start question
How long does it take for a US citizen to get their first passport ?
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
The French Consulate web site says the working holiday visa takes an average of 2 weeks , but 1 week is generally ok . We have an applicant of our <URL> program applying tomorrow , so will let you know the latest processing time . The quickest time this year has been 3 days , but it does vary .
I believe it depends on the issuing authority , but usually about two weeks if you pay the fee to have it expedited . You really ca n't ask for a definitive time , because it also depends on how busy they are . I have friends who paid the fee and got their passports renewed in just under two weeks , but that was a few years ago . If you were born outside of the US and the issuing authority is the US State Department , it can take longer . I was informed of this when I received my daughter 's passport , she was born abroad . If you are out of the country and renewing through your local embassy , give it several months either way . I recently got a renewal in Manila which took just under 10 days , and inquired if that 's the usual amount of time from most embassies and they said yes . But , do n't let paperwork kerfuffles jeopardize your travel plans , or being abroad without a valid passport for a little while . Additionally , if renewing the passport for someone under the age of 16 , bring pictures of them that show their growth from their last passport photo to their appearance now . The consulate might let you slide if the resemblance is uncanny , but be prepared - not having these could cause substantial delays . To be safe , I 'd allow at least two months . You might not be able to expedite it if you 're out of the country , so keep that in mind . Otherwise , pay the extra fee , the worst that can happen is you get it sooner than expected . That is of course if not having it renewed in time might put a dent in your travel plans .
EDITED : I ca n't delete this one as it has been accepted but a newer answer has more details , be sure to check it out ! I saw a journey from Seattle to Pusan in 19 days and from Vancouver to Pusan in 14 days so that should give you a ballpark figure for the time it takes to cross the Pacific ocean nowadays ( albeit in the other direction ) . Here are a few specific trips in the direction you asked about : <URL> in 17 days . <URL> through the Panama canal in 26 days . Both of these start from China because all the ships I could find either go to China before returning to the US and/or do not allow passengers to embark ( but only to disembark ) in South Korea . I do n't know whether that 's a general rule , you would have to contact an agent specialising in this to find out .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
Visa typically go in ( or are used in conjunction with ) a travel document ( that 's actually an explicit requirement in countries I am familiar with , I do n't know Mexican law but official websites suggest it 's the same there , see below ) . So even if you somehow got a visa , that would n't solve the passport problem . But having a green card should exempt you from any Mexican visa requirement so at least the visa should not be an issue , the travel document is . The <URL> indicates that travelers require a " Passport or valid identification and travel that is valid under international law " . If you ca n't get a passport , that would mainly leave the <URL> and the <URL> . In the US , <URL> but not the former ( see comment ) . The US also issues something called a <URL> but as far as I can tell , it 's just some ad hoc document that would allow the person to reenter the US , it might not be " valid under international law " as far as Mexico is concerned . Still , <URL> and <URL> suggest that it is in fact accepted as a travel document by many countries so it could be another solution . If that does not work , yet another solution could be to get a US Re-entry permit ( for the return to the US ) and some form of " laissez-passer " from the Mexican authorities ( no idea if they issue something like that or how much it costs but some countries do ) . Both the refugee travel document and the re-entry permit are listed as WHTI-compliant travel document by major US airlines like <URL> and <URL> so flying should be no problem , provided you have the right to enter Mexico . None of this is particularly cheap or easy , being a refugee typically sucks . Considering that this is a pretty atypical case , I would try to check everything ( including a potential visa requirement in spite of the green card ) with the Mexican authorities as soon as possible .
To find a specific answer , your best bet is to use the <URL> . Tell it exactly when you want to leave , how fast your walk , if you want to minimise walking and/or changes ( eg due to baggage ) , and it 'll give you an answer In general through , from Covent Garden to Heathrow , there are two options . One is slightly quicker , one is a lot cheaper . Option one - board a Heathrow bound Piccadilly Line train . There 's roughly one every 7 minutes for most of the day . Take that all the way to Heathrow , should take just under an hour ( 50-55 minutes once your onboard ) . Then , walk to your terminal , allow about 10 minutes . It 's a zone 1 - zone 6 single , unless you have a travel card . Using an Oyster card , off-peak it 's # 3 for the journey . Alternately , make your way to Paddington Station , then take the Heathrow Express . From Paddington there 's 4 trains an hour , journey time of about 15 minutes to T1/T2/T3 , 20 minutes to T5 , absolute age to T4 because you have to change ... From Covent Garden to Paddington , there 's two options . You can either take a Piccadilly Line train to Piccadilly Circus and change to Bakerloo line . Or , if you do n't have too much luggage , enjoy a pleasant 10 minute walk from Covent Garden down to Charring Cross , then 10 minutes on the Bakerloo up to Paddington . I 'd say that with changes and waits for trains , allow about 30-35 minutes either way from Covent Garden to being at the Heathrow Express platform in Paddington . As such , the Heathrow Express option is n't looking much quicker , but is looking about # 20 more expensive !
Short answer , no -- not really . You could always take a change of clothes ( or at least a different top ) in your carry on and attempt to freshen up in the toilets . Take some wet wipes too . You could also try and find a shower in the city before heading to the airport . Depending what airport you 're in there may be a way to pay for lounge / shower access -- if there 's a transit hotel they let you pay for a room for an hour . However , I really would n't worry about it that much . If you can change at least some of your clothes it 'll make a big difference but your sense of smell is significantly dulled in flight so once you 're airborne I doubt people will notice . And planes are generally pretty smelly anyway ( although you never really notice until you land and you leave ) . If you 're really worried about it try to get a seat with noone beside you ( reserve a seat at the back of the plane , do n't check-in too early , check the seat plan when you check in and change seats if it looks like there 's a better chance of getting an empty seat beside you ) . Also , do n't use the aftershave . Or any other way to mask the scent . Putting on deorderant in the morning before everything is fine . But I 'd much rather sit next to someone who 's organically a bit wiffy than someone who 's tried to douse that in aftershave . The first I 'll get used to after a while , the second is likely to give me a headache and make the flight much less enjoyable . But thanks for worrying about it -- most people do n't ( which is why you probably should n't too much either ) .
I broke down and traveled to to the bus station . They were able to process my refund at the ticket window . I needed to provide ( 1 ) photo id and the ( 2 ) reference number from the confirmation e-mail . The clerk printed the actual ticket , then I provided two signatures to complete the refund . ( I did n't realize a Greyhound bus ticket is NOT a reservation for a seat on the bus on that day like an airline ticket . Even though the confirmation e-mail lists the date and time of the departure and arrival , the ticket was valid for 1 year . I was thinking I need to get the refund before the scheduled date . According to the clerk , I could have processed the refund or used the bus ticket months after I originally planned to leave . )
Although they say <URL> , when I did it , it only took a couple of weeks after submitting my application . At that point I had to make an appointment to go down to the airport for an interview . I was able to find an appointment date easily . The process at the airport took about half an hour and then I was good to go right away .
There is an absolute requirement that either both parents are present when applying for the US passport or a <URL> : Minors under age 16 can not apply for a passport by themselves . Both parents/guardians must appear in person with the minor and provide consent , authorizing passport issuance to the minor . If one parent/guardian is unable to appear in person , then the DS-11 application must be accompanied by a signed , notarized Form DS-3053 : Statement of Consent from the non-applying parent/guardian . If the minor only has one parent/guardian , evidence of sole authority to apply for the minor must be submitted with the application in the form of a : U.S. or foreign birth certificate , Consular Report of Birth Abroad , or adoption decree , listing only the applying parent Court order granting sole legal custody to the applying parent ( unless child 's travel is restricted by that order ) Court order specifically permitting applying parent 's travel with the child Judicial declaration of incompetence of the non-applying parent Death certificate of the non-applying parent Technically their mother can apply for the passport as well but she will need the exact same form and will likely be denied since the birth certificate needs to be presented as well . In addition to this in order for you to leave country a letter of consent from the other parent is required by the airline in order to allow one of the parent 's to leave the country with the minor children . This has been discussed here multiple times <URL> <URL> <URL>
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Making calls or texting on a handheld phone while driving is illegal and unsafe basically everywhere , and you 're entirely within your rights to tell them to stop and , if they do n't , complain to the taxi authorities or even the police . If they 're using a hands-free device though , and vast majority of cabbies are , you 're likely out of luck . This is ( usually ) legal , and dealing with bookings is a critical part of their livelihood : you 're already in the cab , they 're trying to find their next fare Of course , you can always request they stop , and ask to be dropped off right then and there if they do n't . But if you 're in enough of a hurry that you 're in a taxi in the first place , this may not be a realistic alternative .
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
Despite their apparent use of the English language , Canada has the most confusing immigration/border information web site I have ever seen . Fortunately , I have a little experience with this ( having had to be deemed rehabilitated myself , and having friends who had to go through the rehabilitation process ) and the actual processes are quite a bit simpler than the web site makes out . If it 's been less than five years since your probation/parole ended , you 're considered inadmissible to Canada , and ca n't apply for rehabilitation . The temporary resident permit , however , overrides this inadmissibility , usually for a single entry . It can be granted by a consulate , but for Americans who receive one it 's almost always issued at the border , and the Americans involved are usually quite surprised that their old criminal record makes them inadmissible . The guidance states that in order to receive a temporary resident permit , " your need to enter or stay in Canada must outweigh the health or safety risks to Canadian society , as determined by an immigration or a border services officer . " This gives the CBSA officer fairly wide latitude in determining whether to give you one . Your ability to articulate and represent yourself well will be quite helpful here . When you 're issued a temporary resident permit at the border , you will be told how long you are allowed to remain in Canada , and you will be instructed that you must check in with CBSA at the point of departure . Since Canada does not have exit immigration , you have to go out of your way a bit to visit the Canadian port of entry at your border crossing when you leave and have someone there verify your exit from Canada . You will be instructed that if you do n't do this before the end of your allowed stay in Canada on the temporary resident permit , an arrest warrant will be issued for you . You can , if you wish , apply for the temporary resident visa from a consulate . Note that this is the same type of visa that all non-immigrant Canadian visitors receive for tourism , business , transit , or study . But if you have n't been through the rehabilitation process , you are likely to be refused without a very compelling reason for visiting . Going on a cruise probably wo n't qualify . You can also just take your chances and show up at the border . It 's possible your criminal history wo n't be checked and you 'll pass through without a hitch . If you 're on a US passport , passport card or enhanced driver license , it might not even be scanned . But if you 're asked about criminal history , you should go ahead and disclose it , since they can access it anyway , and lying will only make the situation worse . Since you 're merely transiting , you may be allowed to go on with a temporary resident permit . In the worst case , you would be detained and removed back to the US ( which is where you were going anyway ) .
Assuming you have all your required paperwork , the median waiting time is around 5 days at the <URL> office . Also , there 's no <URL> period before you can apply again , so you can re-apply right away . <URL>
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
The answer is indeed no ; no visa or ESTA of any kind needed for a visit of 90 days or less . Here 's what the <URL> has to say : ENTRY / EXIT REQUIREMENTS FOR U.S. CITIZENS : Austria is a party to the Schengen Agreement . As such , U.S. citizens may enter Austria for up to 90 days in any 180-day period for tourist or business purposes without a visa . The passport used should be valid at least for the period of the intended stay ( usually the date of the return flight ) . Anyone intending to stay longer than 90 days must obtain the appropriate visa issued by the Austrian Embassy in the United States . Specifically students attending a college/university in Austria should consult with the Austrian Embassy/Consulate before coming to Austria . Information for students is available from the Austrian agency for international mobility and cooperation in education , science and research ( OeAD ) . Also , technically one can only need an <URL> for the United States , as it 's related to the <URL> . Similar systems in other counties are called something else than " ESTA " .
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
end question
start question
Do you have to declare medications that are controlled substances when travelling via plane internationally ?
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
A B1/B2 visa is good to transit through US airports . I have asked an immigration officer in Dulles airport .
Yes , always declare . If you get caught with it and you do n't declare it , you 'll be marked as a " smuggler " and that will stay on your file for years . Every time you travel , they 'll see that and you 'll be more likely to be stopped . It happened to a few people I know . Also , if you want to apply for Nexus or Global Entry , you 'll probably be denied .
Have you tried phoning the FRRO ( different from the FRO ) to ask them ? Google suggests you may be able to get the FRRO to issue you with an exit visa despite the missing residence permit . Experiences with the FRO seem more hit and miss , but you could always drop in and ask them if you have the time to spare ...
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
No , you do n't ! From the <URL> of American Airlines AAdvantage program : You may accrue mileage only for purchased , eligible , published-fare tickets on qualifying routes used in accordance with all applicable conditions of carriage , tariffs , rules and terms of ticketing and travel . AAdvantage mileage accrual eligibility on airline participant routes is subject to change without notice . and even more clear : Certain airline tickets are not eligible for earning mileage credit . These include , without limitation , the following : all tickets issued as AAdvantage awards or other free ticket promotions including free or reduced rate tickets ; ... As you do n't get new mileage on AA , you most certainly also do n't get any on any other airline .
I have encountered this practice in the past as well . Once I actually talked to them about the reason for it . In that particular hotel , this was encouraged , but not required . They explained that there were two reasons ( for that particular hotel ) : It 's much easier for them to know when the guests are out , so they can go and clean the room . They have had cases when the maid would knock on the door , receive no answer , and open the door with her own key -- just to find the guest still in the room , often in a state rather not expecting anyone to come in ( this did include on a few occasions walking on people having sex ) Minimise the risk of the key being lost/stolen . This reduces the cost in the long run - both in term of the keys/locks needing replacing , but also the liability . In that hotel , the keys were quite distinctive , clearly showing the hotel name and the room number on the key . If a key is lost , whoever finds it can just come in to the hotel , go to the room and steal something - and the guests would hold the hotel liable for the stolen property . The sign at the reception actually stated that the hotel would bear no responsibility for guests ' property left in the room unless the key was handed to the reception upon leaving the hotel .
You do not have to use the body scanner for TSA Pre-Check . Most of the time they do n't even have the body scanner in that line . And when I go to an airport that does n't have a separate TSA pre-check line , like LGA in NY , they give you a card that says TSA pre-check and they send you through the metal detector . Even if you do n't have pre-check you can opt not to go through the scanner , but then they pat you down . If you do n't have it and are thinking about getting it I highly recommend it . Do n't have to take your shoes off or anything . So much easier . Like the old days of traveling . As a side note , when you think about it , you ca n't go through the body scanner if you have pre-check , because you have your shoes on and possibly things in your pockets so the body scan will always fail .
There 's really two different issues here - that of pre-selecting seats , and that of how check-in works with multi-airline itineraries . As far as pre-selecting seats , every airline has different policies . Specifically for SAS , they allow you to pre-select seats only if you has elite status with their frequent flyer program ( Eurobonus Gold ) , or on flights to/from the US regardless of status . Some other airlines will allow it at time of booking , some only allow it if you pay an extra fee , etc. . The specific airlines website should give you the details there . The second issue is checking in with a single connecting itinerary with multiple airlines . Again the exact rules will vary here depending on the airlines involved , but in general you need to check-in with the airline that is flying the first leg of your journey - in this case , SAS . Depending on the agreements between the airlines they may be able to also check you in for any additional flights with other airlines , or they may not be able to - in which case you would normally do so once you arrive at the transfer airport . In these cases seat selection again depends on the specific carriers . eg , if you were flying Emirates followed by SAS then within 22 hours of the flight you would be able to go to the SAS website , select " check-in " , and whilst it will not actually allow you to checkin ( as the first leg is with EK ) it WILL allow you to select seats ! In short , there is no simple or single answer to what you 're asking . Most airlines will publicize their rules for pre-selecting seats on their website - but be sure to read the full conditions to make sure that they apply to you , without needing status or paying any additional fees . Specifically for Cathay Pacific , they DO allow you to select seats in advance , regardless of status . If the website/travel agent you are booking on/with does n't give you the option , you can go to their website , enter your surname and booking number , and select your seats free of charge . British Airways on the other hand only allows you to select seats at the time of check-in ( up to 24 hours before your flight ) .
According to <URL> : If you do n't have photos you will be asked to pay a small fee ( few dollars ) for scanning your photograph from your passport , and placing it onto your visa application form . Another opinion from <URL> : passport photo is/may be required ( although you may be able to pay a US$ 1 " fee " to have this requirement waived ) - recently ( June 2013 ) passport photos were not asked for ( at Friendship Bridge ) .
Information on import duties for purchase of items outside the EU are available <URL> . And a calculator is available <URL> . You are liable for import taxes according to the rules <URL> . Presuming the value of the item is over 150 Euro , you will have to pay duty and tax on the whole value . It appears that a food mixer is code 8509 40 00 00 : Food grinders and mixers ; fruit or vegetable juice extractors This code is subject to 2.2 % duty and then 21 % VAT . The duty is applied first and then VAT is applied on the total of value + duty . If you bring the item back with you in luggage , the duty free allowance is shown <URL> . You do pay taxes for : Products you purchased outside the EU during the trip , if the total value exceeds $ 430 Note that taxes are only due on items you are importing to the EU . Items that you already owned before travelling , and as such have already had appropriate EU taxes paid , do not count towards the alliance or need any taxes paying . Note that if you exceed the duty free limit on a single item , you will <URL> on the whole amount . It is not permitted to divide the value of 1 article over several people . If you take 1 article with a value exceeding $ 430 with you , you will have to pay tax over the whole amount . Examples : - You buy a camera for $ 500 . You must pay tax over the entire amount . - You buy a watch for $ 400 and a fountain pen for $ 55 . The total amount is $ 455 . You only have to pay tax over the fountain pen .
I have yet to see anything similar to Social Flights in this part of the world , and even Social Flights appears to have closed down so I 'm not sure how viable a business model it would be . The only thing close that I 've seen in Australia is <URL> - a site where charter aircraft operators can list flights that would otherwise be flown empty ( eg : the return leg of a one way charter ) . Users of the site can choose to buy a seat or the entire aircraft at a substantially reduced cost . I have seen some of the costs involved in chartering an aircraft to fly trans-Tasman , and unless you require the flexibility of a charter then it 's likely to be more cost effective to book on a commercial flight - there 's plenty of them ( eg : up to 15 flights a day between Sydney and Auckland ) .
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
Two other possible solutions . There is a funny-looking <URL> on sale in several places that can be used to fill the gap between the two joined beds . This makes things a bit more comfortable at the beginning of the process , but it works only until the gap becomes too large . Moreover , it does n't look exactly travel-size . You simply have to increase the friction between the bed legs and the floor . The easiest way is putting something sticky or rubbery below the legs . Be creative ; you can use for instance <URL> , or even duct tape ( is there anything it ca n't fix ? ) .
If the flight number changes , such as in your example of 9W 119 and 9W 76 , they 're different flights ( in fact , nearly always different planes ) and you 'll have to disembark . Technically this is not a stopover at all , it 's a transfer or " layover " . If the flight number stays the same , you 've got a genuine stopover , and there 's no easy way to know what will happen . If the stop 's an hour or more , usually you will have to disembark while they clean the plane . Being allowed to choose to stay on board in these paranoid days seems to be getting more and more unusual , although it does still happen on some regional hopper routes where stops are short ( under an hour ) and only a few pax may get on or off at any given airport . Not being allowed off the plane at all is even more unusual , and is mostly limited to stopovers at military airports ( eg . Kwajalein on the Continental " Island Hopper " between Guam and Hawaii ) , domestic legs without <URL> rights feeding international flights , or those rare routes where they do a pure refueling ( technical ) stop . The last of these are increasingly rare in scheduled aviation , but do still happen on crappy charters flying ( eg . ) Scandinavia-Thailand on old overloaded planes that ca n't fly the full distance in one hop , or even on scheduled flights if there are last-minute equipment substitutions , really bad head winds etc. .
Checked : any one that you like . Carry-on : nothing with a knife/knife-like/blade for <URL> . <URL> , you can generally get away with something that has a blade less than 4 " . Practical : I commuted between Sydney and USA ( Texas ) every 6 - 8 weeks for three years , making dozens of trips . I had a Swiss Army Card with the file attachment removed . About 18 months into traveling , Australian airport security confiscated it , on the basis that the ( very , very small ) scissors blade represented a weapon . All of the <URL> have a blade , scissor , or blade-like implement . Your only option would be to check it or selectively remove items prior to traveling with it as your carry-on . Otherwise you risk having it confiscated . However , there 's at least a decent chance you 'll get away with it .
None of it is particularly scenic . I 've bussed most of those routes , and for the most part - especially on the plains , it 's fairly standard . The BA to Puerto Madryn was like 20 hours . It was striaght and smooth and a very easy bus ride . Most of it is dull though , flat and ordinary , but you can bus overnight and it 's not too bad . I 'd suggest Puerto Madryn to El Calafate by bus as it 's still initially flat , but then as you get closer you get more into the foothills and mountains of Patagonia . It 's a long way down though , and takes several days to get back to Mendoza , so perhaps at that point fly . If , however , you would consider Santiago , or can get a cheap flight to Santiago , the 8 hour bus ride between Mendoza and Santiago in Chile is spectacular - seriously spectacular ! Between Mendoza and Cordoba it 'd be easy and flattish , with more hilly stuff closer to Salta . I flew from BA to Iguazu , but I imagine it 'd be quite nice to see the landscape as it transitions to rainforest . In the end it 'll come down to time , comfort and money . The buses in Argentina are supremely comfortable - often for just a few dollars more you can get a lie-down bed in full-cama / cama-suite class , instead of the tilty-seat semi-cama . Also note that all Aerolineas Argentina flights hub-and-spoke through BA , so from say , El Calafate to Mendoza , you 'll be flying back to BA and then out again to Mendoza . Costs add up . I flew my first couple of legs , then discovered I really enjoyed the bus trips and had the time for them , so continued to bus from then on , all the way up to Colombia .
There do n't appear to be any ski hills in Georgia , however , <URL> . I 've never been to any of them , though .
For contingent purposes , I always carry the following , in no particular order : Printed copies of my passport and visas ( also electronically on my mobile and laptop ) Printed and electronic copy of my travel itinerary ( I use TripIt on my mobile , and it 's always there anyway ) . Printed copy of my accommodation confirmation ( if available ) Visa-supporting travelling documents ( e.g. invitation letter ) Additional means of identification -- be it driving license or national ID card -- in case something happens to your passport . At the very least , your embassy would like to see these . I also store encrypted electronic copies of the most important travelling documents on a cloud storage service , e.g. Dropbox .
I 've just been in Rovaniemi , Finland a couple of weeks ago . It 's currently impossible to see the aurora as the 24-hour day is in place ; obviously you need a dark sky to see it . However , Rovaniemi is just by the Arctic circle , is easy to get to ( fly or train from Helsinki overnight ) , and is also the home of Santa Claus ! I stayed at the Borealis Guesthouse , which should give you a clue as to what is visible from there :) Best times are when it 's dark ( obviously ) , so when there 's a new moon is your best bet - the least light in the sky . Check that first for dates . Secondly , if you have the ability to book last minute , you can sign up on twitter for Aurora storm alerts . However this is infeasible for most , given flight costs and so on . <URL> claims to see the auroras most nights , although of course it 's totally weather and solar activity dependent - you can never guarantee it . ONE MORE option however , does practically guarantee sightings . <URL> in Greenland offers a 99 % chance of seeing auroras between November and March , due to its very stable weather conditions . It 's where I 'm planning on going next year . Good luck !
end question
start question
Delay due to strikes - can you claim on the SNCF Garantie Ponctualité ?
In practice , you 're supposed to enter the details of your train on the site you linked to and you will see if you are entitled to any compensation ( see the line " droit à une compensation " ) . I just tried a train that was not running last week and the answer was " étude personnalisée " , which implies something like " on a case-by-case basis " . The reason for that is that the train was not late , it was cancelled ... <URL> so that the garantie apparently does not apply . Now , if you suffered a delay on the other train ( compared to its schedule , not that of your original train ) , then you might still get something . But even if the train was actually late , the <URL> also includes some warning about the SNCF reserving the right to " adapt " this program in " exceptional circumstances " so I would n't hold my breath . Note that if you are stuck somewhere because of irregular operations , independently of any compensation for the delay , you can sometimes request a " bon de prise en charge pour un hôtel " at the station . I do n't know if they hand those out during a strike but it 's something to try ( probably not possible afterwards , though ) .
It depends on who is at fault for you not being able to claim . If it is the airline 's fault , so they did n't load the bags / bags got lost / bags did n't make a connection etc , you must speak to the airline staff or their ground handler before leaving the baggage hall . They will get you to fill out a form about your bag ( size , colour , make , identifying features etc , plus your details ) . The form will include ( in almost all countries ) a customs waiver/release . When your bag is eventually found / turns up , the airline will take the bag through customs ( assuming customs do n't find something in the bag of interest ... ) , then get the bag to you . However , if it 's not the airlines fault , or you left the baggage hall without completing the missing baggage form , or if customs have taken an interest in your delayed bag , you first need to speak to the airline staff at the airport or their ground handler . ( Note - likely not airline customer services , they probably wo n't know , usually needs to be people actually at the airport in question ) . They will let you know where to go , and what times you can arrive ( it may only be possible at some times of the day ) Once you 're at the airport , you then contact the baggage staff ( maybe via the airport information desk , maybe by phoning them , maybe by using a special phone , maybe by going to a landside desk and having the phone someone , it varies - that 's why you need to speak to someone before getting to the airport ! ) . You 'll then be escorted to airside , often through a staff security channel . You will almost certainly need photo ID , often a passport , and your details will likely be recorded in a log somewhere . Once airside in the baggage hall , you 'll head to the baggage queries desk for your airline or their ground handler , the place you 'd go to report missing bags . They will likely want your baggage receipt tags ( the bits stuck to your passport or boarding pass at checkin ) . They will then go and get your bag , often from a locked storage area somewhere airside . You 'll sign some paperwork , and if it 's your fault possibly pay a storage fee/fine . You and your bag then exit through customs , who quite possibly will pay more attention to you and your bag than they normally would for a typical traveller , so allow extra time ! . The easiest way to avoid all of this faff is to ensure you either collect all your bags on arrival ( if they 're there ) , or speak with the airline / handling agents before leaving the baggage hall to properly report any missing/delayed luggage + fill out the appropriate forms then !
Promoting <URL> 's comment to an answer ... It 's also on <URL> ! If you do as I did , and select your region from the area I 've labelled as # 2 , it will tell you about the general pattern for trains in your region . This is what tells you roughly how many trains will run on each line on a given day in the strike Alternately , if you look at the large purple/pink box I 've labelled # 1 , assuming you do n't somehow miss it as I first did ... You 'll find the interface to look up the details for a given train , or a given route . Type in the details of the service ( s ) you want , and if it comes up with , it 's all good ! means " irregular operations " and you should check if and when the train calls at your start and stop stations . means " extra stop " , because another train going to this station has been cancelled . Finally , means you 're out of luck , and need to head to the station to get re-booked onto another service . As an example , assuming no changes between now and midday tomorrow , in the screenshot below the people going to Paris ( 5th in the list ) or Boulogne ( 7th ) are out of luck , Rue ( 4th ) are lucky as there 's an additional service , and the remaining the remaining 6 trains are ( currently ) running to time
Sesame Street is currently filmed at the <URL> in Queens , which does not offer public tours ( though the <URL> is open to the public and located on the campus ) . According to the <URL> , Sesame Street is not filmed in front of a live studio audience and the set is not able to accommodate guests . There is a Sesame Street theme park called <URL> in Langhorne , Pennsylvania , about midway between Philadelphia and New York ( near Trenton , New Jersey ) , owned and operated by Sea World . Now , that is only for the original American version of Sesame Street . There are many different versions internationally , and some of those filming locations may allow visitors .
You should consult your country 's travel advisories . All countries maintain such advisories , usually the state department is responsible for them . For example here is <URL> . Currently they are not advising against travel , just urging people to be cautious . Similarly the <URL> does not advice against travel but does admonish travelers to avoid any demonstrations . So , as things stand it is probably safe enough as long as you avoid any demonstrations and keep up with the local news . It is worth keeping an eye on these advisories . If they begin to advice against travel you may be able to have the airline refund your tickets or change them . I had a flight to Thailand booked back in 2010 when they had some riots , the airline ( Air Asia ) allowed me to change my destination , at no cost , to Malaysia .
No . The only way to get from one terminal to another is to exit the terminal and take the air train or a shuttle bus . A possible exception to this is for Delta , which operates in Terminals 2 and 4 . They apparently have a bus that connects the airside areas of these terminals . See the map here : <URL> Indications are that this bus will disappear at some point , presumably when construction of a direct link between the two areas has been completed .
You can do so at the <URL> , but you will get the money back immediately only if there is less than 500 HKD on the card and the card is not damaged . There are several such <URL> : At the airport , the Customer Service Centres can be found in the " buffer halls " , after baggage reclaim and before entering the arrival hall , also in the arrival hall areas A &amp; B and on the Airport Express departure platform ( Terminal 1 ) and arrival platform ( Terminal 2 side ) . The first one mentioned is when you arrive and likely the best to get a new card on arrival by airplane in HKG . There are some counters after the customs control where you can book hotels before you meet people waiting for you outside . The second one mentioned are in the huge arrival hall where you will find tons of restaurants , people waiting etc. . I do not recommend this one since the hall is really too big to find something here , specially if you are carrying luggage around with you . The last one are located where you will need them when you leave HKG , you will see them just when you step out of the train .
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
The restrictions made by the Congress on those possessing Iranian nationality are only to the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . Canada is not a participant in the Visa Waiver Program . Canadians entering the US on Canadian passports do not do so under the VWP . I do not believe your parents will be affected by these changes . <URL>
For some delays , the <URL> will list the delay for the service , and estimated revised arrival times . However , that does n't always get updated as often as you might like ... For Eurostars still in the UK , it 's possible to stalk them with quite some accuracy on <URL> . If you search for departures from <URL> , find your Eurostar , then pick More details , you can get a display <URL> showing delays at 20-odd monitoring points on the way to the tunnel , eg <URL> For Eurostars in France , you ca n't get that level of timing information WRT actual vs planned , at least as far as I 'm aware . What you can do is follow the train 's realtime position on the <URL> ( zoom in on northern France ) , eg <URL> That will at least give you a rough guide of delays , eg if your train is supposed to be in Brussels in 5 minutes and is showing as somewhere near Calais , you 'll know it 's quite late ... I 'm not aware of any similar realtime train-stalking systems for Belgium , nor for in the Channel Tunnel itself . For those situations , you can try asking the staff in the Buffet ( coaches 6 and 13 ) , who can look things up if they 're not too busy .
<URL> : Reasons for inadmissibility Note : This is only a guide . A Canadian immigration officer will decide if you can enter Canada when you apply for a visa , an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , or when you arrive at a port of entry . A person may be denied a visa , or an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , refused entry to , or removed from Canada on any of these grounds : security reasons , including espionage subversion ( attempts to overthrow a government , etc. ) violence or terrorism , or membership in an organization involved in any of these human or international rights violations , including war crimes crimes against humanity being a senior official in a government engaged in gross human rights violations or subject to international sanctions committing a serious crime that would be punishable by a maximum prison term of at least 10 years in Canada Footnote 1 having been convicted of a crime , including driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol Footnote 1 organized crime , including membership in an organization that takes part in organized criminal activity , people smuggling or money laundering health grounds -- if their condition is likely to : endanger public health or public safety , or cause excessive demands on health or social services ( some exceptions exist Footnote 2 Footnote 3 ) financial reasons -- if they are unable or unwilling to support themselves and their family members misrepresentation , which includes providing false information or withholding information directly related to decisions made under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act ( IRPA ) failure to comply with any provision of IRPA Footnote 4 or having an inadmissible family member . However , the big disclaimer at the top says that this list is just a guide , and that your admissibility depends exclusively on what the immigration officer handling your case decides . In addition , <URL> of the agreement you linked specifically says that the two countries share information with the purpose of enforcing immigration laws in their respective countries : The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the administration and enforcement of the Parties ' respective immigration laws by : using Information in order to enforce or administer the immigration laws of the Parties ; furthering the prevention , investigation , or punishment of acts that would constitute a crime rendering a National of a Third Country inadmissible or removable under the immigration laws of the Party providing the Information ; or facilitating the Parties ' adjudication of an application for a visa , admission , or other immigration benefit , or determination of whether an individual is to be ordered removed by providing Information regarding the admissibility of the individual . This is to say that Canada can inquire , and if so will be informed , about the US ban . You admissibility will therefore depend solely on the immigration officer 's decision based on all the information they have . They will know what , when , why , and how you overstayed . It goes without saying that one should not omit this information in one 's application . Now , overstaying in a country is generally a red flag when applying for a visa in another country . A previous overstay in any countries makes you immediately untrustworthy , and casts serious doubts about your intentions of actually leaving Canada . Therefore , the answer to whether being banned in the US renders you inadmissible in Canada is likely to be yes .
I intended to write a comment , but do n't see the link to make one so I 'm writing this as an answer instead . This question actually seems like an umbrella topic concerning RV parking facilities in different provinces of Canada . I 've been doing a little research on the same topic since I 've similar plans . Me and my friends are occupied with the financial aspects of it though . This <URL> and this <URL> might be of help to you .
No This is specified in the <URL> . Specifically ( emphasis mine ) , section 2.3.2 : For each actually flown segment of a fully paid scheduled flight operated by Lufthansa , a joint operator or a Miles &amp; More partner company , the member 's account will be credited with miles -- subject to Sections 2.3.6 and 2.3.7 . and section 2.3.6 : Any mileage credit is also excluded for unused , reimbursed , lapsed or unlawfully obtained documents ( tickets , coupons , etc. ) . The same applies in other cases of non-utilization or the refund of the service qualifying for earning miles .
Generally NO . There are some legitimate exceptions and general sneakiness but normally no . You see an answer on a <URL> on the same question . There are also <URL> that can be issued by the airlines in some cases . More then likely you do n't qualify for either . More links specifically on Heathrow <URL>
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
The Wrekin in Shropshire ... Shropshire , Staffordshire , Lancashire , Gloucestershire , West Midlands , with Greater Manchester County if you count it as distinct from Lancashire . The Wrekin / ˈriːkɨn / is a hill in east Shropshire , England . It is located some 7 km ( 4.3 mi ) west of Telford , on the border between the unitary authorities of Shropshire and Telford and Wrekin . Rising to a height of 407 metres ( 1,335 ft ) above the Shropshire Plain , it is a prominent and well-known landmark , signalling the entrance to Shropshire for travelers westbound on the M54 motorway . [ 1 ] The Wrekin is contained within the northern panhandle of the Shropshire Hills AONB . The hill is popular with walkers and tourists and offers good views of Shropshire . It can be seen well into Staffordshire and the Black Country , and even as far as the Beetham Tower in Manchester , Winter Hill in Lancashire and Cleeve Hill in Gloucestershire . <URL> Traditionally ( i.e. , as a matter of local folklore ) , the peak gives views of 17 counties , but they are not authoritatively enumerated like the Wiki ... Like the Snowdon claim , the seventeen counties assertion has appeared in numerous guidebooks and magazine articles since 1860 and persists up to the present day . On the website answerbank ( an online version of the traditional Notes and Queries format ; see www.theanswerbank.co.uk ) one contributor in June 2008 posed the question ' What are the seventeen counties that can be seen from the Wrekin in Shropshire ? ' . <URL>
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
Being myself insured in the Netherlands , I am not 100 % sure how it works for non-residents but the way health care is structured here is that there is no national health service but many independent providers and several private insurers . However , prices and insurance coverage are regulated . In practice , general practitioner ( huisarts ) consultations are free at the point of use ( billed directly to the insurer ) but prescriptions and many other things are paid by the patient , at least in part . As far as I know , you should always try to consult a GP first and he or she will refer you to a specialist or hospital if needed . Regarding the way you should use the EHIC , the best thing is to check the official app ( <URL> or <URL> ) and always show the card whenever you seek health care . Apparently , one insurer , Agis , is <URL> ( the English-language version of the website is apparently unavailable but there is a link to a PDF brochure in English at the bottom of the page ) . In a nutshell , the EHIC provides you with a coverage equivalent to the " basic insurance " defined in the law so that a GP consultation should be free and other health care providers should be able to claim insured costs directly from Agis , which would basically acts as your insurer in the Netherlands . If for some reasons some health care provider can not take care of it directly , you might need to pay everything first and lodge a claim with Agis at the following address to get ( part of ) the money back : You will need to fill in the form provided on the website and send a copy of the bill , a copy of your EHIC and the IBAN number from your bank account . They also have a specific email and telephone number for international matters , they might be able to provide more details on what you should expect to pay should you need to be hospitalized : Finally , if everything else fails , you can still try to contact your insurance or health care administration in your country of residence . You should expect some paperwork and delays but they might still be able to reimburse some things . Waiting to be back and seeking reimbursement is not how the system is supposed to work so there might be difficulties but it 's not completely impossible either . Given that Dutch patients have deductibles ( eigen risico ) and a personal contribution to some expenses , you might have to cover part of the costs in any case . The EU app also suggests that some costs not covered in the Netherlands might still be claimed in your home country ( specifically dental care if you are covered for it ) .
According to <URL> : If you do n't have photos you will be asked to pay a small fee ( few dollars ) for scanning your photograph from your passport , and placing it onto your visa application form . Another opinion from <URL> : passport photo is/may be required ( although you may be able to pay a US$ 1 " fee " to have this requirement waived ) - recently ( June 2013 ) passport photos were not asked for ( at Friendship Bridge ) .
TSA Allows Frozen Liquids Only if they Are Frozen Solid TSA allows frozen liquids if and only if they are presented frozen solid to security checks . This is in my opinion a fairly sneaky way to say " good luck with that " , seeing as <URL> . You can always try to find a liquid that presents itself in solid state at room temperature , and try to bring that through security . Searching for on the <URL> yields the following result : Search Results For : ice ! Special Instructions Frozen liquid items are allowed through the checkpoint as long as they are frozen solid when presented for screening . If frozen liquid items are partially melted , slushy , or have any liquid at the bottom of the container , they must meet 3-1-1 liquids requirements . If the frozen item is packed with ice or ice packs in a cooler or other container , the ice or ice packs must be completely frozen when brought through screening . If the ice or ice packs are partially melted and have any liquid at the bottom of the container , they will not be permitted . Medically necessary liquids may be accompanied by ice packs , but we ask that you declare these items to a security officer for inspection . You can pack frozen perishables in your carry-on or checked baggage in dry ice . The FAA limits you to five pounds of dry ice that is properly packaged ( the package is vented ) . The 3-1-1 rule for liquids , aerosols and gels in carry-ons is as follows : containers must be 3.4 ounces or less ; stored in a 1 quart/liter zip-top bag ; 1 zip-top bag per person . Larger amounts of non-medicinal liquids , gels , and aerosols must be placed in checked baggage . If the liquid is considered a hazardous material that is permitted onboard an aircraft , it is still subject to the 3-1-1 limitations . Many questions arise on whether an item is hazardous material and what requirements must be met to take it on an aircraft . The Pipeline Hazardous Material Safety Administration ( PHMSA ) at 1-800-467-4922 or the aircraft operator on which you are flying can assist you with your questions concerning hazardous material . Even if an item is generally permitted , it may be subject to additional screening or not allowed through the checkpoint if it triggers an alarm during the screening process , appears to have been tampered with , or poses other security concerns . The final decision rests with TSA on whether to allow any items on the plane . Australia Does Not Allow Frozen Liquids <URL> , for a liquid , aerosol or gel ( LAG ) to be considered a solid , it must present itself in this state at room temperature . Therefore , frozen liquids , i.e. liquids that are indeed liquid at room temperature , are still subject to the 100ml rule . Quoting from the linked site ( empasis mine ) : All liquids , aerosols and gels ( LAGs ) are covered by the quantity restrictions . LAGs is defined as : a substance that is a liquid when at room temperature ; an aerosol ; a gel ; a cream ; or a paste . If you are unsure whether an item falls within the restrictions , pack it in your checked baggage . New Zealand Does Not Allow Frozen Liquids Similarly as to Australian regulations , <URL> say that if the substance presents itself in liquid , gel or aerosol for at room temperature , then it is subject to the 100ml rule . Quoting from the linked website ( emphasis mine ) : What type of liquids , aerosols and gels do these measures cover ? These measures apply to any items that can be poured , sprayed or smeared or melt at room temperature . This includes , but is not limited , to : water and other drinks , soups , syrups , jams , stews , sauces and pastes foods in sauces or containing a high liquid content creams or ointments - including face creams , foundation , sunblock , insect repellent perfumes roll-on deodorants sprays - including antiperspirant and hair sprays gels - including hair , shaving and shower gels contents of pressurised containers - including shaving foam pastes - including toothpastes waxy substances - including hair wax liquid solid mixtures - including lipsticks , face compacts and blushers mascara and liquid eyeliner and lip gloss and lip balm liquid soaps fluid-filled cigarette lighters . These or similar items can only be taken in carry-on baggage on board aircraft in containers of 100ml or less , with all containers fitting into the resealable transparent 1 litre plastic bag . This bag must then be presented separately at the security screening point . Canadian CATSA/ACSTA Does Not Allow Frozen Liquid Food Items <URL> mentions solely frozen food items , stating that solid food is food that is normally solid at room temperature . Anything else is subject to the 100ml rule , even if frozen . Quoting from the linked website ( emphasis partially mine ) : Liquids/Food Beverages : Drink or discard any beverages in containers of more than 100 ml before you get to security screening checkpoint . This includes water
end question
start question
How do I get money back for my foreign coins ?
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
There is a minimum checkin time for Eurostar trains , which is generally 30 minutes before departure ( see below for details ) , but it does vary . Before listing the times , it 's worth thinking a little bit about how the Eurostar checkin process works , as that explains why it is as it is . When you get to the station , you need to checkin with your ticket , either using the automated ticket gates , or with one of the checkin counters ( normally only if you have a problem ) . The deadline is for going through here . After that , there 's normally a small queue ( varies with the number of services due out ) before the security screening . You can take a <URL> , but there are still <URL> . Your bags get x-ray 'd , you go through a metal detector , then you queue up again for the juxtaposed border controls . You show your passport , and clear immigration for the country you 're going to ( either France of the UK , depending on direction ) . After that , you 're into the waiting area before boarding ( and frequent travellers can visit the lounge ) Boarding of Eurostar trains normally begins 20 minutes before departure , and they tend to close the doors a minute or two before the scheduled departure time so they can leave on time . For the ski trains , and summer Avignon service to the south of France , boarding starts earlier , often 35 minutes before . For most people , on most services , the <URL> . If you 're travelling on a Business Premier ticket ( the really expensive ones ) , or you have a Eurostar Carte Blanche frequent traveller card ( lots of journeys in a year ) , then the minumum checkin is 10 minutes before . However , as you do still need to clear security and immigration , you 're probably going to have to run to the train , and there wo n't be time to go in the lounge with only 10 minutes , so getting there earlier is probably advised , especially at busy times ! For the long distance services to Avignon and the Ski Trains , the minimum checkin is 1 hour ( 60 minutes ) before departure . Boarding starts earlier for these , and most people have more luggage , so it all takes a bit longer hence the extra time . Anyone with <URL> needs to add 30 minutes extra . The minimum checkin enforcement varies a little bit . If it 's quiet , you may get away with 25 minutes , but that 's about it . At a very quiet time , you can clear security an immigration in about 5 minutes , but at busy times with lots of queuing it 'll take longer . At a busy time , they tend to be pretty strict !
Try a credit union . Many of them boast surcharge-free ATMs . Lots of smaller banks do n't collect surcharges either . Those that do n't often will have a big sign saying so near the ATM . The Credit Union National Association , the Independent Community Bankers Association and The Co-Op Network all have ATM locators on their Web sites . Ask for cash-back when you use your ATM card at a grocery store . This service is free at many stores . If you 're going through San Francisco , residents recently voted to ban ATM fees . So grab some cash while you 're there ;) <URL> Of course this means there are still SOME out there ! ( From same survey ) the average fee is $ 2.33 . So at the least , try and beat that target ;)
Companies like Western Union ( they 're the biggest and because of the Nigerian scams the most notorious ) exist that allow people to wire cash to other countries . No actual cash is ever transferred of course , it 's these days all electronic :) A person in country A deposits an amount of money with the company , say $ 150 , and lists a recipient in another country . After taking a percentage ( or a fixed fee ) the recipient can then go to the company 's office the money has been " transferred " to and pick it up . If there 's a massive imbalance between offices , no doubt electronic transfers take care of shoring up the actual bank balances of the various national subsidiaries of these global entities . Used to be post offices around the world would cooperate to do much the same , they still may .
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
I was initially sceptical that this was a common problem as I did n't encounter it the two times I went there . Then I did some research and you 're definitely not alone . There are a few blogs on this matter that have tried to give their thoughts on the subject . <URL> - looking at the 1 sole coins . <URL> - how some vendors just seem wary but can be convinced your coins are actually fine <URL> - this actually includes several tips on how to identify the fake money , which I 'll list below , but wanted to link to for reference sake . This page also includes a <URL> this . For coins The weight should be heavy . After handling Peruvian coins for a while you will be able to tell if a coin is lighter than it should be The coin should be round and well-formed The color should be a light and shiny silver and for 2 and 5 soles , light and shiny gold The coin should be smooth without pock marks or rough parts The engraving should be smooth and detailed For notes The color of the number ( whether 10 , 20 , 50 , 100 or 200 soles ) should change when you wave the bill back and forth . It will go from a light purple to a dark purple or blue The paper should be thick and of quality stock . You can pull opposite sides of the bill to tell the thickness . After having Peruvian money for a while , you will be able to tell the proper quality The portrait etching should be intricate , with no detail left out . The quality of the carving is key There should be a shadow of the portrait when you hold it up to the light
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
You should apply to the <URL> or the <URL> in Rotterdam . Here is the <URL> . You may get a visa ( tourist card ) also through your travel agency , even if you do not plan your trip via the agency .
Assuming you are flying on a regular scheduled flight ( clearly , you are ) , it is always included in the final price of the ticket . It is paid for by the operator ( i.e. the airline ) . Source : <URL> .
According to the web site of the <URL> , either a SSN or an alien identification card is required : Social Security Number : The disclosure of your social security number or alien identification number is required to obtain SC hunting and fishing licenses . This complies with SC Code of Laws Section 63-14-1080 and Federal law 42 USCA 666 ( a ) ( 13 ) , which requires a licensing agency to provide this information to the Child Support Enforcement Unit of the Department of Social Services to establish , modify and enforce child support orders . There is a <URL> for mail-in applications , but it requests a US address . It is unclear to me whether non-resident licenses are available only to US residents ( who live outside of SC ) , or to anyone , including US non-residents , but it appears ( based on the above quote about US Federal Law , and the application form ) that a licence likely is not available to non-US residents . To be sure , you may need to contact the office directly . Another option might be to find a private lake/pond where you can fish without a license .
I found it hard enough finding an ATM in Vancouver that would even ACCEPT my card ( or my friend 's ) . However , keep an eye out for HSBC ATMs , they seemed to be the ones guaranteed to take both my UK and New Zealand credit/debit cards . Failing that , any 7-11 never failed to accept my cards . And yes , some do charge extra fees . ( This was last month - was in Vancouver around the beginning of October . )
There 's at least two separate facets to consider here . Legally , you 're in the clear . Restrictions covering <URL> and <URL> only require you to declare amounts exceeding EUR 10,000 . Norway , however , being outside the EU , <URL> ( ~ EUR 2,800 at time of writing ) or face a 20 % penalty , although it 's a little unclear to me where/how exactly you 're supposed to declare if coming from a fellow Schengen country . Safety is a bigger concern , as carrying around EUR 9,000 just seems like a really bad idea . The right thing to do would be to deposit it at a Latvian bank , declare its origin and pay any applicable taxes , and then you can transfer it easily to other countries , withdraw it from ATMs , use it to pay credit card bills , etc. . If you wish to stick to plain old cash , then <URL> and <URL> have some advice for you , although most of it boils down to " do n't " . In short , divide your money in multiple places , preferably directly on your body but in unobvious places ( hidden pockets in pants , etc ) -- this way you minimize the risk of losing them through both theft and violent robbery . The latter is n't a huge concern in Sweden or Norway , although one of the three times somebody has tried to pickpocket me did occur in Stockholm 's T-Centralen ...
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
It varies depending on the airline . First , they may not be unsold right now . Just because a seat has n't been selected does n't mean a ticket has n't been bought . There are tools that can show you how many tickets have been sold in each fare class , and I have seen many times that all the business-class tickets are sold , yet only 20 or 30 % of the seats are marked occupied on seat maps . ( It 's pretty normal for economy to be oversold , too . ) Second , some airlines allow their frequent fliers to upgrade into business class , using some sort of certificates or points schemes . These upgrades may happen weeks or days in advance , or at the gate when the flight is about to leave . Third , some airlines allow anyone to buy a " last minute upgrade " - for about $ 100 for each hour of flight time , in my experience - when checking in online or at the gate . Finally , some airlines will upgrade some passengers ( chosen in theory according to status as a frequent flier , early check in , and fare class of original ticket , but at some airlines lazily chosen from among less deserving non status late checkins because it 's the easiest way to handle them ) for no charge . This is called an Operational Upgrade or Op Up . On a recent flight home from Seattle to Toronto I was op-upped for weight and balance reasons ( small plane , needed more people at the front ) which was a pleasant surprise . Some US airlines are well known for never sending out an empty business-class seat , moving up as many people as they can to fill business class . Other airlines , especially those based in the Middle East , believe if they do that , their frequent fliers would never buy business class , so they 'll fly out with empty seats up front rather than " devalue " the product by giving it away free unless they have an operational reason for doing so . My experience is that op-upping a frequent flier to free up a seat for someone who would otherwise be turned away ( overbooked flight ) does happen throughout the world , but that with the exception of US-based airlines , business class is quite often not full .
Fot his specific strike , my answer is too late , but since the Belgian railways are prone for strikes ( sometimes even instant strikes ) I can still answer . The bus connection google mentions is not worth a try , especially if there are strikes . You mention 3 connections , meaning in practice your travel time will be doubled due to at least one missed connection . In my opinion there are three options . Enjoy brussels during the strike For the adventurous and sportive traveler buying a bike might be a good solution . It is only 54 kilometers and the scenery is worth it . Buying a bike at shops like the Hema or Decathlon it is definitely cheaper then renting a car . Google maps will give you <URL> Send a tweet with the hashtags #nmbs and #staking and ask for either a hitchhike or others to share in the costs for renting a car or a taxi . I am using this approach a lot in similar situation and I am always surprised how well that works .
end question
start question
I have ESTA . Do I need a visa for Costa Rica ?
This is a curious case which will need to be addressed by the nearest Costa Rican Consulate . Costa Rica provides a <URL> for people who have a visa with at least one day validity stamped in their passport . This is the same text that exists for the holders of the US Student ( F , J ) or work ( H , G , etc ) visas ( sorry ca n't copy the exact text for some reason ) . Now with that said the question becomes what exactly stamped means in this context since most <URL> actually refers to something entirely different than an actual stamp . You will not have one like this when you under under US Visa Waiver program . So whether or not the border control in Costa Rica will accept the arrival stamp as a valid US visa is still to be determined but I would suggest you do n't take that chance and get a Visa from Costa Rica though I am not sure who is currently representing Costa Rican interests in Taiwan since the Embassy was closed in 2007 . Unless you already have valid visas for other waiver destinations like Schengen or Japan .
Living in Costa Rica is obviously really , really cheap . Immigration will accept a wallet full of Euros as " proof of sufficient funds " - any decent bank will have no problem changing Euros , US Dollars or Pounds for Colones . Yuan , Rials , Baht and other currencies not printed in the roman alphabet are less likely . The taxi driver wo n't take Euros , but the money exchange counter at any international airport serving Central America can give you enough local money to get you through the weekend . At the usual extortionary rates of course . You could always take a couple of hundred US dollars , but get $ 10s or $ 20s . US$ 100 are frequently counterfeited , and in that part of the world will likely set off the drug detector .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
I would not only recommend sunglasses , but also suncream and clothes that protect you from the sunlight . UV radiation is generally lower during the winter months , but snow reflection can double your overall exposure , especially at high altitude .
No , you do n't need local currency . Istanbul Atatürk is a massive transit airport ( <URL> in 2013 ) , and virtually all shops are more than happy to accept credit cards . Some will even take euros , but the exchange rate will not be in your favor .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
Unless you have n't paid the fine and now have a warrant outstanding I would n't worry about it . Traffic offenses are only a concern if you have committed something serious like a vehicular manslaughter or if you basically ignored the summons or mandatory court appearance and now have a warrant issued for your arrest . <URL> but also provides you with the link to the definitinon of crimes for which your <URL> . The list is too big to copy here but the only thing that involves vehicles is in fact manslaughter : Involuntary , where the statute requires proof of recklessness , which is defined as the awareness and conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustified risk which constitutes a gross deviation from the standard that a reasonable person would observe in the situation . A conviction for the statutory offense of vehicular homicide or other involuntary manslaughter that only requires a showing of negligence will not involve moral turpitude even if it appears the defendant in fact acted recklessly
It should be okay for you to apply for ESTA , because the visa you hold is not a B-1 or B-2 visa . If you were to travel to the United States for purposes of tourism , or business purposes unrelated to the visa you now hold , you would in fact be required to apply for ESTA or for a B visa . ( I 'm not sure , however , what will happen if you can check in using your ESTA , and subsequently enter using the visa . ) For example , at <URL> , you can see that for an E-2 visa " you must be coming to the United States to develop and direct the enterprise . " See also at <URL> : Q : What if a traveler has a current , valid visa ? A : Individuals who possess a valid visa will still be able to travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose for which it was issued . Individuals traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA authorization . This implies that you can apply for ESTA to travel to the United States for a purpose other than one for which your valid visa was issued . You also express concern about whether you might have trouble when entering the United States , since you will have been indicated on the carrier 's passenger list as a VWP traveler , but you will be presenting a visa at entry . I doubt that you will have trouble because of it . I can think of two reasons you might : Applying for ESTA with no intention of using the VWP Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations , section 217.5 ( a ) says Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) must , within the time specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , receive a travel authorization ... You might therefore run into trouble because you do n't actually intend to travel to the US under the VWP . But it does n't actually say that those who do n't intend to travel can not receive the authorization . Furthermore , CBP notes that people can apply for ESTA <URL> . Checking in with ESTA and entering with a visa Here , I can only speculate , but I guess that the carrier is more likely to get in trouble for this than you are . You could approach the ground staff at the airport to correct your record with information about your visa , but this would defeat your apparent purpose of getting on the plane quickly and easily .
Although I agree 35L can be enough if you only intend to carry two changes of clothes and some small gear , I 'm not sure you 'll be comfortable enough having most of your things hanging outside your backpack ( and this will be the case for at least your tent , your sleeping mat - either on top or bottom of your bag - , and maybe your stove and tins . Even your shoes , if it 's summer ) . You can put your camera , your first aid kit ( bring one ! ) and your clothes inside . You 'll still be fine with a 35L , but if you are also bringing food and water you might consider a 50L . It really depends on what sort of trip you are planning , what places you want to visit and what 's available around those . You 'll still have to carry whatever you chose to bring , but backpacks do n't have much weight by themselves so a bigger one is not that costly .
In short the answer is yes you do need a separate visa for Belarus . Your Russian Student Visa does n't allow you to enter Belarus . The reason that it has the names of both countries is because the form they use is exactly the same . From the <URL> : Although Russia and Belarus use the same migration card , travelers should be aware that each country maintains its own visa regime . U.S. citizens wishing to travel to both nations must apply for two separate visas . A traveler entering Russia directly from Belarus is not required to obtain a new migration card , but at his or her option may do so if blank ones are available at the time of entry .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
Yes , you do need one . The US does n't share the concept of " in international transit " that a lot of other countries have . When you step off a plane on US soil [ * ] , you must clear US customs and immigration . Only then can you proceed to board your next flight . The DHS have an entry about this in their <URL> : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require travel authorization if they are only transiting the United States in route to another country ? Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require either a travel authorization or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the travel authorization application in ESTA , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination location in the address lines in the Address While In The United States field on the application . . [ * ] In a few places ( such as Canada an Ireland ) , they have juxtaposed border controls and you end up clearing US customs and immigration before boarding the plane . Either way , you still need to clear immigration on an international connection .
A towel is required . And it has to be large enough . You are supposed to sit or to lie on it . One towel can be enough . However , a second towel and/or a bathrobe can be useful too , when you are relaxing outside the sauna . In most of the saunas you can rent towels and bathrobes . If 80x60 refer to centimeters , than it 's not enough . You have to fit on the towel , as shown here : However , sitting like this wo n't be accepted . You will then be kindly reminded to put your feet on the towel :
I would say whether to bring it is a maybe . In the cities ( at least in Costa Rica , I 'm not familiar with Panama ) , there are often paved sidewalks , and if you 're planning on walking longer distances , you may not want to carry your 3 year old when he/she gets tired of walking . That said , sidewalks in Costa Rica are not generally built with ADA accessibility in mind and are not going to be as easy to navigate as streets in countries like the US . There may be random obstacles like stairs , steps , or drainage ditches in the middle of the sidewalk , as well as sidewalks that may be narrow at times , so expect to do some stroller-lifting from time to time , and be careful not to drive the stroller off the edge of the sidewalk , some sidewalks are as much as a foot high ! In smaller towns , away from metro areas , you may expect to find varying condition of pavement , if it exists at all , so unless you have an all-terrain stroller with suspension and large wheels , you may find the ruts and bumps too jarring for your kids liking , and they may not want to ride in the stroller . So overall , a stroller is n't ideal in those areas , but whether you 'd want to bring one anyway depends on how much your older child follows directions like stay out of the road and whether you would be overly tired if you just relied on carriers and whatnot -- the answer might be different for people with different personalities or kids . If you already have the carrier ( s ) and find your children like riding in them , you may find it much easier to skip the stroller entirely and just rely on the carriers , and then you do n't have to worry about taking them in and out of the stroller every time you need to climb stairs , or avoid obstacles . Even in the US where there usually are good sidewalks , the carrier affords a lot more flexibility about where you can go !
If were a citizen of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , with a passport issued by that country , you would need a <URL> . If you are a citizen of Italy , with a passport issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands , again , you would need a visa . If you are an Italian citizen , with a passport issued by the government of Italy , then you are exempt , as you yourself indicate .
The rules depend on the specific place you want to park and are always posted there . The city districts are in charge of parking so the specifics differ from district to district . At the moment mostly only to park in the dark red zones of the map below you need a parking ticket ( <URL> ) . Of course the districts need some <URL> after which they model their parking zones . According to section 3.1.4 parking should be generally free at the night and on Sundays . Parking is usually only charged Monday through Friday 9am to 8pm and Saturdays 9am to 6pm . The rules specifically mention the possibility to extend those times if needed in that place . So you always should check how the times are at the place you want to park ! In German that sounds this : Als Regelzeiten werden empfohlen : Montag bis Freitag 9-20 Uhr Sonnabend 9-18 Uhr . Die gesonderte Betrachtung der Advents-Sonnabende entfällt . In Einzelfällen mit hohem Gastronomie - und Freizeitanteil kann es sinnvoll sein , die Bewirtschaftungszeiten auf Grundlage entsprechender Untersuchungen in die Abendstunden und/oder auf den Sonntag auszudehnen . Die Bewirtschaftungszeiten sollten möglichst berlinweit einheitlich angewandt werden , um Irritationen der Autofahrer zu vermeiden . Translation off the top of my head : Recommended common time periods : Monday to Friday 9 a.m. -- 8 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. -- 6 p.m. . A special consideration of Saturdays during advent is omitted . In singular cases with a high ratio of [ traffic related to ] gastronomy or leisure it may be sensible to extend [ parking space ] management time periods to the evening hours or Sunday based on suitable studies . Preferably the management time periods should be applied consistently across Berlin to avoid irritation among vehicle drivers .
end question
start question
Western Union collection from another post office in France ?
To answer my own question after my experience : You can collect Western Union payments in any " La Poste " that does Western Union . From my experience do the following : Write the Reference number in a clear and neat way on the cash receival form , from what happened to me the women mistyped the code and then said it was not her fault . Take more than just your Passport , have a drivers license there as backup incase they think you are a fraud . Have some French phrases prepared as the La Poste staff do not speak English very well and do not mess around , they will not go out their way to try and help you even if your a tourist . Prepare some French phrases and anticipate what they will say , for instance when they accused me of having the wrong Western Union reference number I said , " J'ai confirme sur la telephone avec Western Union " , roughly translates to that you confirmed the validity of the number . Go early , less people and queses and the staff will be less grumpy . I got my money in the end , but it was a stressfull experience . It really makes me appreciate the Royal Mail back in the UK . Hope this helps !
Traveling is a personal experience and the things you will need really depend on what you want to do . If you are going on holiday where you will be doing a bunch of things , I will pack all the necessary things I need at home and not worry too much about my trip . To cut to the chase , here 's my list of essentials : Shades or sunglasses , do n't forget them . If you are a swimmer or just to want to make yourself wet in a pool , have a pair of your swimming clothes and goggles . A laptop , assuming you do n't want to escape the rat race . Condoms , assuming you are married and want to have sex with your partner without the risk of making her pregnant . A towel , good to have when you are lying somewhere on a beach . Novels or books in general . Will help you enjoy long flights where passengers setting next to you are as grumpy as Donald Trump . Do some research on what to read and what 's new . It all depends on your interest . ( I carry my Kindle all the time ) . A flashlight . Good to have when you are out on a beach at night , or travel to an unknown land where you need to find your way around in the dark . Cash in local currency . And make sure you have some singles . You can do this after you land in your destination . Research the place before you travel . With that , you are making sure about what to do and where to go . Travel documents . Make sure you have them on you at all times . Shit happens , and you never know when . Have both the two and three pin plug adapters for your computer or electronic devices . A multi-adapter might be even better . Make sure you have your chargers in your handbag or backpack . Your credit card . Inform your bank that you are traveling so that they do n't block your card when they see a charge from a place in a far away land . At least that 's what I need to do in the US . A pen and paper . Training clothes and shoes . Most hotels will not let you use their facility in flip-flops . Last but not least , a nice backpack .
There are basically two ways of driving through france . Through the " <URL> ( RN ) " , and the " <URL> " . The autoroutes are the quickest and most convenient network in France . However , if you have the time and want to enjoy the beauty of the countryside the route national provides a valuable alternative for driving through France . Another advantage of the RN is that they are toll-free , whereas most highways have tolls . As @Gilles already said the highways have regular rest areas , they are called " Aires de repos " . <URL> where you can find the offered services per rest area . This website is in French , and also not handy since it uses the French numbering ( Axx ) to search , whereas the Google Map used , uses the <URL> In general you have two types of " aires de repos " . The first being offering services like restaurents , service stations , sometimes a hotel , etc. . The second being the basic version with at most only lavatories . You can distinguish the two by the panels indicating the aires on the highways : The ones with extended services : ( Source : Google maps ) and those with basic services ( typically containing an icon with a fir tree ) : ( Source : Google maps ) Personally , I would not recommend staying the night at basic stops ( the ones with the fir-tree icon ) . The ones with services can provide a relatively safe stop to spend the night . Regarding the showering , some do provide showers , but it is not common . Your best chances are where the truckers rest as well . On the RN , the aires de repos with services are not that common . Usually you 'll find the services in the cities the RN connects . Just before entering a city check for the budget hotels . F1 , Camponille , and Ibis Budget are examples of budget hotels throughout france where you can stay and take a shower . They provide a very basic formula catering to drivers . They are open 24 hours a day . I have spent the night in my car while driving on a route national , but it is something you need to decide for yourself whether you are comfortable doing . I would not recommend staying at a supermarket car park at the city boundaries . Local bored youth might disturb your night 's sleep . What I do is search for a nice spot in the country side , park my car out of sight and take a nap . You can also buy or bring a tent and stay at the various campsites .
Another dual-citizen Kiwi here . Our government actually has pages on this , and whilst it 's fine for you to travel on either passport , it 's best to enter NZ when you return on your NZ passport - otherwise you 're not technically a resident , and would have to have a visa and so on . The relevant links : <URL> <URL> although the first one is really the one applicable to you .
To answer my own question after my experience : You can collect Western Union payments in any " La Poste " that does Western Union . From my experience do the following : Write the Reference number in a clear and neat way on the cash receival form , from what happened to me the women mistyped the code and then said it was not her fault . Take more than just your Passport , have a drivers license there as backup incase they think you are a fraud . Have some French phrases prepared as the La Poste staff do not speak English very well and do not mess around , they will not go out their way to try and help you even if your a tourist . Prepare some French phrases and anticipate what they will say , for instance when they accused me of having the wrong Western Union reference number I said , " J'ai confirme sur la telephone avec Western Union " , roughly translates to that you confirmed the validity of the number . Go early , less people and queses and the staff will be less grumpy . I got my money in the end , but it was a stressfull experience . It really makes me appreciate the Royal Mail back in the UK . Hope this helps !
If you are a tourist , the state of emergency may not affect your stay in France expect if matches or stages are cancelled for security reasons . On the other hand , if you are a hooligan , the state of emergy can become your worst nghtmare : avoid France ! You can find the law describing the consequences of the state of emergency of the website <URL> . The law " Loi n ° 55-385 du 3 avril 1955 relative à l'état d'urgence " extends the power of the Department of Homeland Security " Ministère de l'interieur " and chiefs of police " prefet " . In the end , the consequences of the state of emergency are in the hands of the french Departement of Homeland Security . Motiviations to take actions are security and order , and tourists are warmly welcomed in France , including football fans and cyclists . Yet , the state of emergency can be used against holligans or can affect the pleasure of sport fans as matches or stages of the Tour de France could be suppressed as a collateral damage of threats to security and fear of terrorism . Among the possible consequences of the state of emergency for foreign tourits attending sport events : Article 5 : restriction of circulation of people and vehicules in particular areas , restricted areas Article 8 : concert halls , bars and any meeting places ( including stadiums ) can be closed by the local chief of police or the head of Homeland Security . Any meeting which can affect security can be prohibited . Article 6 : If there are serious reasons to suspect that someone threaten security or order , this man can be assigned to residence by the head of Homeland Security . His passport and id card can be withdrawn , in which case a temporary paper is issued as id . For the moment , these prerogatives are mainly used to prevent terrorism , following the attacks of November . Example of use of the state of emergency which can be related to your question : <URL> Before the football match between Mulhouse and Grenoble , on 17/11/2015 , a fight bewteen football fans/hooligans started near the stadium of Mulhouse . Supporters of Grenoble were prohibited in the stadium by the chief of police and their seats remained empty ... See also the <URL> , which prevented supporters of Shakhtar Donetsk from attending a match in Ile-de-France 7/12/2015 , supporters of Rubin Kazan in Bordeaux on 9/12/2015 , supporters of Lazio de Rome in Saint-Etienne on 9/12/2015 ... This situation occured 94 times in France between 30/11/2015 and 14/12/2015 because policemen were occupied protecting us from terrorism . Later , on 16/01/2016 , the administative tribunal of Chalons-en-Champagne has validated the prohibition of fans from Rennes in the stadium of Troyes , even if the measure was motivated by the fact that policemen were occupied protecting shopping malls during a sales period <URL> . <URL> : some proactive ecologists were assigned to residence during COP21 . And the World March for Climate on 29/11/2015 was forbidden for fear of terrorism . On the other hand , there are actually demonstrations against the project of law on working conditions and the movement " Nuit Debout " still holds on the Republic Place . Tourist are really welcome in France and Frenchmen are commited to turn the sport events of this summer into safe and joyful celebrations .
The Nantes -- La Rochelle -- Bordeaux line <URL> ; intercités trains have no compulsory reservation . From Rennes to Nantes , you would take a TER ( regional train ) , also without reservation . ( Depending on the times , you might end up with a different mixture of TER and intercités , but my point is that this journey does not involve trains requiring a reservation , as long as you do n't take a TGV between Rennes and Redon . ) Unless you have some type of Eurail pass that I have n't heard of and ca n't find any information about , <URL> , not journeys . The pass is valid only on the day you 've ticked the box for ( there 's an exception for night trains which generally count only against the second day ) . So you ca n't put two legs of the journey on the same Eurail day if you do them on a separate day . If you want to avoid ticking two days for this journey , buy one of the tickets separately . The full fare for Rennes -- La Rochelle is 43.60 $ and La Rochelle -- Bordeaux is 28.60 $ .
You can always apply . There is no specific delay between applications in the UK or Schengen area ( even to the same country , let alone to different countries ) and no automatic ban or anything like that following a mere refusal . However , you may want to be careful to address the problem raised in the UK visa refusal because , even though some of the rules and guidelines are slightly different , Schengen consulates tend to have similar concerns .
Canadian citizens may generally enter the US without a visa . Exceptions where Canadians are required to have a visa depend on the purpose for which they are entering , or on their criminal and immigration history , not on the location from which they are traveling nor on the jurisdiction wherein they reside . In most circumstances , Canadian citizens do not require visitor , business , transit or other visas to enter the United States , either from Canada or from other countries . There are , however , some exceptions to this situation . These exceptions ( and the visa category they require ) include : Treaty traders ( requires E Visa ) ; foreign citizen fiancé ( e ) ( K-1 Visa ) , as well as the fiancé ( e ) 's children ( K-2 Visa ) ; , A U.S. citizen 's foreign citizen spouse traveling to reside in the U.S. while awaiting final completion of the process of immigration ( K-3 Visa ) , as well as the spouse 's children ( K-4 Visa ) ; Spouses of lawful permanent residents ( V-1 Visas ) , as well as the spouse 's children who are traveling to reside in the U.S. while awaiting final completion of the process of immigration ( V-2 Visas ) ; Non-immigrants travelling to the United States for work ( Non-Immigrant Visas ) , including : Canadian government officials ( A Visas ) , if entering the U.S. for temporary or permanent assignment ; Officials and employees of international organizations ( G Visas ) , if entering the U.S. for temporary or permanent assignment ; and NATO officials , representatives , and employees , only if they are being assigned to the U.S. ( as opposed to an official trip ) . Furthermore , Canadians who have been removed from the United States or who have a criminal record , including for driving under the influence , will need to follow a separate set of procedures to enter the country . Source : <URL>
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
Until few months ago , french railways had the monopoly of long distance travel . This has changed recently and Eurolines now offers <URL> .
tl ; dr : In theory no , in practice yes . Most national monuments ( e.g. Louvre , Musee d'Orsay , ... ) are managed by the same organization and likely they stick to the same rules . I assume this is similarlay valid for other sights ( e.g. Eiffel tower ) . In theory : <URL> states that entrance is free for disabled visitors and their guest or helper and A list of all acceptable proofs of entitlement is available at the museum from the Information Desk ( under the Pyramid ) . Now that is not very accessible and <URL> . The page is in French so if you do n't read that it basically says you need a card from MDPH or CDAPH which seem French institutions to me ( and a degree of the handicap of 80 % or more ) . Following the letter of this regulation , holders of foreign handicapped cards should not be granted the reduction . However I doubt this is the way it is handled in practice . In practice : A German issued card was accepted without hesitation for the card holder and an accompanying person ( even when not specified on the card , regardless of degree of disability ) at Musee d'Orsay . I assume similar policies are in place also for the other national monuments .
Not my region ( lavender is mostly found in Provence , but there are occasional fields in other regions ) , so I need to rely on <URL> . Lavender flowers from late June to late August . It is typically harvested well before the flower wilts , because the heat makes the essence rise towards the flower 's glands , so the plant 's aroma becomes less strong as the summer goes by . The exact harvest time varies from region to region ( and of course with the year 's weather ) ; looking around on the Internet , I see dates ranging from mid-July to mid-August ; for example there are <URL> from the third Sunday in July to the 15th of August ; the harvest tends to be earlier in the Drôme region .
Most hotels listed in <URL> are of this type . You can book a hotel and later cancel the booking without any fee or charges . The site is very reliable . For your particular case , you may book <URL> .
When I had a week ( about 7 years ago ) we decided it was n't going to possible to see " the key sites " in such a short time . So we took 2 days in Paris , 4 days outside , and then the last day back in Paris . The 4 days outside had a single theme . For us it was the Loire Valley and the <URL> . You might choose a specific wine region , or the Mediterranean beaches , or the Alps , or whatever . We saw the Louvre , the Eiffel Tower , the Champs Elysees and so on in Paris , took the train to Nantes , drove back up the Loire Valley seeing chateaux , eating , drinking and really soaking everything in until we reached Chartres , spent a day there , then the train back into Paris ( DO NOT DRIVE IN PARIS ) and enjoyed some more sightseeing there and headed home . Think of the one non-Paris thing you 'd like to focus on , and build a trip around that . I think you 'll find it super memorable . If you are n't sure , look into the Loire ... we sure liked it !
Update : According to recent announcement , the Carte 12-25 is no more ; now it is replaced by two distinct cards , called Jeune 12-17 and Jeune 18-27 ; they basically offer the same benefits , and an extra year of eligibility is added in comparison to the original 12-25 : it is possible to get the card until 1 day before the 27th birthday and benefit from it until 2 days before the 28th birthday . The Carte 12-25 and the Voyageur program are two distinct things . This rail card stil exists , and is still popular among young French travellers . I actually own one ; it returned on its investment a long time ago ! The Carte 12-25 is the rail card that gives proof to the fare inspector that you are eligible for the discount fare , and have paid the yearly fee . The Voyageur card is the rewards program , just like airlines do . Anyone can get a Voyageur card and earn points . It is also used as an electronic ticket support : you can associate your tickets in the " e-billet " format ( nominative as opposed to transferrable paper tickets ) and the inspector on board will verify them by scanning the 2D barcode on the card . I see where you could be confused : Back in time , at the beginning of the year , the Voyageur program did not exist . Loyalty programs were restricted to discount card holders : anyone getting such a card ( 12-25 , Escapades , Senior , Enfant + ) automatically got the associated loyalty card in the mail . The loyalty program , called " Gagnez à Voyager " , had the cards branded with the same name as the associated rail cards . Mine was a " Gagnez à Voyager - Carte 12-25 " . The earned points , called " S'miles " , were valid among an alliance of shops to which the SNCF belonged to . For example , you could earn points in travel and get discounts at Monoprix supermarkets in return . Later , the SNCF decided to quit the alliance and run its own loyalty program . No more Gagenz à Voyager cards , no more S'miles . Points were converted into the new " currency " . The notable changes introduced were : No more alliance : points only work at the SNCF Anyone can join , no more restriction to rail card holders All cards are electronic ticket supports using a 2D barcode on back The rail card still exists and has not changed . Of course , you can order one online . Note that it is very easy to get one from a physical ticket booth or travel agent too : you only need valid proof of your age ( the passport is OK ) and your card is printed on the spot for you . It is issued on the same cardboard as a train ticket , folded in three and placed into a small protective cover . A photo is usually requested but not immediately ; if you do not have one when buying the card , the agent will give you the special transparent sticker to add it later . On board , you can show an ID with your rail card to give photo identification in such cases . It is a wise investment for anyone eligible . One good detail is that , in some situations , you can get same-price or cheaper first class seats as compared to second class on reserved trains . This is due to how yield management works ; 1st class and 2nd class quotas are separate . Very nice to benefit of that in France , since some other rail networks simply do not offer youth fares in first class .
It is a more or less personal opinion , but I personally would first travel along the Rhine valley . There you can find nice landscape and also stop in beautiful cities like Strasbourg . After that I would carry on through Alsace , crossing nice cities like Colmar . After that I would try to cross the Alps , to see some high mountains and beautiful landscape . It depends a little bit on where exactly in the South of France you want to travel ( i.e. to the border with Spain or Italy or between ) , but assuming that it is somewhere in the middle like Marseille , I would then visit the Swiss city Basel and travel along Lake Neuchatel and Lake Geneva back to France . There I would aim to Chambéry , located directly between two Natural Parks . And from there you can pass Col de l'Iseran , the highest pass in the Alps ( 2770m ) to get to Italy . From there I would aim at Albenga so that you can later follow the beautiful Italian respectively France coastline to your destination . Here is a map of my suggested route : Google Maps tells me it is 1495 km , while the direct route would be 866 km . So you see it is really a lot more to drive , but you will also see a lot more !
The list of French legal holidays can be found <URL> ( in French ) or simply <URL> . They are : January 1 <URL> Monday , April 9 , in 2012 May 1 May 8 <URL> , May 17 , in 2012 <URL> , May 28 , in 2012 July 14 August 15 November 1 November 11 December 25
This may not be exactly what you are looking for , but it will be better than just dry toilet paper . <URL> are sold in most grocery/sundries stores in the baby section . They can even be purchased in small packages which are made to fit in a purse and some of them are specifically sold as being flushable ( i.e. it 's ok to just throw them in the toilet afterwards ) . I usually take some of these along for hiking/camping trips when I 'm not sure how long I 'll have to go without a shower .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
end question
start question
What visas are available for consultants paid by a foreign company in Australia ?
No , the ETA subclass 601 is not the right visa for this purpose . To quote the <URL> Business visitor activities include : making general business or employment enquiries investigating , negotiating , signing or reviewing a business contract activities carried out as part of an official government-to-government visit participating in conferences , trade fairs or seminars , as long as you are not being paid by the organisers for your participation . Business activities do not include short-term work . If you want to work in Australia , you can apply for a Temporary Work ( Short Stay Activity ) visa ( Subclass 400 ) . ( Emphasis mine ) Now some anecdotal evidence ( see the answer by @pkaeding ) suggests you can get away with this visa anyway . Enforcement of these things often varies by nation enforcing , and the ethnicity and class of the visitor ( white people in expensive suits more likley to be waved through ) . However I know that in the UK trying to do this could cause you a lot of trouble , and that in the US sometimes you might get waved through with the answer " business " , sometimes you might get asked more questions at the border , and then turned around . <URL> The Temporary Work ( Short Stay Activity ) visa ( subclass 400 ) is a temporary visa that lets you enter Australia to : do short-term , highly specialised , non-ongoing work participate in an event or events on a non-ongoing basis at the invitation of an Australian organisation . in limited circumstances , participate in an activity or work relating to Australia 's interests . Generally you can stay in Australia for up to three months where required , but depending on your work or activity a longer period of up to six months may be allowed in limited circumstances . Which sounds like exactly what you want . The wording of the site implies its not too difficult to get , but who knows .
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
The phrasing " government funded flight " suggests that the flight was chartered by the Australian government . Charter flights are not usually eligible for miles . For example , Rule 9.3.1 of <URL> says : Subject to the exclusions in clauses 9.3.2 and 9.4 , Points for air travel may be earned only for paid travel or Any Seat Awards [ ... ] on regular scheduled flights [ ... ] and Rule 9.4.1 ( c ) specifically says : 9.4.1 Points are not earned for travel on [ ... ] ( c ) charter flights ; The case might be different if your government buys people tickets on a regular scheduled flight , rather than chartering the whole plane . But evacuations like this are usually undertaken when scheduled flights are not operating .
Dining cars are present on almost every long-distance train . They offer rather good food ( although I have little experience to compare it to European trains ) , though I would not expect much delicacies , just a good food of a middle-range city restaurant . Specifically for Baikal fish , I doubt it , except probably when you travel near Baikal itself . In addition to restaurant cars you can also buy basic snacks from a conductor at your car , and sometimes a waiter from a restaurant car would go through the train offering snacks to passengers . At the same time , as many have mentioned here , on every station where the train stops for at least 20 minutes1 , there usually will be locals selling food to you right from the platform . The quality of that food varies a lot ( with no medical control etc. ) , but it is indeed a chance to try a good local food . I have never traveled near Baikal , but I 've been once in Karelia , and a great choice of cooked ( smoked etc. ) fish was available . However , I think this might depend on a season . Apart from these local specialties , locals will be selling mostly basic food appealing for low-class travelers trying to eat as cheap as possible . Sometimes these locals will even buy a ticket from one station to a neighbor one and walk through train offering their products , so you might even not need to walk out . Also note that you can buy tickets with meals included , but this usually starts from 2nd class . On a short trip ( 1 night and shorter ) this will be just several snacks and some drink , but on longer trains they can bring some basic hot food from the dining car directly to your compartment . When booking a ticket , look for label like " У2 " in the carriage class field . " У " stands for " услуги " ( " services " -- meals , and also includes a few newspapers etc. ) , while the number stands for the number of meals included . The boilers are available in every sleeping car , except for some exceptional circumstances such as boiler malfunctioning or running out of water . Not that these are unheard of , but rather rare , and most probable it will be OK to go to another carriage and use their boiler in such a case . The water quality might be not the best , and personally I dislike it and try to avoid , but many people do drink it . The biggest concern is not sanitary problems , but just some metallic smell etc. . Also a bigger problem might be lack of cold ( well , room-temperature ) drinking water ; you may find that boiling water is the only drinkable water you can get . It is a good idea to have a bottle or two of drinking water with you . Also note that there are different train types in Russia . The best are so-called " firmenny " trains ( фирменный поезд ) , or the " premium " ( " премиум " ) introduced several years ago . They have all the facilities ( from restaurant cars to 3rd class carriages and toilets ) much better than other trains , but the tickets are also more expensive for the same class . At the other end , during high season ( summer ) you might see temporary trains assigned for just a couple of months . They are usually compiled of different old carriages and may have many different problems ; I even am not quite sure whether they have a dining car at all . A rough rule of thumb is the less is the official designated number of train/route ( you see it when you book the tickets ) , the better is the train : trains from 1 to approx . 150 are firmenny trains , while those temporary trains are usually assigned numbers at about 800 and above . Intermediate numbers and trains also exist . 1 Such stations are usually every several hours of train trip . And yes , even if the train comes to the station in dead night , some locals still probably will be there .
<URL> allows what you 're looking for . Just type the country of origin and destination . It even allows you to set the destination as all the world instead of country . In Skyscanner you will also be allowed to make broad searches regarding time . You can specify the time windows of your flight as specific days , but also as a month ( eg. : departing in July ) . The results will be presented in form of a price calendar ( or graph ) and you can check the cheapest days .
You 'll want to decide whether you need to make calls , send SMS , or if you 're just after it for data . Then take a look at the <URL> . Depending on what phone you have , you have a few options there , and it 'll depend on how much data you plan on using in those five days , of course , as to which one suits you the best , but you 'll be able to choose between 3 KHK , One2Free NextG and PEOPLE 's , each with their pros and cons .
There is no bus connection between Leuven or Brussels and Luxembourg . So you have to go by train . There is an hourly direct train from Brussels to Luxembourg . There is no direct train from Leuven . You have to make a connection in Ottignies ( on the Brussels-Luxembourg line ) . There is at least one train per hour between Leuven and Ottignies . Alternatively , you can travel through Liège ( Luik ) . There is one train per hour between Leuven and Liège and one train every two hours between Liège and Luxembourg . Note that the ride from Liège to Luxembourg is a quite scenic one . You can book tickets via <URL> , the international website , as Luxembourg is not in Belgium . The price for a return ticket is 43 EUR in the second class and 72 EUR in the first class . This is a fixed price , as explained <URL> . As there are no highspeed trains involved on this route , you do n't have to book the ticket in advance . You can buy it at the train station , even just before the departure of the train . The ticket is valid on any train on the route .
<URL> : lockers are now available in Porto downtown at Trindade metro station - with direct connection to Porto Airport . The station is opened all the year from 06am to 01am , and the service it 's not expensive . Another link to the <URL> shows more information . Their FAQ is broken in English , but from my rough translation , it 's not necessary to reserve , they 're open from 6am to 1am , and the baggage dimensions for storage are : Small : 36x48x85 cm . Medium : 36x65x85 cm . Large : 36x99x85 cm . The prices depend on how long and how large a locker you require , and are available <URL> . It varies between 1 Euro for 1 hour for a small bag up to 6 Euros for an all day storage of a large one . At the time of writing there is just one block of lockers comprising 16 small lockers , 9 medium and 2 large , as shown in this picture ( from the aforementioned company website ) : <URL> If you are travelling with large suitcases you 'll need to either find a free large locker or try to cram the suitcase in a medium one . Note that being the only self-service luggage storage service in Porto , the lockers tend to be all occupied most of the time .
I asked using the contact form on www.britrail.net and got this reply : Dear Henning , We understand your point however your Danish passport is sufficient ID to validate your Britrail pass . Please do n't worry and have a great trip ! I think I 'll be bringing a printout of that email ...
I found it hard enough finding an ATM in Vancouver that would even ACCEPT my card ( or my friend 's ) . However , keep an eye out for HSBC ATMs , they seemed to be the ones guaranteed to take both my UK and New Zealand credit/debit cards . Failing that , any 7-11 never failed to accept my cards . And yes , some do charge extra fees . ( This was last month - was in Vancouver around the beginning of October . )
Yes , a visa is required for EU citizens . Fortunately , getting one is free and ( usually ) pretty quick . The easiest way is to <URL> . See " Eligible passport holders " on that page to check if you are eligible for eVisitor . The eVisitor allows visitors to travel to Australia for short term business or tourism purposes for up to three months . eVisitor applications are free and are available to passport holders from the European Union and a number of other European countries . More information on Australian visas can be found at <URL>
Yes , they often ( but not always ) are , especially in larger hotels . A dip in the baths alone ( 入浴 nyuyoku ) usually goes for less than & yen ; 1000 and is typically available only in the daytime hours only when overnight guests are away . Many hot spring resorts offer " spa tours " ( 湯巡り yumeguri ) that let you sample multiple baths for a discounted price . Some travel agents also offer daytrip packages ( 日帰り温泉 higaeri onsen ) consisting transport , entry to the baths plus lunch .
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
What is your home country and bank ? No , no details needed , this is not a scam attempt :-) . Knowing may help answers . I 'd expect the following to be the best solution if the service is available : In the past and almost certainly still you can send items to a Post Office to be held pending your collection . You would definitely want to check with Australia Post to see if this service is available and , if so , what mailing and physical office addresses are available for this service . As the letter would still be in the mailing system until collected the security would be good . Alternatively , if you know anyone in Australia they could act as a relay . My daughter is a hospital doctor in Canberra . She may be happy to act as a mail relay point . I imagine that you can get same day courier services from Canberra to Melbourne and pick up at a courier office . Obviously you 'd need some more details before you trusted you card to that arrangement :-) . If all else fails contact me offlist and we can discuss . My email address is on my profile page if required . ( I 'm in NZ ) .
Absolutely . While you may sometimes have time to look things up , often you wo n't . I have absent-mindedly arrived overseas without learning " please " and " thank you " , and noticed upon fixing that , and using them as appropriate , that everyone was instantly nicer to me , both strangers and the people I was there to interact with . It makes a difference . I recommend you learn the following things before you go : please , thank you , hello , help , yes , no ( and the gestures for yes and no too ) what they say in that country to call people forward from a line ( eg " Next ! " in many English speaking countries ) the names of foods you especially like or ( more importantly ) can not eat You should be able to both say and hear these words and react appropriately , which could be as simple as smiling and saying the same thing , or could be getting out your translation device or guidebook and starting the work of communicating . While you are in the country , you should also know : how to say , hear , and read anything that might be your destination - a city name if you 're travelling to it , your hotel name , an attraction you want to visit . If you think Tour Eiffel refers to a guided visit , you will be confused or sorry . It is also good to learn east , west , north , and south for extra confirmation that you 're getting on the right train or bus some numbers . You 'll need these for times , prices , bus routes , and so on . If the country writes them differently learn that too . If you have learned absolutely NO WORDS in the local language , carry props . A map on which you point to where you want to go , some paper from the hotel with their name on it you can show to a cab driver , a printout of your train ticket with your destination on it . " Please help " and pushing your paper at someone will probably work . Getting your phone to say " which is the platform for the airport train ? " might , but then again it might not . Imagine yourself at the mall and a stranger comes up to you . They hold their phone out to you and want you to read it , or they push a button and their phone says something ungrammatical in a robot voice . Would you help those people ? Would it make a difference if the conversation started " Hello , can you please help me ? I am lost . " and then the phone-offering or paper-showing started ? I think it would . Knowing just a dozen local words will make an enormous difference and it is not hard to do . One other thing : if you can convincingly say " no thankyou " in a bored voice in the local language you will be pestered far less by the tchotke-sellers and would-be pickpockets or whatever that seem to hang around most tourist attractions . I learned this by accident in France . I was being polite declining in their own language and the one time I slipped and used English I got a frighteningly hard sell and a lot of pressure and aggravation . That never happened with the bored French .
Data via cellphone is one of <URL> . Vendors are shifting from 3G to 4G , starting in the area around Montevideo . From a consumer 's standpoint the only discouraging trend in this market is the adoption of data volume caps by all vendors . As of August 2012 no vendor web-site offered an unlimited mobile internet data plan ( the closest was an " unlimited during nights and weekends " from Claro . ) In terms of prepaid data plans , there are several available , from Claro , Antel or Movistar . I wo n't copy and paste verbatim as I 'm sure they 're likely to change with time , but an up-to-date wiki is maintained at <URL> on APNCharger.org .
Probably yes , but ... I put in my visa application today . I ticked the box for multiple-entry 12 month visa . I had a printout for a flight into Guangzhou and out again just under two months later . I also had a printout for one week of accommodation in Guangzhou . In fact I was told I must have these things the first time I went to the Chinese visa office because at that time I only had a printout for the flight in , not for a return flight , and not for accommodation . On my second visit a couple of hours later they told me that these documents are actually only sufficient to apply for a single - or double-entry visa , and not for a multiple entry visa ! It 's very hard to get detailed information on what you must supply to get what kind of visa for China . Hard to get out of the embassy and consulate websites , hard to learn from the people working at the consulates and visa offices , hard to find on the Internet , hard to find out by asking travel agents , and even hard to garner from the crowd of travel experts at travel.stackexchange.com ! To get such a visa you will need to document more of your itinerary by showing proof of flights and accommodations . But I still do not know the details of how many flights and how many accommodation bookings . Maybe you need to provide a full itinerary with everything booked in advance before you even know if your visa will be approved . But maybe you just need to book three flights and two accommodations . For some reason the people working in Chinese consulate visa sections and Chinese visa offices seem to prefer to play their cards close their chests and provide only the bare minimum of information each time you bring in your application forms . Now perhaps travel agencies that book entire tour packages would know all the details and fill out the visa application forms for you . I really do not know what the best approach could be for an independent traveller who wants as much flexibility to travel around China , leaving and re-entering . Update : When I picked up my visa I chatted with the lady in the visa office about how I had wanted a one-year multiple entry visa and she told me that it requies the applicant to show at least three booked flights and accommodations . I did not think to ask her if that meant three return flights or whether three flights either in or out of China would suffice .
You seem to forget one aspect : injuries . As far as I know , those are almost as common as anything else with children . So as a minimum I 'd definitely take : some plasters , bandages and gauze pads antiseptic spray or cream for wounds , maybe antiseptic wipes to clean out wounds cream for sprains or muscle ache and to treat sunburns tweezers to get out splinters or ticks Of course the last two will depend on what activities do you do and where you live . But I urge you not to forget about the first aid supplies for injuries . You will most certainly be fine with a child in pain who has to wait for 2 days to get pain medication , but a wound which you do n't have the means to treat correctly can become dangerous quite quickly .
It is indeed true that you can buy insurance at the border when entering Kosovo . The reason being that Kosovo is not a member of the <URL> . The Kosovo Insurance Bureau has <URL> : There are a total of 13 points of sale for border insurance policies , namely : Point of sale in Prishtina -- KIB headquarters Point of sale in Podujeva - Merdare Point of Sales Mitrovica Point of sale in Glloboçica Point of sale in Elez Han Point of sale in Prizren - Vërmica Point of sale in Peja -- Kulla Point of sale in Gjakovë -- Qafe Morin and Qafe Prush Point of sale in Kamenica -- Dheu i Bardhe Point of sale in Gjilani - Muqibabe Point of sale in Mutivode Point of sale in Leposavic - Jarinje * Point of sale in Zubin Potok - Bernjaka * * These two points of sale are currently out of order ( at the time of writing - Aug. 2015 ) . The insurance is valid for the entire length of your trip and its cost is vehicle dependent . In terms of coverage , quoting from the linked KIB website : 2 . What does the Border Insurance cover ? Border insurance covers all damages to third parties that are caused by owners of motor vehicles with foreign registration plates who hold a valid Border Insurance certificate . This insurance does not cover damages incurred to the vehicle that caused the damage , damages caused by unknown persons ( N / N or hit and run ) , damages caused by natural disasters , as well as damages caused by the holder of such insurance to themselves by rollover , animals on the road , etc. .
Fortunately , I never faced a situation where the company owned laptop was stolen , while I was traveling overseas with it , I was given a Letter of Authorization ( LOA ) certifying that the laptop , I am carrying with me , is a company owned property , for business use , by the Immigration department of my company . The primary usage of this LOA mentioned to me , by the immigration department folks , was for producing a documentary evidence to the Custom officials , if asked for by them . The LOA , I carried looked similar to the one posted <URL> . IMO , the same letter could have been used to assert that the stolen laptop in your case , was a company owned device , and not a personal device . Though , I do not know of any such provision/restriction in law , which prohibits from filing a theft complaint either in USA ( based on the answers on this question to my immigration department , when I was traveling to USA ) or in India ( I live in India ) .
end question
start question
Cumbria Way in June . Do I need to make reservations ?
It being the Lake District in June , you can expect rain , gorgeous sunshine , fog , wind , calm , hot and cold , so for the first part of your question : take layers of clothing , with an outer waterproof / windproof layer take a hat take sun screen take midge repellent That 's the UK for you - very variable :-) For the second part - I would suggest booking B&amp;B 's , especially if the 5 day forecast is good , as the route can get very busy very fast . There is a lot of accommodation along the route , but you do n't want to be stuck .
An easy option is <URL> ( although there 's also Telecom and Vodafone , if you 're staying in cities , I 'd recommend 2degrees ) . There are many stores in Wellington that sell the sim cards , and last I checked ID was not required ( I last bought a sim there 3 years ago ) . They have a <URL> which shows dozens of locations in Wellington to buy - I usually just go to a newsagent or ' dairy ' ( like a corner store ) . 7/11s are n't in New Zealand , despite being common in Australia ( ! ) .
No , you do not need an ESTA . In this context , " transit " means travelling from country A to country B with a stop in the USA on the way . You are already in the USA and are not intending to enter or leave , so your flight is a domestic flight . The ESTA and VWP rules do not apply . As a domestic flight passenger , you will not encounter US Customs and Border Protection officers . You will still have to pass through airport security ( TSA ) , but that applies to all flights and they do not deal with visa issues at all .
As a EU citizen , you are entitled to visa free entry throughout the EU . You need proof that you are an EU citizen , and the easiest way to provide this is with your passport . Furthermore , as a UK citizen , you enjoy <URL> - not including those in the EU . It is safe to say , you enjoy a great deal of freedom of movement even outside the EU .
A business visa ( type C visa ) allows you to enter a country temporarily to conduct business there , such as buying stuff , meeting with collaborators etc. . Business visa are usually valid for 90 days , like tourist visas , and they do not allow residence . Whether you actually need to apply to the <URL> to obtain a business visa <URL> . A work visa ( type D visa ) allows you to stay in the country for more than 90 days to conduct business . See also <URL> for the difference between the two visas , and for links to the respective applications .
It depends . If your ticket comes with a seat reservation ( <URL> ) then you do not need to stamp your ticket : just board the train . Shorter range tickets with no seat reservation , on the other hand , must be stamped . Your ticket probably reads <URL> somewhere at the top . Trenitalia personnel typically does n't cut tourists much slack and if " busted " you will be forced to buy a ticket on board with a surcharge . I 've seen plenty of tourists fall for this on the Milan-Bergamo line and it saddens me . If this happens , keep in mind that you 're not being fined . The ticket you bought is still valid ; you 're just buying a new one . You can use that ticket for your return trip ( just make sure you do stamp it next time ! ) Also , try and be honest and avoid getting into arguments . Ticket checkers have no qualms with waking people up and locking yourself up in the bathroom does not really work ( it 's no excuse for not slipping the ticket below the door ) . They can also actually fine you for quite a lot more money than just buying a new ticket with the surcharge ( although I 've never witnessed things degenerate to this level ) , followed by forcing you to step off the train wherever it stops next . Yeah , not fun . When in doubt , stamp the ticket . If it 's a paper ticket , use <URL> typically found at the station entrance ( by ticket sales ) or at the lower end of the stairways up to the tracks . If it 's a magnetic ticket ( ? ) then use the blue machines instead . If all the stamping machines should be broken , or if you just did n't have the time to stamp your ticket , or if you are iffy about the quality of the stamping ( maybe it did n't print very well ? ) what Trenitalia and Trenord personnel have told me to do is to board the train at the head and tell the ticket collector when ( if ) he comes . He should sign off the ticket with no surcharge . I do n't know if this is something official or just an informal convention , but I know it 's worked for me in the past .
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
I checked the website from the <URL> , ( <URL> ) , there is no vaccination needed for that . ( As far as I know , only children get vaccinated for that ) . Check that website , it has a ton of information on the vaccination subject . The vaccinations are not that great anyway ( in the way that they protect you entirely ) . Meningitis can be caused by a virus or a bacteria ( and a parasite or fungus ) and there are over a 100 bacteria/virus strains that can cause it , the vaccinations only protect for a small number of these .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
Tatkal tickets are exactly the same as normal tickets , except on a priority quota . You do n't need any special documents to book or travel with those tickets . ( Source : My dad 's general manager at Indian Railways ) With the changes in rules , you need to provide ID number of any document such as PAN Card or Driving Licence or Passport of one of the passengers in the reservation form and produce the same to the TT when he/she comes to check your ticket in the train .
The best way to find out whether you need a reservation on a certain train is to look up the train in a rail planner . I use the <URL> for this , as it is easy to use and gives good information . Enter the cities you want to travel and adjust date and time of day , if traveling more than a few months from the time you check , just pick a random date but try to use the same day of the week , and hit search . In the results you will find trains with an R , a grey dot with a white R means compulsory reservation , they also have a different R for recommended reservation . Click on the orange arrow before the results and you get details . The train you mention was in the results I got without reservation notice with it , so you can get on it without a reservation , also when you hold a rail pass . For first class travel I might not bother with reservations but for second class long distance travel I do make them when possible . Trains do tend to fill up , also when you do not expect them to .
Your luggage will be checked in all the way . You do n't need to collect it as you will be in transit , and your luggage will be in a secured area . You will ( of course ) have to carry your carry-on luggage with you to the next plane .
No , you do n't : if you 've used your USA visa at least once , you can enter Georgia visa-free for 90 days . Foreign nationals who have a multiple entry US , EU or Schengen member states visas , which have validity for one year or more and had been used once at least , can enter or stay on the territory of Georgia without visa up to 90 days , within the validity term of the visa . Source : <URL>
Basically it means you pay less money if you book the room weeks or months in advance . But note that such a rate usually means you have to pay a fee if you cancel or change the booking at any time , while paying the regular rate usually allows cancelling or changing the booking for free up to a day or two before .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
It is unlikely you would pay a lower rate for a walk-in at any hotel or motel . Whether or not the walk-in rate is higher depends on many factors and your problem is that you wo n't know until you arrive . However , during summer travel season , price is not the primary concern , it 's availability . You should make a reservation to guarantee you have a room .
Not quite sure what the question is . You could book a tourist trip to the USA and ask for a visa for that . If you want to wait till April 20th after you get the ticket you need to check the <URL> to get a visa interview appointment and the processing time . I checked for Chennai and it 's a week to appointment and one working day to get a visa . Delhi is only 2 days longer . Aka you have enough time . Or are you asking whether you will be given the visa just for that ? We ca n't answer that . Attending a conference is a perfect reason for a <URL> but whether you have enough ties and funds is something only they will decide .
A towel is required . And it has to be large enough . You are supposed to sit or to lie on it . One towel can be enough . However , a second towel and/or a bathrobe can be useful too , when you are relaxing outside the sauna . In most of the saunas you can rent towels and bathrobes . If 80x60 refer to centimeters , than it 's not enough . You have to fit on the towel , as shown here : However , sitting like this wo n't be accepted . You will then be kindly reminded to put your feet on the towel :
Ah , MUFJ , that mutant offspring of semi-insolvent Japanese banks . You 're in for some fun times ! The sanest way to approach this is to go to the bank branch and ask , they 'll rustle up somebody with enough English to help you out . The Japanese keyword is <URL> ( gaikokusōkin ) . A few pointers : Not all branches handle remittances , so pick a nice big branch that does . See <URL> ( Jp only ) . Bring lots of ID , both personal and bank-related . Make sure you know your " anshin bangō " security code and can sign your signature the way you did when you opened your account . Find out everything you possibly can about the bank account you 're sending to . This includes SWIFT codes , branch names , branch addresses , etc. . Expect it to take forever . Seriously , if you 're out of there in less than an hour , it 's a good day . Expect to pay <URL> for the privilege , more if you 're sending lots .
end question
start question
How to choose a good travel insurance policy ?
Not entirely sure if this is what you 're after , as it 's still a bit vague - but for adventurous travellers like myself , and others I 've met in stranger countries regularly use <URL> . It 's all purchasable and able to be edited/renews/claimed against online , which is great for travellers without say a regular permanent address that some companies require you to have . I 'm actually getting a new policy with them tonight - albeit for a simple visit to Canada :) ( assuming no more riots ! )
Spring is unfortunately ( along with Autumn ) the <URL> . Some flowers bloom earlier than others , so depending on when you go , you may see a variety of different flowers . April and May tend to be the <URL> as they have slightly less rain than March , and you can usually guarantee that by then the flowers will be out , however the later you leave it , the slightly increased chance of summer arriving early and the blossoms vanishing . However , <URL> showed them in early March . So to some extent it 's a bit of a luck of the draw . Basically , the later you go , the better chance of good weather , but the slightly less chance of seeing flowers . To go for the best ' chance ' of both , I guess that would average out to be early April then .
I believe what you 're looking for is called the <URL> . 8 in | 19 cm Ruler Bottle Opener Can Opener Hard-wire Cutters Large Screwdriver Needlenose Pliers Phillips Screwdriver Regular Pliers Scissors Small Screwdriver Wire Cutters Wire Stripper but importantly , NO KNIVES !
" The Grotto " on the Bruce Peninsula ( Georgian Bay , Ontario , Canada ) could be a good choice . The water 's always cold ( though it can be plenty hot outside ) , but if you take appropriate precautions it should otherwise match your criteria . It 's pretty cool : You can actually swim through the hole in the bottom out into the bay . There are a lot of cool cliffs and trails in the area , it definitely makes for a good vacation . If you 're interested in more caves and more complex caves , this might not be the place , although there are a few other bayside caves I 've seen in the area and definitely more away from the water .
There are some strategies that you can use : Prepare : Check websites like <URL> or <URL> before you go there . If you really want to plan , write down the restaurants you want to visit . Based on the ratings and comments there , you should be able to judge if it is an authentic restaurant with a good service . Do n't stick to the main street : Very often , tourist places attract tourist restaurants . So to get a more authentic experience , go to the areas where not a lot of tourists go . Sometimes it is enough to just go one block off the main street and you will find no tourists . Avoid obvious tourist traps : There are some hints that can tell you immediately if the restaurant is a tourist trap . As user1187008 pointed out for example , one should avoid restaurants with a big illustrated menu in English ( especially , if English is not the local language ) Observe the locals : Check out where the locals go to eat . They know best what restaurants are good . Use the internet : Try to find local blogs which emphasize of food . For every major city , you will find such food/restaurant blogs . Be spontaneous : Tripadvisor and other websites have apps for smartphones that allow you to check the restaurants in the surroundings of your current location . Ask a friend : As Rory Alsop pointed out , it is always a good idea to ask a local friend for advice if you know anybody at the destination .
Is it busy ? That 's generally a positive sign . Do the customers look like locals ? Also a good sign , means they know of others but are still willing to come here . What does the crowd look like ? You can use their clothes , manner etc to hazard a guess at their background and what they may be willing to spend on - and use that to compare with what you want . Is there a price board out front with ' discounts for tourists ' or some nonsense ? Likely mass-produced for the tourist market - not necessarily bad , but it 's not likely to be a local meal . Is it on the main tourist street ? Go one block off there , you 've got a better chance of value for money .
I suggest you start with the " Centro de Interpretação de Monsanto " ( Monsanto Interpretation Center ) . It is a building with a lot of information about this area ( pictures of flora and fauna , maps , guides ... ) and from there you can decide where you want to go next . Unfortunately , this page is not translated , but you can try to use an automatic translater : <URL> From this page you can also grab more ideas . Public transportations in Monsanto are not good . Bike is a very good option ( generally speaking of course ) .
Obviously , the best book for you depends a lot on what you are looking for . Many criteria are to be taken into account : the place ( s ) you 'll go to : some books will cover only the capital , other will cover the main cities and other will cover the countryside as well . the duration of your trip ( many books are explicitely for trips of a couple of days ) the kind of tourist you are : what are you really looking for ( cultural visits , natural landscapes , relaxation ) how much are you willing to spend on your trip ( many books are for backbackers and might be irrelevant for a family trip ) : the transportation , the places to sleep/drink/eat / visit and the can be really different how much cultural background you want to know : a few small sentences in the foreign language ; the whole history of the country ; a description of the culture you 'll be living in . All those things can make a difference and might or might not be relevant to you how you want to use your guide : read the whole thing before the trip , open it at random once you are there , etc how you want to find the information in your guide : sorted by city/price/type of activity many other things In any case , if you are in the shop , it 's worth opening the different books to see if they really talk about what you are looking for and if it seems good to you ( which is mostly of matter of personal preferences ) . If you are front of your computer , you can still have a look at the readers reviews ( on Amazon for instance ) even if it might not be really accurate as one usually tries only one guide per trip/destination . Finally , after a while , you might get used to a specific type of guide and feel more comfortable with it . As for me , I 'm really used to the " Guides du Routard " ( French collection ) and I 'm not really fond of the " Lonely Planet " .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
I 've just come from there . Something interesting to note - unless you go really touristy - Mongolians traditionally use wooden saddles , something I was NOT expecting to see :) They and Kyrgyzstan share quite a lot of the same culture , including horse riding , and the nomadic / semi nomadic lifestyle . But at least the Kyrgs do n't use wooden saddles ;) In both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan ( and indeed in parts of Kazakhstan and Siberia ) there were frequent horse riding opportunities - from a few hours to several days . I 'd decide first what terrain you 'd like to do it on ( bearing in mind it can get quite painful in the saddle if it 's new to you ) , and then find a country with that . Both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan are fairly cheap to live in , but the tourist activities in Mongolia struck me as being very overpriced . I preferred Kyrgyzstan for the CBT approach ( Comunity Based Tourism ) . You can email the CBT and ask about tours or suggestions . From what I saw , I 'd suggest perhaps doing it from Cholpon-Ata just near Lake Izzyk-Kul . It 's a beautiful region and has both options of steep rides or open plains . And the opportunities are certainly cheaper , and you can recover afterwards on the beaches by the lake :)
None . I have visited all those countries and I was n't asked about insurance by any country ( we have free medical care back in my home country but I think that 's irrelevant ) . A note about your credit card 's insurance : if you plan to use it , just make sure you are eligible for it before leaving the country . In most cases , you have to buy the ticket using that particular card and/or have spent a minimum amount using that card . I tried to make a claim a few months back . It did n't really went good .
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
So , is there any information for how long I can apply after having this 1 year visa ? Yes , the Entry Clearance Officers are given guidance on what the criteria is . The conditions vary from country to country and what the other considerations should be . It 's in a document that is not available to the public because it contains country specific information that might get some people upset . If you try to get it using the Freedom of Information Act they will use their national security exemption to refuse . As a general rule of thumb , people with about 3 - 5 years experience at one expiry can move up to the next step IF they can make a satisfactory case . It 's different for each country/individual combination so you ca n't rely on somebody else 's experience to predict your own results . In some countries like Russia and Ukraine , the ECO will automatically upgrade qualified applications to a longer term and send an advisory to the applicant . Sometimes they will contact the applicant and ask them if they would prefer a longer tenure or not and then collect the fee differential . Most of the time this happens with family visitors who have built up a long , long record of performance . Other cases I have seen are for people who own houses in the UK and like to show up for the social season . Applications that rely on a business premise are rarer . Also in my own experience , most of the time it happens " automatically " ( i.e. , the ECO decides the applicant qualifies as a matter of course and upgrades the application without asking the applicant ) . They tell the applicant that next time they have to pay the full fee . And what happens if I apply for a 10 year visa and the consulate decides that this is too much ? Will they reject my application or just give me a visa with shorter validity period ? You can check the box for 10 years and they will duly consider it . If they decide you do not qualify they will issue one at the appropriate expiry and keep the difference in fee ( the fee pays for consideration , not for the tenor ) because they duly considered it . Based upon what you wrote , it would not be realistic to jump to a 10 year visa when your current one is 1 year . You 're missing too many intermediate steps . But that 's a guess . Or they might call you in for an interview to get a clearer picture of your circumstances and issue you a 2 year visa if you qualify .
Driving the road is 830 miles and not that hard except for the narrow roads , blind curves , etc. . There are villages all around the coast of Iceland . <URL> . Now driving in the unpopulated highlands ( the desert part in the middle ) means driving in areas where there are no gas stations , no farms , no towing and you may have to drive across rivers . Here is a <URL> of driving in Iceland . As you can see , at the time I 'm writing , most all interior roads are impassable . The roads do open up in the summer . Travel guides advise taking spare parts and gasoline . One of the highland roads , <URL> , has an interesting name -- it means Bursting-sand , as in the trail that was long and dangerous enough that you 'd ride your horse as fast as possible ( until they burst ) , or else you 'd run out of food or run into dangerous weather along the way .
A car is definitely a must have to visit the Loire valley . You have independence , and you can find some beautiful castles and view the country . But you can go to some castles by train from Tours . Here are some examples : Chenonceaux : you can take the train from tours to Chenonceaux and walk to the castle . It can be beautiful because you have to cross the French garden . Blois : can be reached by <URL> ( = regional train ) Chambord : can be reached from Blois For biking , you could visit <URL> or see <URL> . The map is good but only available in French .
I use momondo.com . They aggregate results from other travel agencies and they offer a nice map search feature . Find your city on the map , find the conference venue and then look for hotels nearby .
This is taken up in Article 15 of <URL> ( otherwise known as the ' Schengen Visa Code ' ) , which says ... The insurance shall be valid throughout the territory of the Member States and cover the entire period of the person 's intended stay or transit . The minimum coverage shall be EUR 30 000 . and for the case of multiple entry Schengen visas ... Applicants for a uniform visa for more than two entries ( multiple entries ) shall prove that they are in possession of adequate and valid travel medical insurance covering the period of their first intended visit . So any day ( or partial day ) that the applicant is in the zone , these paragraphs would apply . To calculate the minimum coverage , add up the days between arrival and departure inclusive and you will meet the requirements of Article 15 .
Technically yes , the terms under which a Schengen visa is issued require you to have health insurance up to a certain amount of coverage . You may be asked for proof of this in the form of health insurance documents when you 're entering the Schengen zone and/or at any passport control checks . In practice though , it is unlikely that you will be asked to provide documentation for this . However , travel health insurance is still a good thing to have as hospitalisation costs in case something does happen can be expensive . You do n't need to get an expensive policy ; at least in the UK , you can get short term travel health policies which cost less than # 10 . Even though these policies may have high deductibles , for serious accidents they will still help you recover medical expenses .
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
I think you want an extension ticket , but see below . <URL> The idea is that you need to have one ticket that 's valid for your whole trip . Technically , on the journey out , you may step off the train at the last zone B station , validate the ticket , and step back onto the same train . But unless you know exactly where the validator is on the platform and position yourself accordingly , you 'll be stranded until the next train comes . On the return journey , you need to validate your single ticket at the start of the journey , and you 're supposed to step off and back on at the first zone B station . Technically , if a ticket inspector happens to step on at that point and realizes you did not have a ticket for the whole journey , the rules state that they should fine you . There is a different ticket , the <URL> ( Anschlussfahrschein ) , which is meant for use in combination with an ordinary A+B ticket to prolong one trip into zone C ( or start in zone C and continue through zone B and optionally A ) . This ticket is explicitly not allowed in combination with the A+B <URL> or with the A+B <URL> . I ca n't find a definitive reference regarding its validity in combination with a daily , weekly or longer ticket . The <URL> only explicitly excludes " WelcomeCards , CityTourCards , Schulklassen-Tickets und FamilienPass-Monatskarten " , so I surmise that it is valid in combination with other passes , but please confirm with a ticket office first ( and report back ! ) .
end question
start question
What times do hostels allow you to check in ?
Typical " earliest checkin " times are between 12:00 and 16:00 - but if your concern is luggage , it 's not really relevant as pretty much all hostels and hotels offer to safely store your luggage for you before checkin and after checkout . Some Hostels additionally have personal lockers , since dormitories are more or less publically accessible , so you do n't want to leave valuables in them .
As Murphy 's Law dictates , the very next Google search I did for this info after giving up and submitting it as a question here , was successful ! <URL> : Sydney Airport opening times are : T1 International terminal is opened everyday from 3AM to 11:00 PM ( 0300 to 2300 ) • Customs are opened for departures passenger processing at 4AM daily ( 0400 ) T2 Domestic terminal is opened everyday from 4AM to 11:00 PM ( 0400 to 2300 )
One time checking a backpack in for Virgin Atlantic I was offered a giant , durable , resealable ( great for security checks ) , clear plastic bag , similar to a trash bag but thicker , with the airline 's logo on it , to prevent any straps or hooks from getting caught in the baggage handling . Since that flight I 've found that most legacy airlines have these . I 've often encountered check-in agents that did n't know their airline had these , but in every case they asked their colleagues or manager and discovered they did . I 've never been charged for one . I 've gotten these in Europe , Asia and North America .
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
Agreements tend to be reciprocal ( although I would not be surprised if some were n't ) but many countries also simply decide unilaterally to grant visa-free entry to citizens of other countries . You do n't need an agreement for that . For example , compare <URL> ( certainly a very open country , on paper ) and <URL> . While I do n't know any ranking for that , it seems Haiti could be both one of the most open countries and one of those whose citizens suffer from the most restrictions ( to the extent that Wikipedia 's info is correct , of course ) . The <URL> ( however , unlike Haiti , <URL> ) . <URL> and <URL> do not require a visa to visit , from anyone .
I contacted the Guernsey Information Centre , North Plantation , St Peter Port , GY1 2LQ Email : info.centre@cultureleisure.gov.gg There response was simply : " Sorry we do not have hostels in Guernsey only normal camp sites "
This is a standard clause found on tourist visas for many countries . What it basically means is you can not legally seek employment within Australia or its territories or be employed by any entity in Australia and receive income from it . So checking your work email or working offline or even online for their employer outside Australia does n't violate the terms of their visa . But IMHO violates the term vacation .
You do not have to use the body scanner for TSA Pre-Check . Most of the time they do n't even have the body scanner in that line . And when I go to an airport that does n't have a separate TSA pre-check line , like LGA in NY , they give you a card that says TSA pre-check and they send you through the metal detector . Even if you do n't have pre-check you can opt not to go through the scanner , but then they pat you down . If you do n't have it and are thinking about getting it I highly recommend it . Do n't have to take your shoes off or anything . So much easier . Like the old days of traveling . As a side note , when you think about it , you ca n't go through the body scanner if you have pre-check , because you have your shoes on and possibly things in your pockets so the body scan will always fail .
My parents live in Anuradhapura and I live in Kandy , and I make this trip up and down at least once a month . The earliest Intercity from A/pura to Kandy is at 4.30-5 AM from A/pura . Reaches Kandy at about 7.30 AM , depends on the traffic . The last bus departs at 7.30 PM , reaches Kandy at 9.30-10PM but you will not find any other buses in A6 road ( Kandy to Mahiyangana road which has many tourist hotels ) , Three-wheelers are available but expect to pay a slightly higher price . For A1 ( Kandy to Colombo ) , you will find a bus even at the mid-night . Kandy to A/pura buses are available every 30 mins from 6.30 AM to 6.45 PM . You can call +94252225257 ( A/pura bus depot ) and ask them if they have buses available . Also , there are 2 routes in between A/pura and Kandy . 42 and 43 . A/C buses are only available in 43 because the 42 is a little bumpy road near A/pura . Buses in 42 route , IMO , are very uncomfortable compared to 43 's .
Call the airline to see if they have any suggestions . <URL> In the event you arrive at the airport without valid identification , because it is lost or at home , you may still be allowed to fly . The TSA officer may ask you to complete a form to include your name and current address , and may ask additional questions to confirm your identity . If your identity is confirmed , you will be allowed to enter the screening checkpoint . You may be subject to additional screening . You will not be allowed to fly if your identity can not be confirmed , you chose to not provide proper identification or you decline to cooperate with the identity verification process .
It appears this is not possible for the Big Three US airlines . In fact , your assertion that " I know airplanes have " refrigerators on board seems to be not true in general . <URL> : " Our aircraft do not have refrigerators on board , so please plan accordingly . " <URL> ( under Special Concerns : Medicine ) : " Airplanes do not have refrigerators on board , so plan for methods to keep medications cool , if required . " American Airlines : Could n't find authoritative information , but <URL> is a post from someone who <URL> as an AA employee , saying " We can not refrigerate medication for you . "
The level of support offered by embassies will vary widely from each foreign embassy / consulate to another . A couple of standard support measures provided though are : Contact family members to pass messages along Provide details on contact information on local lawyers , and interpreters if needed . Depending on whether such a support system is available for your nationality , get you <URL> or provide loans for financial aid . Probably more important than what they do provide is what they do n't provide . Embassies do not directly provide legal assistance , immunity , or evacuation just because someone is in trouble with the police . If caught in such a situation , it 's necessary to manage expectations on what an embassy can do realistically . While it is n't always possible to know the local laws of a country , not knowing you did something wrong is rarely ever a valid excuse . Use common sense - and as a rough yardstick do n't do anything illegal in your own country - for starters . This is especially <URL> as they could use legitimate less-known laws or made-up charges to shake you down . Embassies will rarely , if ever , provide assistance in these situations unless something seriously goes wrong . Another thing that can help you receive assistance quickly is your country 's embassy offers any form of registration programme , so that they know your details . Probably not very useful or even necessary for short-term travellers though .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
No , you do n't ! From the <URL> of American Airlines AAdvantage program : You may accrue mileage only for purchased , eligible , published-fare tickets on qualifying routes used in accordance with all applicable conditions of carriage , tariffs , rules and terms of ticketing and travel . AAdvantage mileage accrual eligibility on airline participant routes is subject to change without notice . and even more clear : Certain airline tickets are not eligible for earning mileage credit . These include , without limitation , the following : all tickets issued as AAdvantage awards or other free ticket promotions including free or reduced rate tickets ; ... As you do n't get new mileage on AA , you most certainly also do n't get any on any other airline .
Seat selection information is available on Lufthansa 's site <URL> . Choose your seat free of charge during check-in All the seats which are still available can , of course , still be selected free of charge * as soon as check-in for the flight in question opens -- usually this is from 23 hours before departure . Please note , however , that by this time the choice of seats may be limited . Payment information for economy seating is available <URL> . <URL> Free seat selection is also available based on status .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
I know that some starwood hotels allow you to entirely skip the check-in process and simply walk up to your room and <URL> ; although this is n't anonymous . I also know of some hotels that allow you to check in as an alias ; but again , this is n't anonymous this is just an extra layer of privacy to prevent people from asking for you by simply calling the reception . It is also used as a layer of security by some . Truly anonymous clandestine checkin - where you simply open a door , walk up to the key rack , pick up your key and go off to your room , if there is such a place , I would definitely like to visit it . It may have been possible years ago , but this day of cross border terrorism and whatever else , data collection has become a sort of fever for any and all jurisdictions that hope to attract any kind of tourist dollars . You may have been able to do so previously , but I doubt you can today : Even if you use a pre-paid anonymous card , or have someone else pay for your room booking , you need to show proof of who you are when you arrive to collect the keys . The name on the reservation has to match the person asking for the key . This name can be an alias , but that is not the definition of anonymous . Further , it goes towards security and liability on the part of the hotel . God forbid there is some incident - say a fire or other such security issue , they need to know who is checked in where , who is accounted for , etc. . As mentioned by others , some jurisdictions mandate collection of hotel guest data as part of their overall security procedures/requirements - if they do n't they are breaking the law and may be subject to fines or worse suspension of their license to operate . It may be true that you are able to skip a lot of this formality if you use more informal means of stay ( like airbnb , hostels , or staying with friends/colleagues ; room sharing ) but I do n't think that was in scope of your question .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
It is not a pleasant situation for both of them - the passenger or the large passenger . It is very uncomfortable for the passenger and totally embarrassing for the large guy . In addition to that , it is uncomfortable and embarrassing for the staff . Unfortunately , there is no one single rule that applies here ; each airline has its own policy regarding this . What you should do before the flight takes off If the large person 's body is invading your space and you have noticed this during boarding , make sure to speak to one of the cabin crew members immediately . Make it their problem . You are paying for a seat and it is your right to get a full seat , not a part of one . Remember , the only time you can report this case is on the ground . It is the perfect time for crew or ground staff to find another seat either for you or for the large person , or to find another solution in the case that there are no spare seats . Once the doors are closed and the plane is moving without you talking about it , you have given complicit agreement to this situation and no one can do much about it in most cases . What the staff will do This depends on the airline . Some airlines make large people pay ; some others upgrade large people to business or first class for free as a part of their services ( the airline I work for does this if no two seats are available in economy class ) . You could get lucky and get moved to a higher class and leave your seat for the other passenger . Either way , your problem should be solved before the plane takes off . Things to keep in mind This is an odd and embarrassing situation . Make sure to talk in private with the cabin crew to avoid embarrassing the sized passenger publicly . Depending on the airline , the sized passenger can be deplaned from the airplane or asked to pay for an extra seat . You may also be asked if you would like to wait for another flight ! Anything is possible if no extra seats are available .
Getting to and from Heathrow By train The <URL> and <URL> services will operate as usual . Neither do usually accept Oyster cards , but it might be worth checking on the day . They both terminate at Paddington station ; the Connect stops at several <URL> . Travellers could get the Connect to Hayes and Harlington , then leave the train and touch in with their Oyster . All trains ( including the Connect ) accept those form that station , it seems ( but you will have to leave the train to touch in ) . By bus or coach <URL> offers connections to Central London ( e.g. Victoria station ) , and you can take <URL> ( TfL ) buses ( make sure to untick the Tube option on the Journey Planer options page ) . They will take a long time , and you will have to change a few times ( Hounslow , White City or Hammersmith , most likely ) , but they will get you there . Plus they take the Oyster card , and there are <URL> ( see legend/map keys ) . See <URL> for travel to other destinations . ( Cf. <URL> . ) Other means of transport You can get a black cab ( <URL> , especially from/to LHR ) or a taxi ( usually cheaper , but ask ) , or even <URL> . <URL> has more information . ( Update : <URL> , taxis in London are synonymous to black cabs , while minicabs are " private hire vehicles " - which I - but possibly nobody else here - call " taxi " , probably because that 's the word I 'd use in German or French . Black cabs can be hailed ( or flagged down ) , the drivers are very knowledgeable and they are generally more regulated . Hence the higher price . <URL> . So , to summarise , a black cab is a taxi , and a minicab is n't , but will still get you home or to the airport . But you could always get an <URL> car if unsure , I suppose . ) Transport around the airport Transport within the <URL> is - you guessed it - free on certain local buses and trains ( but not the tube ) . Elsewhere <URL> connects London to Heathrow , Luton , Stansted and Gatwick . This is your best bet for LHR-Shepherd 's Bush , by the way . Remember , National Rail in <URL> , TfL Overground , DLR , Tramlink , Buses ( <URL> ) , Riverboats and the Airline ( cable car ) should all operate and should accept Oyster cards ( although not all accept weekly Travelcards , I think ) , so once you 're in London , <URL> outside of the rush hour should n't be a problem . To the contrary , you 'll actually be able to see the city much better that way . :) If you have a UK address , you could also join a <URL> ( see the page 's right-hand column ) , but do n't expect to find a car during a tube strike ... ;-) Ride by bike ( for the adventurous and daring ) TfL <URL> ( previously sponsored by Barclays , and locally known as Boris Bikes , after the current Mayor under whom they were introduced ) are available throughout travel zone 1 and parts of travel zone 2 , and they should be available during a strike , but I have had mixed feelings about them : They are fun to get through the Royal Parks ( although not all paths are open to cyclists ) and on side roads a bit away from the busy city centre . In the touristy bits of London , though , there are n't many dedicated cycle routes , and you 'll often have to share a lane with buses and taxis . Buses , by their nature , are on a schedule , so they will overtake you , just to pull in right in front of you to stop at the next bus stop . And being chased by a bus makes for a somewhat unpleasant experience . On the roads , people will try to overtake you , especially at traffic lights , no matter if there is enough space or not , and often force you dangerously close to the curb , if you travel on the side of your lane . It 's therefore super important to <URL> , contrary to what you are used to from home . But even then , I was once nearly run over twice in the span of fifteen minutes . That 's why I now consider Boris Bikes the fastest way to your local A&amp;E . They do only take payment cards , but no Oyster . Also remember that people drive on the " wrong " - as opposed to the right - side of the road . And unless your suitcase has four wheels , taking it along might prove a tiny bit difficult . ;-) <URL> <URL> . You can pay using an Oyster card ( which is sold at all tube stations and some news agents ) or by contactless payment card . Bear in mind , though , that your card issuer 's transaction fee might well exceed the price of the actual ticket if you have a foreign card . You can load travelcards or cash on your Oyster , and daily and weekly ( Monday to Friday , I think ) capping is in place . Payment cards have daily and rolling weekly ( 7 days ) capping , I think . And if you have a travel card for any <URL> you get buses free in all of them , if I remember correctly . Oyster cards " cost " a 5 pound deposit , which you can <URL> when invalidating them at a ticket machine ( e.g. at the airport , when you leave ) , along with any unused cash loaded onto the card . Just make sure what remains on it is less than a tenner ; otherwise you 'll have to go to a ticket counter , fill out a form , and provide proof of address and maybe even a local bank account ( do n't know for sure about the last po
end question
start question
Traveling from Canada to Istanbul & Athens - 2 different passports ?
It is completely okay . I do similar things all the time , although the two passports I hold are both visa-free in most of the places I visit . The Greek official will not care whether you have a stamp from Turkey in your passport . She or he will be concerned only with stamps from Greece and other countries in the Schengen area , to determine whether you have ever overstayed your visa . Assuming you have not , there will be no problem . Of course , if the Greek official does ask about your travel to Turkey , or whether you have Iranian nationality , you should tell them that you are an Iranian national , and if it seems they want documentation of that , show your passport . In general , you should volunteer as little information as you need to , but always give any information that they ask for . I would add that I once entered Turkey with some Bosnian/Canadian dual nationals who did not have their Bosnian passports . Turkey is ( or was then ) one of the few places that Bosnians can go without a visa . I was traveling on a US passport , and my visa fee was something like USD 15 or 20 . The Canadians , entering on their Canadian passport , had to pay a fee of $ 60 , if I recall correctly . I think the disparate fee amounts are based on the fees that Turks have to pay for visits to the country in question . My friends regretted that they had not brought their Bosnian passports ; you 'll save a decent amount by remembering your Iranian one .
I suspect this is a result of Jet streams . This is most commonly observed by different flight times between the same cities . It generally takes longer ( 25 % or so ) to fly from Europe to the U.S. than from the U.S. to Europe . This is because the high-altitude jet streams across the Atlantic blow from west to east , providing a boost in one direction , and a penalty in the other . You can read a bit more about it <URL> , as well as many other places on google . The jet stream will either improve fuel efficiency and flight time , or hurt it , depending on whether the aircraft is flying with or against the wind . To help compensate for jet streams , routes are often altered one way or the other , to provide for the most efficient travel . This can lead to drastically different miles flown , as well . On aircraft equipped with flight status monitors , you may notice the discrepancy between two flights . Unfortunately , I doubt this will ever affect your frequent flier miles :) This would easily explain a difference in carbon emissions .
If you have only 2 weeks - 3 days in Moscow = 11-10 days , then forget about European part of Russia and go straight to Siberia . I do n't know why everybody suggests TSR , but personally it is very dull to sit in train for a week . First try to feel Moscow life rhythm . You will see later how it is different in Siberia . Then I suggest you to fly from Moscow to Yekaterinburg and move from there by train . IMHO Siberia gem is in its boundless territory with some scent of wilderness . You can feel it only by traveling by train or car . In Siberia you can feel that Moscow is far away from that region ( no wonder that fugitive serfs ran away to there to start a new life ) . Try to visit Tomsk , Omsk . Visit Kemerovo to see industrial Siberia , though I think that it is the worst city in Russia 8 ) Then go to Altai . Altai is a must . Krasnoyarsk is a must too ( Yenisei is a mighty Siberian river ) . From Krasnoyarsk fly back to Moscow . I do n't think that you would be able to see Baikal due to lack of time . BTW Altai also needs extra time , but if you traveling around why do n't visit it even for a while . Keep in mind that spring is time when ticks wake up from winter sleep . Siberia was always in front lines of tick encephalitis infections in Russia .
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
I found a decent ticket , 12 hours , direct from YVR to NRT , for $ 1200 CAD . Thinking I should snatch that up . $ 1,200 CAD should be considered a reasonable round-trip price from North America to Japan . Sometimes you see lower ( though rarely below $ 1000 ) , and sometimes much much higher . I would say that is around the average price these last few years , based on the flight price research I periodically do for myself or acquaintances making the trans-Pacific hop . I always hear different things . Early ? Late ? Certain time specific to the season ? You likely hear different things because there are very few universally applicable rules to flight-pricing , especially for trans-Pacific flights . Sometimes the best price is six months in advance , and sometimes it is a few weeks - it mostly all depends on that particular flight . I can say for sure that the most expensive time to fly to/from Japan is the New Year 's season , the first week of May ( Japan 's " Golden Week " ) , and the middle of August ( Japan 's " Obon " Festival of Lights ) . Scoring an average-price ticket during these times will be harder than most other times of the year . However , September is not an unusually busy season in Japan . 2 ) A friend may want to come with me by buying a ticket in 1 month from now . Does it sound like it should be OK ? I figure he probably ca n't get the seat beside me at that time , or maybe even the same plane One month in advance is pushing it a little bit , but it is not unheard of to find a reasonable ticket only one month in advance . I advise buying sooner if possible , and it is very unlikely that you 'll be on the same airplane ( or if you are , your friend would have to pay a lot of money ) .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
Travelling by cargo ship ( mostly container but also bulk or ro-ro , never heard anything about travelling on a tanker , presumably for safety reasons ) is totally a thing . More info and links to specific agents can be found in <URL> . Many websites advertise specific journeys but you can always contact an agent and see what they can find for you . The only US-based freighter travel agent I know is <URL> . It 's not particularly complicated but relatively slow and expensive and needs to be arranged well in advance ( you will also need a certificate from your GP and special " deviation " insurance -- to protect the ship 's operator against losses if they need to change the ship 's route because of you , e.g. in case of medical emergency ) . The price is not fixed nor based on distance per se but simply USD 90-110 per day ( + insurance , agent fees and embarkation/disembarkation fees ) , and crossing the Pacific takes at least 20 days , so around $ 2000 ( this also covers food on board , you get meals at fixed times with the ship 's officers , alcohol at the discretion of the captain , sometimes not at all -- it 's not a cruise , freight goes first and your entertainment a distant second ! ) . You could also go the other way around and cross the Atlantic ( on a cargo ship , a <URL> or a seasonal " repositioning " cruise ) and then go on to Asia by train or cargo ship . Not quick or cheap by any means but certainly a journey to remember . If you are prepared to go for less luxurious options ( <URL> or cheapest offer from Cunard , kupe on the trans-Siberian ) , you could probably manage it for $ 5000 - $ 7000 I think . A friend of mine went to Japan from Europe taking busses to avoid expensive Western European trains and buying a platskartny ticket directly in Moscow ( so one class below kupe , you get a bunk in a carriage with 50 other passengers ) ; it was much cheaper than a pre-arranged tour , possibly even competitive with the plane , but you have to love adventure ! Exactly where you end up on the west coast of the Pacfic Ocean is not very important . Once you have reached East Asia or the Russian far east , the last hop to Japan is not a problem , there are many ferries .
<URL> Witt Hotels has some excellent information on Istanbul , which I have personally used and recommend reading . I have not used the Istanbul tourist pass or Museum pass myself as I did not deem it worthwhile for myself and based on the ' attractions ' I wanted to see . <URL> <URL> <URL> for public transport To clarify , there are two passes , an <URL> and an <URL> The tourist passes have options to add public transport . <URL> Adult $ 75.00 USD , Child ( Age 2-12 ) $ 35.00 USD <URL> Adult $ 200.00 USD , Child ( Age 2-12 ) $ 140.00 USD Updated with recommendation : Get the 3 day Museum Pass for 85TL and Istanbul Kart to get around . Its cheaper and the additional " attractions " on the tourist pass are quite tourist oriented and may be marked up a bit . You can definitely get cheaper local alternatives for the cruise/ferry etc. .
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
The answer to all three of your questions is " It depends " . The only way you will get an answer is by asking the owner directly . If it 's beoing offered on AirBNB , then my assumption is that it is being offered much the same as any holiday rental . In that sense , the answer to 1 . can be inferred from if it is advertised as " whole property " or " private room " . 2 wil be at the discretion of the owner , and 3 . is likley to depend on the opinions of the owner and any local legal/regulatory requirements . As the boat is being advertised on AirBnB , my assumption would be that it is being offered in the capacity of accomodation that happens to float , rather than as a watercraft . Again , all the above is an assumption , you will need to contact the owner to know if that really is the case . If you are interested in a holiday on a yacht that moves around , then there are many services out there that offer this . Look for terms like " Flotilla " and " Bareboat " . There are packages both with you as the entire crew , or with an existing crew . It is n't cheap , but it 's also not so expensive as to be for the " 1 % " only . It could certainly be a fun way to visit some mediterranean cities .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
My wife and I have a travel wallet/organiser that we take on all trips . It 's a pretty dorky thing , but very handy . It 's made of nylon material , and is large enough so a sheet of A4 folded into thirds will fit inside , has a zipper down three sides and contains several pockets . It 's made by Eagle Creek and is similar to <URL> . We 've had it ten years and it 's been on countless trips and is still in great condition . In it we pack : Passports Printouts of flight tickets/boarding passes/hotel reservations and directions , stacked in the order in which they 'll be used on the trip Immunisation certificates Travel insurance documents Frequent flyer cards Scuba diving certification cards ( if we 're off on a diving trip ) About a third of any currency we 're taking on the trip ( the other two thirds divided between my wallet and my wife 's purse . The travel wallet typically lives in my carry-on luggage during a trip . For some trips , I 'll pack a separate set of printouts ( sealed in a large envelope ) in hold luggage . As an additional backup , any relevant electronic documents are in a OneDrive/Dropbox folder and I will have synchronised the documents to my phone before leaving ( in case I need them in a location where I have no phone reception ) . As the trip progresses , I 'll remove printouts from the wallet as they become redundant and stash them elsewhere in my luggage , ready to be <URL> . This may sound like a lot of pre-trip hassle and organisation , but it means that when we 're away we can get on with relaxing and enjoying things ! Below are a few photos of the travel wallet . It also has space for a pen - very handy when filling out landing cards and luggage tags ! :-) <URL> <URL> <URL>
Indian citizens are eligible for single entry <URL> . You should apply for your e-Visa at least 24 hours before your departure .
It is n't really the airline 's decision to choose which travel document you travel on . Yes , we all know for instance that you should enter the USA on the US passport ( by law -- if you have one ) , but should you enter the UK on your US passport or your Greek passport ? The document you use will depend on the purpose of your visit , and your own circumstances . And although we can advise which might be more convenient for most cases , it certainly is not the job of the airline to make that guess . Second , some people ( including airport check in staff who should know better ) assume that you can only have one passport , and that in possessing two you must be breaking some rule [ even if you are n't ] . If you have multiple passports issued by the same country , it 's even worse . Since the airline staff ( or contractors ) then do n't know which passport to enter in the system , or whether they are supposed to report this ( ! ) or something ridiculous , it can cause delays when they go away to find out from a supervisor or the station manager . So actually it 's probably better to turn up at each desk knowing which passport to hand over .
The Train looks to be quite a good bet to me . It looks like Kingston is on the main Montreal-Toronto line , for which <URL> . I just asked <URL> for details for a random weekday in about a fortnight 's time . There are 10 trains per day , a web special advanced purchase tickets start at $ 56 ( but are mostly sold out for 2 weeks time , so book early ! ) . Normal tickets are $ 65 - $ 89 , depending on how far in advance you book and how much flexibility you need . Oh , and if you do take the train , try to sit on the left hand side as you head towards Toronto - you get some stunning views out across the rivers and lakes from that side !
There are literally hundreds of ski resorts in North America . Flying in to any of the major ones will be no problem at all . Some of them have their own airports , and almost all will run shuttles from the nearest major airport . If you are used to skiing the best of the Alps then you will need to go to one of the really top resorts to get the same experience in North America . North American resorts have generally less vertical and on average less spectacular runs - but not by much . Unless you are a top class skier you wo n't notice the difference . North American skiing also works slightly differently to the Alps - the ski resorts own the entire area of the slopes , and you are expected to ski " within bounds " . That 's different from the ' village to village ' skiing that is normal in the Alps . The individual resorts are big , but they are n't linked like the Alps ; after a few day 's stay in one you will find you 've skied every run . North American ski areas are typically less crowded than their counterparts in the Alps , giving you more skiing per hour . Always fly the extra distance to get to the Rockies in the West . If you are used to the Alps , the East will disappoint , and the flights are n't that much longer . Some good places to start : Whistler Blackcomb is the chic , cool , place to ski - especially after the Olympics . You will pay a little extra premium for its cool factor , but the skiing is excellent . It also has good nightlife . Fly to Vancouver . Banff and Lake Louise are both top notch family ski resorts , a little less cool than Whistler , but better value . Banff actually has two resorts , Mt Norquay and Sunshine Village , and Lake Louise is only a short distance away ( with shuttles ) . Banff has some nightlife , but Lake Louise very little . Fly to Calgary . Fernie has a huge snowfall and masses of powder . Fly to Calgary . Panorama has an interesting mix of groomed cruising runs and untended backbowls . No nearby town , so the nightlife is what the resort provides . Heli-skiing available . Fly to Calgary . Calgary and Vancouver should be direct flights from major European airports . Finally , a <URL> for at least half the North American ski resorts .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
The first foreign language in all of Europe is English . In all tourist destinations you will find people speaking it , often enough of them that you might think everybody in the country can communicate in English . In a few months you will not have time to learn other languages , but try to learn the local version , for each of the languages , of ' good morning/day ' ' thank you ' and ' goodbye ' and use them with a smile . The mistake most people make is trying to do too much in too short a time . When I see your list of 5 countries I hope you have 5 weeks at least . Typically traveling between countries costs a day when traveling by train , most of a day when flying and leaving you too tired to do sight seeing in what will be left of the day . A day in Greece will cost you 3 days of your vacation , one to travel each way and one to sight see . Get out a good travel guide , libraries stock them and you will often find them in second hand book stores , and work out what you really want to see and whether it is worth it to miss two full days sight seeing for the time you have there . Each of the countries you mention uses the euro . Often the cheapest way to get euros is to use the ATM wherever you are . How much you pay , and whether you need to pay at all , depends on the contract you have with your bank . Contact your bank and find out whether your bank card is ready for use abroad and tell them that you will be using it in Europe , ( and tell them you arrive the day before you actually do , as some forget the time difference and have you ' arrive ' half a day after you actually do , ) and get them to tell you how much each use will cost . Some banks allow you to do all this online , but if in doubt , just talk with a real person of your bank . Your own bank should be able to get you euros to start you off , $ 200 would be a good amount , otherwise the exchange office at the airport even though it might be a bit more expensive , or the ATM in the arrival airport . Do carry some of your own money , like $ 200 , in case your card fails or you have other problems , cash exchanges are more expensive than getting money out of the ATM but having real money will always work better than money in a bank you can not reach . And if you do have a credit card , bring it . The best will be if it has pin and chip , but any CC will be useful in some cases .
You pretty much will have to go on a tour . It 's through a national park area , and in addition to that , requires extensive knowledge of the area - there are n't many roads as such . So you 'll go on a tour , and they 'll guide you through the border . So in that regards , yes , it 's very easy . You join a tour , and follow their instructions :) I can recommend Tierra Mistica , although our guide only spoke Spanish , it was a very enjoyable trip ( the tour at least , Uyuni did n't go so well for me , but that 's a different story ) .
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
end question
start question
Is there a museum in South Korea about defectors and refugees who escaped North Korea ?
Unfortunately , I do not have a positive answer to this question . I have been looking around the web for a few days now and I am almost sure there is no such museum . I have been through the <URL> with the help of Google Translate but with no luck . There is not even one comment about such a museum in any website . I think I can safely say such a museum does NOT exist in South Korea .
The " North vs South " divide exists . South Indians feel North Indians are loud , boorish , and have a superiority complex , and do not attempt to learn or respect local culture , language and such . North Indians feel South Indians are unfriendly , are sambar-rasam people . Both parties have some pre-conceived notions . In the end it depends on you , and the person ( s ) you are interacting with . Hindi is not a special language , and therefore it is not required for all Indians to speak or understand Hindi . I 'd try English first , then Hindi . So , it depends ... people who have to interact with travellers - this includes people who run restaurants , travel services , bus conductors - normally understand Hindi , even though they can/may not respond in Hindi . People in Tamil Nadu do not respond to Hindi very well . In Kerala , people know either Malayalam or English ... Hindi is not understood by most of the people . I know for a fact that North Indians get treated differently because they do not speak the local language . Bus conductors have been rude without reason , and I have seen multiple arguments and altercations every day on my daily commute . Food is awesome - it is n't just <URL> - <URL> - <URL> . Try the small <URL> for staple South Indian food . Try niche restaurants for a much larger variety of dishes . Do n't be afraid to try different flavours and concepts . Source : Living in Bangalore for the past 6 years . Lived in Kolkata before ( Bengali ) . Travelled to Kerala , Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh .
According to <URL> ( Twin City 's Slovakian partner ) : Selling points : the tickets in the FLORA TOUR Headquarters on Kúpeľná Street ( Bratislava ) , in the FLORA TOUR Office in the Passenger Port ( Bratislava ) or in FLORA TOUR Office at Schwedenplatz ( Vienna ) . In the Kiosk under Nový most ( Bratislava ) it is possible to make a reservation . The exact location of these selling points is available <URL> .
In Québec , a flashing green traffic light means that no cross-traffic can go , even the traffic on the same road coming from the other direction has a red light . This means that ( if allowed ) you can make a left turn without having to yield ( except possibly to pedestrians in the cross street ) . See e.g. . <URL> or <URL> advice on the peculiarities of driving in Québec . This is apparently purely indicative since <URL> does n't distinguish flashing and solid green lights ( § 363 ) . Note that in some other Canadian provinces , such as British Columbia , <URL> . On a related topic , note that a flashing red indicates that you must mark a stop , but may then proceed after yielding to all traffic that reached the intersection ahead of you : a flashing red is equivalent to a stop sign . On a solid red , you must wait for the light to change . As an exception , in Québec like in most of North America , you may make a right turn on a solid red after marking a stop and yielding to all traffic ; however some municipalities forbid right turns on red .
Besides more global solutions like <URL> , there are no ' local ' sim cards for multiple South American countries , comparable to <URL> . On top of that , South American cellphone networks tend to be somewhat fractured , meaning that out-of-the-way locations might only be served by one , or a few , of the nation 's networks . So , with a foreign sim card , you might be able to use multiple local networks , but , indeed , at a cost . If you expect to use your phone extensively , your best bet is to get a local sim card . However , also keep in mind that some countries will require you to register the card with the equivalent of a local social security number . ( I do n't know whether Ecuador , Peru , Chile or Bolivia need this , but Brazil most certainly does . ) But , some personal experience , I spent quite a few months traveling around South America last year and this year , I never really missed not having a local number . Wifi access is almost ubiquitous . And in places where it is n't , cellphone access tends to be an issue as well .
In most juristictions that operate with something approaching sanity , someone is liable for accidental damage in the following three cases : They caused the damage deliberately or with " blameworthy carelessness " . They have entered into a contract where they explicitly accept to be responsible for the risk . The law contains an explicit exception for the situation and says they are liable in the situation even without wrongdoing or contract ( " strict liability " ) . For example , in most places the owner of an aircraft is liable for any damage it causes even if the owner did nothing wrong and the one who suffered the damage is not a passenger . In the present question it seems that the only thing that could possibly apply is whether the passenger who reclined his seat would be liable under theory ( 1 ) . It seems to be easy enough to argue that he was being careless , but what a court will have to decide is then whether this carelessness was " blameworthy " ( my word , but different jurisdictions use various legal codewords for essentially this concept ) -- in other words , was or was n't he less careful that one could reasonably expect people in general to be ? I suspect that most courts would come to the conclusion that no , one can not in general expect passengers not to recline their seats when the airline provides a seat that can recline -- and no , one can not in general expect passengers to always ask they guy behind them before they recline , however nice it would be if everyone did that . So it will rule that the guy was not " blameworthily " careless , and ca n't be liable . You could certainly have your day in court trying to convince it otherwise , though , if you find a court with jurisdiction over the passenger .
If you buy any SIM card in China , you will have access restrictions . If you buy a prepaid card in China or Japan , you will not be able to roam data in another country for any reasonable amount of nmoney . The reason is that the vast majority of the customers want to buy a card only for that market . Ironically , you will have more luck abroad to buy such a card . Regarding the international roaming for example , you can <URL> for 8 pounds a day . Regarding the firewall , you will not get any guarantee that it will work . I use a <URL> and can somehow access all normally blocked websites when roaming in China , but no provider will advertise this at the risk of getting blocked . So if you can not find an offer abroad , you will have to buy one in each country , and chances are that you will not be able to circumvent the firewall . Unless you get a VPN service and connect through it .
There is no SanXingDui art museum in Chengdu , you have to go to GuangHan . The " museum " displayed by google maps is a store . Source : I asked friends . They confirm that the place in the streetview below at the location reported by google is a store and that the real museum is the one out of town in GuangHan . Details : Google does report a SanXingDui art museum in the city across from the WuHou park but as @dlanod points out in his excellent comment " the address [ ... ] seems to be lifted from <URL> which actually describes the same Sanxingdui Museum [ i.e. the one in GuangHan ] , and <URL> . " [ actually the website is down right now for me . ] Checking the map/street view of Baidu ( the Chinese Google ) for this place reveals a 三星堆玉器 , SanXingDui jadeware . Given the location in a shopping area , it seems to be a store for sanxingdui inspired ornaments . <URL> . Two friends from the area confirmed that this is merely a store . I reported the wrong listing to Google three months ago but nothing had changed as of today . The good museum is <URL> , 29km out of Chengdu . Update : A friend send me a picture that shows a sign for a 三星堆艺术馆 ( SanXingDui museum ) <URL> . However , as of <URL> that is only a sign with nothing behind it as of 2014 : Q : 三星堆艺术馆怎么样 A : 问了保安 ， 说是已经没有了 。 只有一个空招牌而已 。 Very loose translation of mine : " What is the 三星堆艺术馆 ( SanXingDui museum ) like ? " " Watch out . It does not ( / no longer ) exist . There is only an empty sign . "
<URL> and <URL> offer Free Wi-Fi , but no electric socket . As far as I know berlinlinienbus does n't offer Wi-Fi nor electric socket . Eurolines offers Wi-Fi and electric socket in the <URL>
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
The majority of the museums in Washington DC are run by the <URL> , and offer free entry to everyone ( with optional donations being accepted ) . There are also a number of non-Smithsonian museums , such as the <URL> ( free , but requires a timed ticket for entry ) , <URL> ( not free ) , and the <URL> ( also not free ) .
I 'm afraid you 'll have to learn Korean first ! From <URL> article from The Jeju Weekly : An after-school program for learning the dialect is offered in a couple of public schools . This suggests that it should be possible . The article even mentions an iPhone app about the <URL> , but I did n't find it . The Jeju Special Self Governing Province site has a page on the Jeju language ( <URL> , <URL> . The most useful part for you might be the contact name and phone number at the end .
Bring whatever suits you best . If you live in the Euro area there is no point in converting Euros into Dollars to convert them later into Won . You will loose twice from the exchange . Euros can as easily be exchanged into Wons as Dollars can be . Buying Won in Europe can be cumbersome and is not worth the effort . Credit cards ( MasterCard and Visa ) are also widely accepted . You can even use them to withdraw money from automated teller machines ( ATM ) . I usually bring a bunch of Euros , and exchange them progressively into Won . And I use my credit card intensively . This way , I end up using all my Wons and go home with some Euros in my pocket . But there are alternative valuable strategies .
You 're not going to " offend " anybody by giving them an unwrapped gift , but careful packaging will definitely increase the gift 's perceived value and the brownie points you get for giving it , and yes , this extends to " just " snacks . Quick primer : <URL> If you 're staying in a hotel , reception can probably wrap them for you or at least tell you where to get them wrapped .
Euros are your best bet . The North Korean won is not convertible , and all facilities for tourists price in and accept euros . Koryo Tours , the largest operator of DPRK tours , <URL> : Currency The official exchange currency in DPRK is now Euros ( USD were taken out of circulation in 2003 but can still be used though we advise you bring Euros ) . It is possible to exchange other currencies ( such as Pounds , Yen , Renminbi , HK Dollars ) in the hotel but be aware that the rate will not be in your favour , better to change the money before entering the DPRK . We do not recommend taking in travellers cheques as they are difficult to cash . Economic reforms at the end of 2002 mean that the DPRK Won is now valued at roughly 165 won to 1 Euro . It may be possible to get hold of real DPRK money in the hotel but the best currency to use when buying goods remains the Euro .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
You may not need your passport photo countersigning . If you can still be recognised between your old photos and your new ones , and you still have the passport , then you do n't need to get your photos countersigned - <URL> Everyone must send two new photos , but if you 've changed a lot and ca n't be recognised from the photo in your passport , then you 'll also need to get one of your photos and your form countersigned . Normal aging is n't considered a significant change and most people will still be recognisable . There 's also no mention of the need for countersigning on the <URL> Note that if you 're filling in forms or getting advice from anywhere other than gov.uk , you 're using a private company who may be trying to sell you something ( including a " service " where they just repost your passport to the government Passport Office and charge you an extra fee for it ) . If you 're appearance has changed so much that you can not be recognised If you do need a countersignature , <URL> detailing the process . It says that the person countersigning you must have known who you are for at least 2 years ( note that although your contractor nature shifts around , there must be people who you worked with over 2 years ago who you can still contact ) and either be ' a person of good standing in their community ' ( not defined ) or from <URL> : accountant airline pilot articled clerk of a limited company assurance agent of recognised company bank/building society official barrister chairman/director of limited company chiropodist commissioner for oaths councillor , eg local or county civil servant ( permanent ) dentist director/manager/personnel officer of a VAT-registered company engineer - with professional qualifications financial services intermediary , eg a stockbroker or insurance broker fire service official funeral director insurance agent ( full time ) of a recognised company journalist Justice of the Peace legal secretary - fellow or associate member of the Institute of Legal Secretaries and PAs licensee of public house local government officer manager/personnel officer of a limited company member , associate or fellow of a professional body Member of Parliament Merchant Navy officer minister of a recognised religion - including Christian Science nurse - RGN or RMN officer of the armed services optician paralegal - certified paralegal , qualified paralegal or associate member of the Institute of Paralegals person with honours , eg an OBE or MBE pharmacist photographer - professional police officer Post Office official president/secretary of a recognised organisation Salvation Army officer social worker solicitor surveyor teacher , lecturer trade union officer travel agent - qualified valuer or auctioneer - fellows and associate members of the incorporated society Warrant Officers and Chief Petty Officers Going off the sheer length of the list , it seems to me your must have a personal or family friend , or a business associate who has known you for more than 2 years who fits in to one of these categories . If you want to make sure everything goes smoothly If you 're unsure about any aspect of your application , the Post Office offers a service where they check over your application first to make sure everything is correct . It 's a bit more expensive , but you avoid the risk of making a rejected application that way ( and most offices that offer this service can also take the photos for you )
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
There is a document that allows you to enter the US whenever you want ( contingent on inspection and admission by a US border agent each time ) ... and it 's the US visa . Some can be valid for as long as 10 years and allow you to enter the country many times . Under US law , length of stay is an entirely separate issue . Unlike what you seem to believe , you would not typically get a " 90-day visa " . The visa can have much shorter or much longer validity than the time you will be allowed to stay in the US . However , you can not easily get a document that would allow you to stay " however long you want " . That determination will be made at the border but if you do more than one or two long trips in a row , you are going to raise suspicion that you are actually living in the US . For repetitive multi-month stays , I think you would need to seek an immigrant visa and resident status . Same thing if you cross the border many times and end up staying in North America for a long time . For those of you that do n't need a visa for short visits ( e.g. citizens from visa-waiver countries ) , renewing the ESTA every two years is the least of your problem . It 's relatively cheap and easy . It 's not being denied entry if you are spending so much time in the US without proper resident status you should be concerned about . Note that you would be granted 90 days of stay in the US on the first entry and <URL> so you would need to come back to Europe after three months . Once again , the length of stay is the most pressing issue , not renewing the visa or authorization nor leaving and entering the country repeatedly .
end question
start question
How to participate in sports-like recreational activities in Russia at local prices ?
Here are some techniques . Unfortunately the best ones require either knowledge of Russian ( or a Russian-speaking friend , hostel employee willing to help , etc ) , or skillful use of Google Translate : There are many " Groupon-like " sites in Russia , selling gift cards for various activities . They tend to be city-specific , so I ca n't point you to specific sites . Search for " подарки активный отдых ( city-name ) " or something like that . These sites list a lot of sports activities at reasonable ( local ) prices . Once you find an activity you like , see if you can find the website for the operator of that activity . The trick here is to realize that many small activity operators do n't have real web pages , but instead have pages on the VKontakte ( vk.com ) social network . You usually do n't need an account to access these pages , and they often have prices listed , direct cell phone numbers for the operators , etc. . Try asking people on CouchSurfing in the city you 're interested in to help you find and book the activities . Many Russian cities , even small ones , have active CouchSurfing communities , and there may be people there speaking your language . Just make it very clear that you 're not looking for a place to stay , just some help with the language and perhaps someone to show you around . Ask around in good hostels
Total duration : 3 to 3.5 hours When : All days of the week , starting at dawn . Start time varies depending on weather , so check with us Start Place : Dasashwamedh Ghat , by the Ganga Seva Nidhi office End Place : Phool Mandi Cost : Rs 2000 per person for 2 persons Rs 1500 per person for 3-4 persons Rs 1000 per person for 5-6 persons Rs 800 per person for 7-8 persons Our maximum group size is usually not more than 6-8 people . Payment is by cash on the day of the tour Includes : Knowledgeable English-speaking guide , boat ride , illustrated handouts , personalised walk , all taxes If you need pickup/drop from your hotel by car , please add Rs 1000 . You could find all aditional information about boating <URL>
October in Japan is going to be a lot like October in Europe and America , namely autumn . In Tokyo , <URL> , mostly clear skies but occasional rain , beautiful autumn foliage . Personally , late September/early October is one of my favorite seasons to be in Japan , second only to cherry blossom season around April . Not too hot , not too cold , and off-peak so not too many tourists . But if you 're expecting beach weather , then sorry , you 'll only find that at the southernmost tip around Okinawa ... and since Japan is a long and skinny country , there might already be a dusting of snow up in northern Hokkaido . There 's one catch though : October is the tail end of typhoon season in Japan , which could make a cruise pretty unpleasant ( and explains the high precipitation readings on the chart linked to above ) . However , the peak is Aug-Sep and the typhoons usually hit the Pacific side of the islands , not the Japan Sea side you 'll presumably be sailing on , so odds are pretty high you 'll be OK .
I just found the right tool for you <URL> , it does exactly what you want , it shows the path along with the day/night status in the exact position of the aircraft . It is a Windows Application ( from the days they used to call it program ) , click on the menu . Here is a screenshot ( the large red dot is the plane ) : And to answer the first part , you will have the sunrise above the ocean , the sunset somewhere above eastern Africa . Disclaimer : I am not the owner of the tool , I found it by searching , I scanned it and it seemed fine . Use it at your own risk .
Many pillows in hotels are decorative . You certainly do n't need to keep them all there . Generally you just put them to the side / on a chair / on the floor until you make the bed in the morning . It may also be easier if you tend to sleep in the fetal position , rather than stretched out , but it 's up to you to find the position that suits you best .
Things to consider : data roaming is very expensive you 're charged for incoming calls in roaming you 're charged local cost + roaming surcharge for outgoing If you have a sim-free second phone , your best option is to buy local sim . Pay-as-you-go ( called pre-paid here ) are very popular and inexpensive in Poland . You can get them as low as 5PLN ( $ 1.60 CAD ) . You can get 1GB data package for 25PLN ( $ 8.10 CAD ) . Comparison of current offers : <URL> Columns are different offers from various operators . Row groups : first 4 - price per minute to different networks ( " bezpłatnie " = free ) . SMS in the same network , different network , MMS , data w/o data package validity of the credit in days ( outgoing/incoming , depending on the credit you bought , eg . with 5zł " Play na kartę " starter you can make calls for 5 days and receive calls for 65 days before you have to recharge more credit , " rok " = " a year " ) extra packages ( most likely not interesting for you , except data packages ) .
These are entirely different classes of travel . Portugal + Spain is an easy trip within the usual Western world , close to home and without any significant apparent dangers other than the usual pickpockets and the expensive Euro zone . You can easily get home if needed ( regular flights from Madrid and Barcelona directly to TLV , connections through all around Europe from everywhere else ) . Russia , Cuba and China are different kinds of animals . Russia is an unstable place , other than in the central cities ( Moscow , St. Petersburg , provincial capitals , etc ) you are in danger . If you go too much south , you 'll get to the Muslim areas ( Chechnya , Dagestan , Azeri border ) where being an Israeli might not be healthy ( even relatively to the rest of Russia . They 're not big fans ) . You might not speak the language , you would definitely not know the local way of doing business , and you 'll be definitely paying more than a Russian-speaker for everything . Much more . If you stay close to the central places you would be relatively safe , but there were Israelis coming home without fingers from Russia , as you probably know . ( FYI for all the haters - lived in Moscow for several years , I know what 's going on there from my own experience ) China - same about the language and the cost difference , but ( IMHO ) much safer for foreign travelers . English spoken in the big cities , talk to younger people ( accent may be horrible though ... ) Cuba - FAAAAAAAAR . If you go to European parts of Russia , or Portugal + Spain - you can go for a week or two . Going all the way to Cuba ( or China ) for a week - a huge waste . If you 're going for a long time though it might be very interesting , and I would suggest Cuba as the best candidate . It is very unique , and will , likely , disappear ( in its current shape ) in a decade or two . Once the Castro 's are gone , my guess is that Cuba will get back to the close ties with the US it had before , and will change significantly .
Websites for comparing US air travel prices : Aggregators <URL> <URL> Online Travel Agents <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Other Airline websites ( e.g , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. )
Very simple : From the <URL> last sentence . A federal or state law enforcement agency may request the denial of a passport on several regulatory grounds under 22 CFR 51.70 and 51.72 . The principal law enforcement reasons for passport denial are a federal warrant of arrest , a federal or state criminal court order , a condition of parole or probation forbidding departure from the United States ( or the jurisdiction of the court ) , or a request for extradition . The HHS child support database and the Marshals Service WIN database are checked automatically for entitlement to a passport . Denial or revocation of a passport does not prevent the use of outstanding valid passports . So if you have a passport that is valid . Until you 're in the country that shares information with country revoking the passport and chooses to comply with this revocation the only country you 're not going to be able to enter would be the country issuing the passport .
To visit a fair falls <URL> , if it is part of your job , when being sent over by a foreign company . Specially if you want to do negotiations or even sign contracts . So you would need a business visa . If the fair you are visiting is an industrial fair such as for machinery or trade , you will need a business visa . However , there is conflicting information for this . <URL> claims that as long as your trip fits into the time needed for a tourist visa , you can get one no matter what the purpose of your trip is . I would recommend contacting your local Russian embassy or consulate and simply ask them .
Visa applications for Australia can be done completely online ! ( For Australia ) So firstly , to confirm , yes <URL> . Then , apply for it online . There are <URL> . Travelers are not required to visit the Australian embassy nor send in their passports . Once online visa applications are approved , applicants will receive their visa by email , which is recognized by all airlines traveling inbound to Australia and provided that all your travel documents are in order , you should have no trouble boarding your flight to Australia .
I would check with <URL> and see if there any issues upon arriving . In October 7 there is a <URL> , and in <URL> section you can see that there are festivals that will take place around November-December 2016 . Adding to @Johns -305 the bayou does flood every year and they have systems to clear out the water and restore the water level . Also , November is part of the dry season , and there is almost no rain . Breaux Bridge have several lovely sites to see , I lived in Baton Rouge for several years and it was one our favorite weekend getaways . Just a lagniappe ( little something extra ) : Cafe Des Amis . You must arrive at Saturday morning . They have <URL> . Make sure you stand at the door as early as 7:30 AM to get in .
It 's a common problem I had in South America - I really wanted to improve my Spanish while travelling as it gives you a much better insight into your travels , and can talk to locals more . But so often they 'd just switch to English because they welcomed a chance to learn English themselves . You can either do the obvious ( ask them to speak French so you can learn ) or what I did occasionally - we 'd hold dual-language conversations - I 'd try speaking in Spanish and they 'd speak in English , as it gives you speaking practice - the hardest of the language skills , in my opinion . Alternatively , you can switch - you speak English , they speak Spanish , and you both get to practice listening skills in the language . Remember that travelling is a shared experience , they welcome visitors to their country ( well most of them do ) , and if you can both benefit from a conversation , everyone wins !
To have an idea of the prices you can go to the <URL> ! And when I read the menu web page , it tells the " chef 's recommended course " is worth 30,000 yen , which is around 300 euros .
Here are some techniques . Unfortunately the best ones require either knowledge of Russian ( or a Russian-speaking friend , hostel employee willing to help , etc ) , or skillful use of Google Translate : There are many " Groupon-like " sites in Russia , selling gift cards for various activities . They tend to be city-specific , so I ca n't point you to specific sites . Search for " подарки активный отдых ( city-name ) " or something like that . These sites list a lot of sports activities at reasonable ( local ) prices . Once you find an activity you like , see if you can find the website for the operator of that activity . The trick here is to realize that many small activity operators do n't have real web pages , but instead have pages on the VKontakte ( vk.com ) social network . You usually do n't need an account to access these pages , and they often have prices listed , direct cell phone numbers for the operators , etc. . Try asking people on CouchSurfing in the city you 're interested in to help you find and book the activities . Many Russian cities , even small ones , have active CouchSurfing communities , and there may be people there speaking your language . Just make it very clear that you 're not looking for a place to stay , just some help with the language and perhaps someone to show you around . Ask around in good hostels
The museum is quite small - 2 or 3 rooms , as I recall . Reviews on TripAdvisor suggest 1-2 hours , depending on whether you care to watch the the half hour documentary on his life . Personally , I did n't watch the entire film , and probably spent under an hour there , and I felt like I had a fairly comprehensive view of all the exhibits . Obviously if you 're an artist or someone who can view the exhibits at a much more detailed level than I can , you could take longer . I would recommend <URL> and asking how long those take .
It appears <URL> . All of this answer will be based on the info there but since you seemed not satisfied with it you should come back here after your trip and give an answer based on your personal experience . As reported in the forum post , there are ATMs in Beyneu so you can always withdraw some tenge . I also see <URL> so you might also be able to exchange if you prefer . <URL> . It says ATM 's ( bankomat in Russian ) are found on every major street in big cities . You can withdraw money with Visa , Mastercard or Maestro . The occasional refusal of your card is to be expected , but most ATM 's accept a wide range of foreign bank cards . In smaller towns , there probably will not be an ATM available for cash withdrawal . I 'm not sure if Beyneu qualifies as a big city so that one is up for judgement , but it also says : Currency exchange in Kazakhstan can be found on every street corner . Rates are competitive , once you leave the airport or train station . Main currencies that are traded with tenge are US dollar , Euro , British pound , Russian rouble , Kyrgyz som and Chinese yuan . so you will find some way of getting enough tenge I 'm pretty sure . If not , as pointed out in the forum , you should be able to pay your ride with dollars at a less advantageous price .
Do not worry , Wifi pass phrases for personal use should only be in <URL> , in other words English characters . They do not support Unicode or other codepages . For more details check the <URL> . Except if you are redirected to a webpage for authentication , that 's a whole different story and Karlson 's answer is applicable .
Yes : more specifically , the staff canteens at the airport are open to the public , serving authentic and tasty Singaporean fare at rock-bottom prices ! Despite the name " canteen " , these are mini-hawker centres with a dozen or so independently run stalls each specializing in specific dishes/cuisines . There are at least two of these . The one you 'll never find by accident is next to Terminal 2 : head out from Customs , turn left , cross the road , enter the carpark ( 2A ) and take the elevator up to level 3M , which is marked " Staff Canteen " . Here 's the illustrated journey , photos mine : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> The less exciting one is in the air-conditioned shopping mall below Terminal 3 , between the MRT station and arrivals .
If you pay by Dollar ( or home currency ) The hotel will add a charge for this , hence you will be paying more . If you pay by local currency the exchange rate will be decided by the credit card company or bank . These exchange rates are much better than the hotel rates . <URL> for more information regarding this service for Visa holders . AFAIK , Other companies have similar services so this applies to all other credit cards .
end question
start question
When is it that you ca n't reserve a specific seat on a plane beforehand ?
There 's really two different issues here - that of pre-selecting seats , and that of how check-in works with multi-airline itineraries . As far as pre-selecting seats , every airline has different policies . Specifically for SAS , they allow you to pre-select seats only if you has elite status with their frequent flyer program ( Eurobonus Gold ) , or on flights to/from the US regardless of status . Some other airlines will allow it at time of booking , some only allow it if you pay an extra fee , etc. . The specific airlines website should give you the details there . The second issue is checking in with a single connecting itinerary with multiple airlines . Again the exact rules will vary here depending on the airlines involved , but in general you need to check-in with the airline that is flying the first leg of your journey - in this case , SAS . Depending on the agreements between the airlines they may be able to also check you in for any additional flights with other airlines , or they may not be able to - in which case you would normally do so once you arrive at the transfer airport . In these cases seat selection again depends on the specific carriers . eg , if you were flying Emirates followed by SAS then within 22 hours of the flight you would be able to go to the SAS website , select " check-in " , and whilst it will not actually allow you to checkin ( as the first leg is with EK ) it WILL allow you to select seats ! In short , there is no simple or single answer to what you 're asking . Most airlines will publicize their rules for pre-selecting seats on their website - but be sure to read the full conditions to make sure that they apply to you , without needing status or paying any additional fees . Specifically for Cathay Pacific , they DO allow you to select seats in advance , regardless of status . If the website/travel agent you are booking on/with does n't give you the option , you can go to their website , enter your surname and booking number , and select your seats free of charge . British Airways on the other hand only allows you to select seats at the time of check-in ( up to 24 hours before your flight ) .
Upon landing at Abu Dhabi ; you and your luggage will be subject to an x-ray scan . At this point , any suspicious items will be confiscated . Although you are not importing items into the UAE ( as you never enter the country , but are in transit ) nevertheless any goods deemed inappropriate will be seized . You do run the risk of having the item confiscated but nothing more .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
I believe what you 're looking for is called the <URL> . 8 in | 19 cm Ruler Bottle Opener Can Opener Hard-wire Cutters Large Screwdriver Needlenose Pliers Phillips Screwdriver Regular Pliers Scissors Small Screwdriver Wire Cutters Wire Stripper but importantly , NO KNIVES !
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
Picking Dawson City as a representative worst case , you can see from <URL> and <URL> that it can snow a bit as early as late August , but the average snowfall for the entire month of September is less than 2 inches . From experience not too far south of there I can tell you it is generally warm enough during the day in September that any snow is unlikely to remain on the ground very long . A little bit of snow is not very dangerous in any case as long as the vehicle has half-way reasonable tires ( I.e. not big , wide slicks ) . It seems like the probability of a problem is pretty low .
Depends on the security measures of your departure airport . For example : <URL> All types of razor are prohibited . Therefore , passengers should not have any sharp objects with them or in their hand-carried baggage ( for example pocket knives , nail files , box cutters , razors , scissors , corkscrews , any sharp/pointed objects , etc. ) <URL> Plastic moulded razors are allowed , but razors that can be opened and razors with changeable blades are prohibited . I assume disposable razor = plastic moulded razor . Razors that have the blade set into a plastic moulding are allowed , but razors that can be opened and the razor blade removed are prohibited <URL> Disposable Razors ( including razor with removable razor blades/catridges ) are permitted . I believe the scissors you mentioned have length > than 4 inches , that 's why it was confiscated . Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches are permitted . Razor-Type Blades - such as box cutters , utility knives , and safety razor blades are not permitted . ( disposable razors and their cartridges are permitted ) My advice is to check the security section of your departure airport 's website .
You are not permitted to sit in a different cabin from your ticketed cabin unless you are moved there by the cabin crew ( say , there is a medical problem and extra seats are needed mid-flight -- though you 'd still probably get reseated in crew seats instead of in business class ) . " Self-upgraders " will be discovered very quickly and removed as a matter of policy on any airline . Why not allow people to move to empty seats ? One might as well ask why not allow people at the gate to fill empty seats in the economy cabin . The plane is leaving one way or the other , so those seats would be " wasted " too . But the airline must protect its revenue and minimize its costs . If it tolerated people moving up without paying , it would both disincent people from purchasing premium fares ( whether revenue or award ) , and also incur costs that it would not otherwise have had to bear . Seats on an airplane are priced according to how the airline believes it can make a profit , taking many factors into consideration . Premium cabin prices reflect the premium people ( or rather more often , their employers ) are willing to pay for a more comfortable flight and a more exclusive cabin , as well as the higher costs of operating : There are fewer seats for the given space , so each seat must cost more to make the equivalent revenue There is a higher grade of service in those cabins ; for example , there is a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers , and the flight attendants have more responsibilities ( e.g. addressing passengers by name , distributing pajamas ) . Flight attendants are expensive . The amenities in premium cabins are more expensive , not only to purchase but to prepare . In economy , your meal probably comes on trays that come straight out of the oven . In international first , you would expect your meal to be plated , which takes much more time and effort . It is already the case that when the economy cabin is full , gate agents will upgrade people who are high status frequent flyers and/or on very high fare tickets , according to each airline 's rules and procedures ( operational upgrades ) . American , Delta , and United indeed offer " automatic " upgrades to their elite frequent flyers on domestic flights . But even in these cases , some seats may go out empty . For example , the airline may be unable to cater enough meals for a full premium cabin , and the airline would not want to risk upsetting a paying customer by failing to deliver the promised level of service .
Give them your Canadian passport . From the US point of view , whichever one you travel on is the one you 'll be using and therefore , your citizenship . Example : I have New Zealand and South African , and travelled through the US on my New Zealand . Never need to mention the South African one - there 's never a question about it , apart from some forms asking your place of birth . You provide the passport to the airline for this trip - they 'll ask again . You could have a new NZ passport by now , or a different citizenship , so they 're always going to ask again .
I always have one or two plastic bottles with me . I empty them before I go through security and then re-fill them from a tap in the restroom in the waiting area . I 've done this many times , and security never asked about the empty bottles , and even if they do you can explain what they are for .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
In general the point of the medical component of travel insurance is to deal with acute treatement abroad and then if nessacery to transport you back home ( flying someone home on a stretcher is not cheap ) . Accidents do n't just happen when travelling , so if you feel the need for insurance against disablity caused by accidents then you should probablly look for something that will cover you all the time . It 's probablly also worth checking if any pension or life insurance policies you have include any cover for this .
This is a standard clause found on tourist visas for many countries . What it basically means is you can not legally seek employment within Australia or its territories or be employed by any entity in Australia and receive income from it . So checking your work email or working offline or even online for their employer outside Australia does n't violate the terms of their visa . But IMHO violates the term vacation .
Google Earth can do this . Click on the Sun-icon and draw the slider around until you see the sun rising : Example is from Google Earth 6.0.3.2197 . This is mainly suitable if you need only one place and time , not if you need full tables of many places and times . Also , of course , in mountainous areas the answer is extremely local , but no tool can give you an answer on a meter-precision , so unless you have a highly detailed digital elevation model , Google Earth is probably the most accurate you can get . Otherwise , you might want to ask over at <URL> .
Yes it is . You can make reservations for domestic trains and for trains to Montenegro via e-mail or telephone . You find the contact details on the <URL> .
I 've been in a similar situation many times when travelling during business hours to/from meetings - or , often , when going to the airport - where I 've had to jump in on conference calls where I knew it would be for the duration of the ride . I usually excuse myself before the call , letting them know that I 'm going to be on a call ( even if I 'm not talking ) . That 's usually okay with most black cab drivers : it helps them turn down the radio , etc for instance . Black cabs are usually partitioned anyway to separate the driver and the passenger ( s ) so it 's not that uncomfortable . ( If you 're taking a ride from Uber on the other hand I 'm usually more conscious of it since drivers rate passengers as well . I do the same thing by letting the driver know that I 'll be on a call . )
Because it 's difficult to tell apart a bottle full water from a bottle full of a chemical like hydrogen peroxide that could be used to make liquid explosives . There was <URL> that apparently tried this in 2006 , and because " passenger convenience " will always lose out to " bureaucratic ass-covering " when it comes to security theater , <URL> . ( Unless they 're under 100ml , so yes , you can take a 100ml bottle of water on board ... if you can find one ! ) In Japan , they 've already got <URL> . These are increasingly being adopted by other countries , and once they 're widespread enough , the liquid silliness will hopefully end . Note that while you ca n't take a partly or completely filled > 100ml water bottle through security , it 's perfectly fine to take an empty bottle through security , and fill it up before you board the plane . Or you can buy a bottle once you 've passed security .
end question
start question
Where to get Ghibli museum tickets : JTB or Lawsons ?
Here 's what I found out : While you can reserve tickets through Lawson 's website ( if you read Japanese ) , you have only 2 days to print your tickets out at a Lawson 's branch in Japan before they cancel your reservation . So it 's not a great option if you want to buy tickets in advance . It 's March 30th now , and the April 9th 10am slot is already sold out . On the other hand , JTB only has a limited number of tickets it can sell . So just because you see open slots at Lawson 's website , this does n't mean you can get a ticket for them from JTB . I tried purchasing tickets from JTB on March 27 and they had no tickets earlier than April 21 . In summary , if you want to ensure a visit to the Ghibli museum , bite the overhead and reserve it through JTB , about a month in advance ( probably earlier if you plan to visit during Japanese holidays like Golden Week or Obon ) .
You have four options , although you may need to wait for a couple of them ... <URL> houses permanent and temporary exhibits relating to sport and the Olympic movement . However it 's closed for renovations until the end of next year . <URL> in Hakon 's Hall in Lillehammer , was officially opened by King Harald V and Queen Sonja on November 27 , 1997 . It is the only museum in northern Europe that presents the entire history of the Olympic Games . <URL> used to be just a Sports Museum , but was moved to a new building in 2004 during the Olympic Games year in Athens , and was redesignated as the Olympic Museum . In 2014 , <URL> . Interactive exhibits will gather together London 2012 memories , show how the venues were built , and seek to inspire future generations .
Usually , depending on the country , an embassy or consulate is where you 'd go to , in order to obtain a visa . In your case , the nearest ( that I can find ) is the <URL> . 1233 West Loop South , Park Tower North , Suite 1150 Houston , TX 77027 (713) 961-3063 / 64/65 Fax : (713) 961-3070 E-mail : consbras@brazilhouston.org So they 'd be your most likely best bet for first point of call . For a rough idea of the documentation you 'll need to apply for your visa , have a look at the <URL> - they have a solid wall of information which will be of great use . If you 're really worried about the process , your travel agent would be able to help out with the whole thing . If you do n't have a travel agent , do n't worry , really , many of us apply for visas all the time , and while the wall of documents required sounds scary , as long as you follow the steps it 's actually pretty straightforward . Note that according to the Miami website , it can take 10-45 days to process depending on the method taken , so given you are travelling in March , I 'd get the ball moving on the whole process pretty soon .
AIT/FIA act as guarantors for the Carnet de Passages en Douane and the <URL> do not include Pakistan in an extensive list of countries under " Where to get your CPD " . Seems may not be available in Pakistan , but it might be worth contacting Automobile Association of Pakistan and Motorsport Association of Pakistan as these are both FIA members . The <URL> has some cost information , though other issuing organisations presumably differ . Sorry , that link is dead ( there is no longer any representative in the UK that issues CDPs ) .
Yes , you can go to Istanbul with your ID card . Generally speaking , Kris is right , you do need a valid passport , even for countries for which you do n't need a visa . But in this case , you can in fact enter Turkey with your national ID ( see <URL> and <URL> mentioned by Geeo ) . This possibility is only offered to citizens from a few countries ( not the whole EU ) but it 's the case for Italian citizens . Citizens from an even smaller list of countries can also enter with an expired passport but that 's not the case for Italy .
Paid : Free 30 Minutes of Wi-Fi <URL> Pay as you go : $ 4.95 per hour Day Pass : Unlimited access for a 24-hour period , $ 7.95 Unlimited Access : Unlimited access for a month , $ 9.95 per month Paid Wi-Fi available is some gates . Free ( Work In Progress ) : Terminal 4 - Jetblue offers free Wi-Fi ( sometimes ) Terminal 4 - Terminal 5 - Jetblue offers free Wi-Fi
This is <URL> . It costs $ 50 . It gives 3-days access to most places worth to visit in Florence and to public transport . About public transport , Firenze is not that big : everything is at walking distance , even from Santa Maria Novella train station . I would n't recommend to go downtown by car . Most historical places , mainly churches , are entrance free . Some places , like the Duomo , are equipped with pay-for-light machines .
It may not be the the exact controversies you are seeking , but Washington DC 's <URL> offers an immersive experience in the art of spycraft .
I do n't think you will find something as universal as Trivago , Skyscanner , Kayak for campsites but your friendly neighborhood <URL> can yield some results that will let you book at least some of the sites online : <URL> <URL> <URL> - For US National Park Service sites . There is probably more but you should be able to find them on your own .
Western Europe is divided north and south by the Alps . For this reason , there are currently no water routes that go all the way from northern to southern Europe . The closest thing for now to a pan-European waterway is a route along the Rhine to Bavaria , to a point just over 100 miles from the Danube . A canal connecting the two was completed in 1992 . This was in the " middle " Alps , still a relatively low elevation containing the sources of the two rivers . Note that while the Rhine goes from northwest to southeast ( upstream ) , the Danube flows mainly east to the Black Sea . So your " southern " leg really ends in Southeast Europe . There are several proposed canal routes . <URL> The most interesting of them would connect the Rhine in Germany to the Rhone in France , linking the north Sea and Mediterranean directly . That 's over hillier country than the Rhine-Danube connection . Another proposed connection is from the upper Elbe to the Danube , across the Czech Republic and Austria , also linking the Oder river in Poland . Those parts of Europe are not as populated or as prosperous as the Rhineland , which is why completion of the connections may take some time . As for reaching the Aegean/Adriatic Seas ? Maybe in another century or two across the Italian and Yugoslavian Alps . The connections mentioned above were envisioned in 1938-9 , probably in connection with World War II >
I was a night auditor ( see <URL> ) at two different hotels on the Central Coast of California ( specifically , San Luis Obispo and Pismo Beach ) in the mid-1990s . While some things ( mostly the technology ) has changed , most things are about the same . It would really help to know where you will be traveling , because California is such a diverse and huge place ( larger than many states and even entire countries ! ) . Weeks 30-32 are July 22-August 11 , which is the middle of summer . That 's better for finding a room than than June . From late May through mid-June , you have a lot of formal dances and graduations . If those events hit around the same time in an area , you may find that all the rooms have sold out in the entire region . For example , the graduation weekend for Cal Poly SLO ( a top university ) will result in sold-out rooms from Paso Robles ( nearly the northern border of SLO County ) through Santa Barbara ( middle of the next county south ) , which means you might have to drive well over an hour to find a hotel room if you did not plan ahead . I know this , because I had to literally call every hotel and motel I could think of to try to find a family a room that weekend . I finally did , but it was in Ventura ( 1.5 hours south ) . Night auditors are great resources . Especially on weekends , we keep track of ( or at least generally know ) which hotels have vacancy . If you arrive late , ask the person at the desk for recommendations . You might pay more ( usually the larger , more expensive hotels have vacancies when the smaller ones sell out ) . I also found that some B&amp;B s ( bed and breakfast ) had rooms left when the mainstream hotels were full . I sometimes had guests call me back to thank me for " upgrading " their vacation to a B&amp;B ( which they would not have thought of on their own ) . Bear in mind that you will be in about the warmest ( hottest ) part of the year , especially if you are visiting Southern California or the Central Valley . Temperatures may reach 100F ( 30C ) or higher ( especially in early August ) . The deserts will climb even higher , but drop to chilly temperatures at night . However , along the coast you will likely experience cool , foggy days in the 60-68F range . In the Sierra Nevada mountains , days may be quite warm ( 80F ) , nights cold ( 40F ) , with sudden thunderstorms or even rain . That also is fire season , so you may find areas you want to visit closed or undesirable due fires or heavy smoke in the air . The countryside will probably be brown and dry looking -- quite different from the lush green fields that you would see now ( in mid-March ) . Be sure to pack for a variety of weather conditions . Most hotels have laundry facilities on-site ( coin operated washers and dryers mostly , with upscale establishments offering dry cleaning ) , so you can get by with fewer clothes , but more variety . Layer your clothes . Bring tee-shirts , khaki pants ( like Dockers ) , a polo shirt or blouse , a nylon windbreaker , and , depending on where you travel , shorts , a long-sleeve dressier shirt , and maybe a medium-weight jacket . If you plan to visit high-end restaurants or night clubs , or if you will be visiting the San Francisco Bay Area , you might want to bring a complete set of dress clothing . Shoes can range from sandals/flip-flops , to sneakers or running shoes with good traction ( for the beach or hiking ) , to casual dress ( for evenings and dressier places ) . In the middle of summer , you probably do not HAVE to make reservations except on the weekends or if you plan to stay near the ocean , or a major attraction ( Disneyland , Napa , San Francisco , Sea World , etc. ) , or an airport . If you are visiting a small town , and there are limited hotels , I 'd also recommend a reservation . Weekdays ( Sunday night through Thursday night ) usually have lower occupancy rates , but , again , local events or conditions could quickly sell out all the available rooms . Most hotels will provide you ( if you ask ) a complimentary 6pm ( or 4pm if they are stingy ) hold for no charge , no credit card required . They know that they can almost certainly let a room between 6 and midnight , even if you do not show up . Be careful about giving out your credit card , because they WILL charge you for one night if you do n't show and do n't cancel by the required time . Note that a reservation guaranteed with a credit card is not a 100 % guarantee that you will have a room waiting for you . Many hotels offer their front desk staff incentives to fully occupy the hotel on weekends . That means a person staying in every room , even if there are no-shows ! It comes down to the front desk staff making guesses on how likely someone is going to show up or not . If you are going to be late , let the hotel know ! If it is after 8 PM , call the hotel to let them know ( or remind them ) that you are going to be late . If it is after 10 PM , call them again . If it 's after midnight and a weekend , call again . Seriously . You will be charged , of course , but at least you will have a room whenever you finally drag in . Final
You 're asking a bunch of questions , but , in short : There are plenty of cash machines in Colombia . There is no real need to bring much cash if you 've got a card that works . Whether you will be charged for withdrawing money from ATMs depends on your bank and the bank you withdraw money from . To avoid paying a ' convenience fee ' , typically , do n't use ATMs inside malls , gas stations , etc. , though not all of these will actually charge a convenience fee .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
Use <URL> to buy tickets online . This service supports payment by Visa and MasterCard . Also you may use Maestro card . As alternative , you always may buy tickets directly in airport . There are <URL> inside International Airport of Cancun . But remember to buy ticket at least 4-5 days before the flight . When you buy ticket on the same date - it costs much more .
You can get 1 - or 3 day ( tourist ) passes . More at <URL> . We used them a couple of years ago - they worked just as advertised .
Taipei to Keelung is effectively a suburban service , there are trains every 15-20 minutes and reservations are not required ( or even possible for most trains ? ) . And even for long-distance trains , advance reservations are generally not necessary , unless you 're traveling at peak season ( eg . Chinese New Year ) or on some special train ( eg . the Alishan Mountain Railway ) .
Yes , there is , and yes , airlines do have a group discount . This depends on a lot of factors however . I know dive resorts who charter one whole airplane every 5 days since they change the complete occupancy of their quite remote resort each time . You will never know until you ask though since the availability of open seats in regular airplanes is a main driving factor for the price .
Be aware that for the most part , you ca n't go from the US to Cuba , unless specifically authorized by the government . Most people go to Canada or Mexico and fly from there . From Wikitravel : Jose Martí International Airport outside Havana is the main gateway and is served by major airlines from points in Canada , Mexico , and Europe . There are also regional flights from other Caribbean islands . Cuba 's national carrier is Cubana de Aviacion , connecting the island to a handful of destinations in Mexico , South and Central America , Canada and Europe . Flights from Miami to Cuba are offered to authorized American passengers . Try calling Cuba Travel Services ( CTS Charters ) . They offer daily non-stop flights between Los Angeles and Miami to Cuba . There are also regular holiday charter flights to resorts such as Varadero , and these can sometimes be less expensive than those going to Havana . Please note that if you have purchased a oneworld ticket then further flights into America within that year will be disallowed through American Airlines . As for what is the cheapest , that 's hard to answer as airlines change their prices and ca n't be answered objectively and accurately as they 're subject to change . In addition , it 's not possible to search for flights on large booking engines ( such as Kayak ) due to United States travel restrictions . As a result , you need to be creative : use European booking engines or go directly to the airlines ' websites . On a large European booking engine ( <URL> ) you can find flights from Cancun to Havana on combinations of Cubana and/or AeroMexico flights , . The flight time varies from 1 hour 15 min to 13 hours , depending on connections .
end question
start question
Which trains in France are included in an InterRail card ?
You can use the InterRail with any train in France ( or Europe ) run by state railways except the Eurostar ( from Paris to London ) . If you 're going to use the TGV you have to know that reservations are mandatory so you 'll have to take care of that before getting into a TGV . When you 'll receive your InterRail it will contain some papers that tell you what train require reservations , maps and other useful informations so you do n't have to worry about anything . RATP is not supported because it 's just for Paris metropolitan area . As long as you travel between two cities ( towns , villages , etc. ) and the train is from SNCF ( or any other state railways company in Europe ) you can use your Interrail pass . And yes , www.bahn.de is the best when it comes to information about trains in Europe . I have found free rooms in all cities I 've been to but it takes so little to book a room that I highly recommend doing it because you do n't want to lose precious time searching for hotels .
They include what is says in the description and rarely more . Each offering is different , so there is no general answer to your title question . When booking with Expedia , make sure to open the details page , it always has additional information and frequently additional options such as including meals , larger or better placed rooms , etc. . Some vacations even include a rental car but you can always count on flight plus hotel , and almost always transport from the airport to your hotel and back at the destination . Expedia has the custom vacation option which lets you choose components and add them together with a discount . For that choose ' Build Your Own ' under vacation packages . Tours are available to for some destinations . While I understand the piece of mind of booking all at once , there is little risk booking the tour at the destination and it is highly advantageous . You will often be able to get a better price and considerably more options to tailor your experience . Even just being able to book after knowing the weather more accurately can save you from taking a tour in pouring rain .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
The charges ( " péage " in French ) are collected on site . On the roads subject to fees there are toll stations ( " gare de péage " ) where you will have to pay . There are two types of stations . In the first situation you have to pay a lump sum for using a given road section . In the second you get a ticket when you enter a section subject to fee . When you leave this section you will have to show your ticket and pay . If you enter your itinerary into the <URL> , you will see how much you will have to pay for your trip . You can pay by cash or by credit card . There are special lanes for people who want to pay by credit card . There is also a system called " Télépéage " . For that you will need a subscription . If you have it , you can use special lanes and drive through the toll stations without having to stop . The fees are then billed every month . This system only makes sense if you use these roads frequently .
There are basically two ways of driving through france . Through the " <URL> ( RN ) " , and the " <URL> " . The autoroutes are the quickest and most convenient network in France . However , if you have the time and want to enjoy the beauty of the countryside the route national provides a valuable alternative for driving through France . Another advantage of the RN is that they are toll-free , whereas most highways have tolls . As @Gilles already said the highways have regular rest areas , they are called " Aires de repos " . <URL> where you can find the offered services per rest area . This website is in French , and also not handy since it uses the French numbering ( Axx ) to search , whereas the Google Map used , uses the <URL> In general you have two types of " aires de repos " . The first being offering services like restaurents , service stations , sometimes a hotel , etc. . The second being the basic version with at most only lavatories . You can distinguish the two by the panels indicating the aires on the highways : The ones with extended services : ( Source : Google maps ) and those with basic services ( typically containing an icon with a fir tree ) : ( Source : Google maps ) Personally , I would not recommend staying the night at basic stops ( the ones with the fir-tree icon ) . The ones with services can provide a relatively safe stop to spend the night . Regarding the showering , some do provide showers , but it is not common . Your best chances are where the truckers rest as well . On the RN , the aires de repos with services are not that common . Usually you 'll find the services in the cities the RN connects . Just before entering a city check for the budget hotels . F1 , Camponille , and Ibis Budget are examples of budget hotels throughout france where you can stay and take a shower . They provide a very basic formula catering to drivers . They are open 24 hours a day . I have spent the night in my car while driving on a route national , but it is something you need to decide for yourself whether you are comfortable doing . I would not recommend staying at a supermarket car park at the city boundaries . Local bored youth might disturb your night 's sleep . What I do is search for a nice spot in the country side , park my car out of sight and take a nap . You can also buy or bring a tent and stay at the various campsites .
It depends on which trains you 're using , as they differ from service to service . A <URL> covers much of this . I 'll try and summarise : Sun and Ski Thalys - only guide dogs Thalys - small and guide dogs = free in a basket . Bigger dogs = buy a ticket . TGV - yes , but must buy a ticket and be in a box or muzzled and on a leash . Eurostar - only guide dogs . ICE - yes , with exceptions , tickets to be purchased . Domestic Netherlands trains - yes , <URL> apply : A small pet that fits into a bag or basket or can be kept on your lap may free on the train . For leashed pets you must purchase a Day Pass dog . Regardless of your destination this ticket costs $ 3 . Note that each rail carrier uses other terms and rules . If you have an OV-year subscription , you may take one dog free .
Yes , <URL> are deducted from your credit limit . That 's actually the whole point : it 's not there just for the minibar or laundry , but because the hotel wants to be sure they can charge your credit card for the accommodation at the end of a stay . The alternative to credit is cold hard cash , but depending on the hotel you may need to pay quite a significant sum . Alternatively , for longer stays ( like the 14 days you mention ) , you may be able to negotiate weekly payments instead of a single hold to cover the lot . Another alternative is to book fully prepaid rooms online , so you pay in advance and have your full credit limit available by the time you actually arrive . You may still be asked for a small hold/deposit to cover minibar etc , but it will be a lot less .
To answer my own question after my experience : You can collect Western Union payments in any " La Poste " that does Western Union . From my experience do the following : Write the Reference number in a clear and neat way on the cash receival form , from what happened to me the women mistyped the code and then said it was not her fault . Take more than just your Passport , have a drivers license there as backup incase they think you are a fraud . Have some French phrases prepared as the La Poste staff do not speak English very well and do not mess around , they will not go out their way to try and help you even if your a tourist . Prepare some French phrases and anticipate what they will say , for instance when they accused me of having the wrong Western Union reference number I said , " J'ai confirme sur la telephone avec Western Union " , roughly translates to that you confirmed the validity of the number . Go early , less people and queses and the staff will be less grumpy . I got my money in the end , but it was a stressfull experience . It really makes me appreciate the Royal Mail back in the UK . Hope this helps !
Note that the prohibition linked to only mentions checked or unchecked luggage , and not items you might carry on your person . I do not know this for a fact , but am guessing the rule is not influenced by the airline 's prohibition on knives and other sharp objects after 9/11 , but instead because trains are subject to quick , sudden jerks and jolts , both laterally and less often , front and back , and any large sharp objects such as those listed could rip through and even exit whatever they are packed in and present a hazard to others . So a knife blade contained within a so-called Swiss Army Knife should not be prohibited .
The French seem to go for very small and massive stores . There are some mid-size stores but these seem rather rare . In fact , the French are known around the world for exporting their retail chains and hypermarché [ hypermarket ] concept . These are most similar to American super centers , but genearlly have a focus on food and are between the size of an American supermarket and an American super center - they tend to be around 110,000 square feet ( vs. an average US supermarket around 60,000 square feet ) . In Paris you can find Hypermarkets including Auchan , Géant Casino and Carrefour Hypermarché further out from the center around and outside of the Boulevard périphérique . ( Note Casino and Carrefour also use their brands for smaller format stores so the adjectives are key to find the format you 're looking for . ) Also note that there are generally many speciality shops and market vendors in France , customers who are looking for variety or quality tend to frequent those instead of the often cheaper chain stores .
This answer is now out of date , since 28 degrees changed their T&amp;C s on precisely this issue in 2014 . The use ( without foreign transaction fees ) of the card for purchases remains unchanged . Original answer follows . <URL> If you put your card into credit and just withdraw your own money , you wo n't be charged cash advance fees . But if you withdraw their money , you get charged at credit card interest rates until it is repaid . It 's a way of avoiding the fees charged by the Australian banks when travelling abroad , but you might still get charged withdrawal fees by the local bank responsible for the ATM .
This should not be an issue in big stations . Usually they have an international ticket desk . Though my experience does n't include Germany , I was able to buy tickets for foreign trains in France ( for Italian , Spanish and Belgian trains ) , in the Czech Republic ( for Swedish trains ) , in Sweden ( for German and Italian trains ) , and probably others that I do n't remember .
There are only three operators in Australia that actually own and operate their own networks , and they are : <URL> , the former state monopoly . My usual recommendation if you 're planning to travel even slightly off the beaten track , since they have the widest network by a long shot , but a bit more expensive than the competition . <URL> , an arm of Singapore 's SingTel , and a good choice if you want to save a few pennies and are sticking mostly to the cities . <URL> aka Vodafail , the local branch of the multinational , infamous for poor coverage and network instability issues and recommended only if you 're a masochist . As a representative anecdote , two friends of mine who worked for Vodafone had their wedding in Yarra Valley , a popular tourist destination just outside Melbourne , and the winery they chose , 1 km off the main highway , had zero Vodafone coverage . Both have now quit , and neither uses Vodafone any more ! All three have booths just outside Customs at both Sydney and Melbourne ( and probably other major airports too ) . I 'm not going to go into plan details , since these change at the drop of a hat , but at time of writing ( Dec 2014 ) Optus 's $ 2/day with 500MB/day plan is about as good as it gets . It 's probably worth mentioning that comparing plans in Australia is ( intentionally ) really difficult , since all operators work on a basis of giving you funny money and pricing everything in funny money . For example , paying $ 20 might get you $ 200 of " credit " , but phone calls then cost you $ 7/min ( actually $ 0.70 / min ) , and of course the ratio of real money to credit varies based on the operator and plan you pick . There are also " virtual operators " ( MVNO ) like <URL> and <URL> that license the big boys ' networks . They claim to be cheaper , and occasionally may be , but tend to have really shoddy customer support , puny data speed limits in the small print , etc. . The small savings are n't worth the potential for big hassle in my opinion , but YMMV . Source : Have used SIMs from all three companies , and seen my wife struggle with a MVNO I shall not deign to advertise . Currently on Telstra and happy with it .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
Have you canoed along the rivers there ? It provides a different aspect on the countryside . Have you visited any of the vineyards for tastings ? Have you explored the goat cheeses produced in the area ?
As far as I know Oyster card is only valid in London . They are trying to extend it to neighbouring towns ( I think at some point you will be able to use it on train services to get to some of the airports ) , but definitely it does n't work in Leeds . Note that if you have a contactless credit/debit card , you can use this one instead . There are daily caps on all travel in London which are the same as a daily ticket , and I think at least at the beginning there was a weekly cap . More details : <URL>
Just to clarify first , travelling on rooftops happens on small train routes - local trains that stop at each and every small station , typically not run using electric engines , slow routes et al. . For most long distance travel , this will not be the case . The stereotypical image of people hanging out of train coaches used as filler shots in montages in documentaries on India is usually that of the Mumbai Suburban Railway network ( and boy is that crazy ) . India is a massive country and airfares are nowhere near cheap as of yet for common people to travel with their family . Consequently , railways rather than planes or buses carry a majority of the inter-city traffic . Families plan trips months rather than weeks in advance and it 's a crapshoot getting a reservation simply because there 's so much demand to meet ! Trying to book your tickets in advance is therefore very much advised . Many trains have ' unreserved ' coaches which you can buy ( extremely cheap ! ) tickets for on the day of travel itself and get on-board . However , these usually packed full - and I mean full . Sitting / standing space only . Very uncomfortable if you 're travelling long distance or overnight , as some journeys take 1-2 ( or even three ! ) days to complete . Having said that , some of my most memorable train journeys have been when I 've just gone to the station and gone in unreserved coaches . Slightly costlier these are ' second sleeper ' ( two bunks per column ) , ' second sitting ' ( seats only ) , and ' three-tier sleeper ' ( three bunks in one column ) . These are reserved coaches and you technically , you need to have a reservation to get on - which means you need to book at least a week or a fortnight in advance . At least , the reality is you have to book even earlier sometimes . However , the implementation of how strictly rules are enforced really depends on what part of India you are in . Do n't be surprised if a party with reservation for three climbs on-board with six people and they all share the space - it 's part of how train travel works in India ! And man , the amount of luggage they bring on ( technically there are rules on how much luggage per person you can take on-board but this is never enforced ) . What I 've see is in southern and western India , rules are implemented fairly strictly , i.e. , you need to have a reservation to get on . In northern , central and eastern India , it is far more common to see people who have bought tickets but not gotten a reservation climb on board anyway and share seating space with strangers , or perhaps pay a bribe to the ticket checker to ignore the fact you do n't have a reservation . So even if you do have a reservation , you might end up having to share some space anyway . As a foreigner though you will find most people will go out of their way to be friendly with you , even give up whole bunks for you to sleep while they sit . Doing this for ' guests ' is an essential belief many Indians hold . In any non air-conditioned or ' standard ' coaches , you will be travelling with some of poorest in Indian society and you 'll definitely be the centre of curiosity . Expect people to talk and be inquisitive about you , and do n't be freaked out by it . How easy it is to get a reservation is also a factor of how much you have to pay . It 's easier to get reservations in air-conditioned coaches or express trains that take shorter times , simply because most people go for the cheapest trains . For you , the price difference will probably be inconsequential between second sleeper in the fastest train and second sleeper in the slowest mail train , so go for the express trains whenever you can . Also , <URL> . Seats on Indian trains are allocated according to quotas : there 's a separate quote for senior citizens , women , armed forces personnel , ' general ' travellers , railway employees ... too many categories if you ask me ! You can always buy general category tickets , but if you pay for the ' foreigner quota ' ones then basically you 're just competing with other travellers rather than ' everyone else ' . Prices are higher though . On that note , you might also want to look at <URL> . An increasing amount of seats on any given train these days are reserved for ' tatkal ' quota tickets ( it means ' instant ' in Hindi ) . Bookings for these tickets open one day before the day of travel and you pay <URL> but if you 're the sort of person who plans last minute , these tickets are your best shot . They still run out fast so rather than trying to go to the station a day before to book , get up early in the morning and book them online at <URL> ( the official railway ticket booking site ) or <URL> / <URL> ( two travel search sites that are authorised to sell tickets on behalf of IRCTC ) . You can show a printout of your ticket or even have them delivered as an SMS . You pay cheaper prices than the foreign quota tickets , and you get to make spontaneous plans . Win win !
Yes , there is a premium service provided by VFS called " Premium Service Lounge " . I have got an appointment on same date by this facility . It is really great service by VFS and everything will be done very easily . The Premium Lounge Service includes : Separate lounge with personalized service by dedicated staff Refreshments Faster submission of applications at the visa application center Courier return of passport SMS alert on the status of your application Photocopying and photo booth service for your documents Important note : Your visa application will be processed and decided by the French Consulate in Bangalore , Use of the Premium Service Lounge does not affect the processing time of your application .
There is no direct train from Warsaw to Riga or Tallinn . It is possible to do the journey by train , but it 's cumbersome . It takes two days and you would be traveling on local trains , mainly soviet-style <URL> . You have to travel from <URL> and then from <URL> , and finally from <URL> . Note that this route does not cross either Belarus or Russia . No visas are needed . The train network in the Baltic countries is sparse and hence train travel there is hardly practical . Prefer the bus . <URL> operates buses between the Baltic countries , and also between Vilnius and Warsaw . Within the countries there are good networks too . If you decide to take the train , note that the Eurail and Interrail passes are not valid in Lithuania , Latvia or Estonia . UPDATE ( 2013-11-11 ) At this time the trains between Warsaw and Vilnius are suspended due to construction works . Check <URL> to know the current situation .
If you are a tourist , the state of emergency may not affect your stay in France expect if matches or stages are cancelled for security reasons . On the other hand , if you are a hooligan , the state of emergy can become your worst nghtmare : avoid France ! You can find the law describing the consequences of the state of emergency of the website <URL> . The law " Loi n ° 55-385 du 3 avril 1955 relative à l'état d'urgence " extends the power of the Department of Homeland Security " Ministère de l'interieur " and chiefs of police " prefet " . In the end , the consequences of the state of emergency are in the hands of the french Departement of Homeland Security . Motiviations to take actions are security and order , and tourists are warmly welcomed in France , including football fans and cyclists . Yet , the state of emergency can be used against holligans or can affect the pleasure of sport fans as matches or stages of the Tour de France could be suppressed as a collateral damage of threats to security and fear of terrorism . Among the possible consequences of the state of emergency for foreign tourits attending sport events : Article 5 : restriction of circulation of people and vehicules in particular areas , restricted areas Article 8 : concert halls , bars and any meeting places ( including stadiums ) can be closed by the local chief of police or the head of Homeland Security . Any meeting which can affect security can be prohibited . Article 6 : If there are serious reasons to suspect that someone threaten security or order , this man can be assigned to residence by the head of Homeland Security . His passport and id card can be withdrawn , in which case a temporary paper is issued as id . For the moment , these prerogatives are mainly used to prevent terrorism , following the attacks of November . Example of use of the state of emergency which can be related to your question : <URL> Before the football match between Mulhouse and Grenoble , on 17/11/2015 , a fight bewteen football fans/hooligans started near the stadium of Mulhouse . Supporters of Grenoble were prohibited in the stadium by the chief of police and their seats remained empty ... See also the <URL> , which prevented supporters of Shakhtar Donetsk from attending a match in Ile-de-France 7/12/2015 , supporters of Rubin Kazan in Bordeaux on 9/12/2015 , supporters of Lazio de Rome in Saint-Etienne on 9/12/2015 ... This situation occured 94 times in France between 30/11/2015 and 14/12/2015 because policemen were occupied protecting us from terrorism . Later , on 16/01/2016 , the administative tribunal of Chalons-en-Champagne has validated the prohibition of fans from Rennes in the stadium of Troyes , even if the measure was motivated by the fact that policemen were occupied protecting shopping malls during a sales period <URL> . <URL> : some proactive ecologists were assigned to residence during COP21 . And the World March for Climate on 29/11/2015 was forbidden for fear of terrorism . On the other hand , there are actually demonstrations against the project of law on working conditions and the movement " Nuit Debout " still holds on the Republic Place . Tourist are really welcome in France and Frenchmen are commited to turn the sport events of this summer into safe and joyful celebrations .
end question
start question
What is a good price for a taxi from Pristina airport to Mitrovica north station ?
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
<URL> , the price starts to skyrocket 30 days before the departure date . Quoting it , [ Within 29 days ] the increase began to accelerate and once you were within 14 days the fares really shot up dramatically . Their graph :
They are unusual in the West , but there are some airlines that offer cheaper seats when booking for multiple people . In particular , Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific both offer " GV2 " and " GV4 " fares , available only to groups of 2 or 4 passengers respectively . For example , in <URL> , the single passenger price for a Singapore-Chennai/Kolkata return is S$ 700 , while the GV2 fare is $ 600 and the GV4 fare is only $ 500 . These show up automatically when booking online for the appropriate number of people , no travel agent needed . Of course , even in SQ 's case , these fares are not offered on all routes or all flights . When they 're not , you may still be better off following Alessandro 's suggestion and booking separately to get the best possible fare classes . And before you ask , despite living in Singapore for > 7 years , I was never able to figure out what " GV " stands for ! Probably " Great Value " or something equally naff .
Firstly I have n't been to Honduras for about five years and all this is off the top of my head : Honduras is cheap , since you mention USD I assume you are American so there are probably fairly cheap flights . Honduras is poor . They have beaches but they do n't take great care of them , at least on the mainland . I spent Easter at <URL> and found it very dirty compared to Mexico 's beaches . There is a backpacker scene . By far the main attractions are the scuba diving in <URL> followed by the Mayan ruins at <URL> . The diving courses were well known to be amongst the cheapest in the world . Many backpackers went there to get <URL> certification , or to progress to a higher level . I never went to the Bay Islands but some reports were that they were n't so great if you were n't diving . Perhaps the beaches there were also not great but many people mentioned <URL> being a problem . The Bay Islands were originally British rather than Spanish so surprise surprise - they speak English there ! I liked Copán very much even after having been to many Aztec and Mayan sites before in Mexico and Guatemala . The ruins are pretty but <URL> was absolutely my favourite place to just hang out in Honduras . It had hostels and a backpacker scene , it 's an attractive colonial town , and they seemed to be spending the tourist money wisely making it nicer . Usually I do n't like tourist trap towns but I loved this one . Honduras has one of the nicest capital cities in Central America , <URL> . Perhaps not utterly safe but safer than the neighbouring countries ' capitals plus it 's built in a hilly area which makes it more scenic . And there are backpacker hostels . But if you 're looking for a cultural experience my absolute number one recommendation for Honduras is to visit the <URL> villages . <URL> They have a unique culture and <URL> . Where else will you meet people that look African and speak a native American language ? They also have their own yummy alcoholic drink called <URL> . The villages welcome backpackers and the more difficult the village is the reach the more amazing your experience will be . All the villages are on the coast with amazingly beautiful beaches . From memory there is a string of them both to the east and west of <URL> and I seem to recall there are some near another coastal city in the country . But things change fast in the world so five years is a long time and I 'm sure some important things have changed . Do some research , and have a great trip !
Do n't book before you get there . The prices quoted by silent1mezzo are staggeringly expensive , compared to what you can get once you 're actually in Peru . Most 5day tours should run for less than $ 200USD . The first step is to get to Cusco . You can fly there ( landing there is pretty spectacular ) or you can get a cheap bus from pretty much anywhere else in the country . Some people have problems with the altitude in Cusco , so planning a couple of days for acclimatisation and exploring is a good idea . There are some short walks to ruins near the city that will help . There are probably hundreds of tour operators in Cusco ( <URL> that have an online presence , there are many more without one ) that run hiking tours to Machu Picchu . Ask around , or at your hotel/hostel for tour company recommendations as they 're likely to change . If you want to do the Inca Trail , it is recommended that you book well in advance ( months ) , as this is so popular . Because of the popularity it is also very well trafficked and apparently not very charming or enjoyable as a hike ( I did n't do it , so this is just hearsay ) . Basically , I would prepare for there to be whinging tourists to be all about you . There are many hiking alternatives to the Inca Trail which also end up at Machu Picchu . These can all be booked in and leave from Cusco at less than a week 's notice . Salkantay : 5days/4nights , goes high up into the mountains ( 4600m ) and past an unclimbed , snow-capped mountain called Salkantay . Some steep sections . Very spectacular . Choquequirao : A longer trek ( 9 days ) which includes cultural immersion as well as spectacular scenery . Involves 2 days of trekking back from Choquequirao on the same path , so there are some repeated views . Cordillera Huayhuash ( leaves from Huaraz ) : A comparatively quiet route offering solitude and scenery , takes one of two routes near the Cordillera Blanca mountains . Lares : 4days/3nights , Takes in the Quechuan lifestyle . Famous for the textile villages encountered along the way . Crosses two peaks and takes in some hot springs and lakes . Jungle Treks : Most of these involve a short walk , some downhill on-road mountain biking and a bus to Machu Picchu . Not highly recommended if you like hiking . DIY hike : Get to Aguas Calientes by train and continue up to Machu Picchu either by bus or by hiking the the five-mile trail . If you get there at dawn as it opens , your views wo n't be spoiled by the throngs of tourists that arrive later in the day . I should mention that most of these treks will be fully inclusive of include a tent and mat , food , and guide . Some provide a mule to carry your gear either all the way , or part-way with you . I found this against the spirit of hiking and chose to carry my own pack . Other tips : You can befriend your guides by offering to carry some of the food they are lugging for the group ( they will likely refuse , but the gesture is appreciated ) Ask questions of your guide - I found they were not very talkative about the history or scenery but when prompted had quite a bit of knowledge to share Always walk on the high side of mules so you do n't get bumped off a mountain It gets very cold at night at those altitudes , bring a good sleeping bag The sun can be very intense during the day at altitude , bring sunscreen .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
How does it work ? You go and stay in the queue for the taxi , usually just outside the terminal . When it 's your turn , you get inside the taxi and tell the driver your destination . And than you ride in ( sometimes smelly ) taxi for a while ( for a long while ) and eventually you get to your destination . How can I recognize it ? You wo n't miss it . There will be signs with directions , as well as the sign where the queue starts . Also , there is usually quite a lot of people queuing for the taxi . How can I recognize a legit taxi ? Although it never happened to me , some people may ask you if you need a taxi INSIDE the airport terminal . Avoid them , they are not legit . Head to the exit , search for a man or a woman with a little printer and dressed in uniform . ( credits to @Napolux for the information ) Once you are in official taxi queue you do n't really have to worry about taxi being legit , but you can still check taxi medallion . It will look similar to this and will be attached to the bonnet ( aka hood if you are American ) of the car . Additionally , there will be numbers inside of the taxi . <URL> You can check the number here : <URL> How much will it cost to take the taxi from JFK to Manhattan ? Is there a fixed fare ? There is a fixed fare , JKF to Manhattan is $ 52 + tolls + tips . Payable by card or cash .
When the tour guide / tour operator quotes you a price for a private package , it is more often than not a set offer . You can always ask if they can discount the price a bit , but most likely they would respond by simply changing up the package to use other components , lower grade hotel room , less game drive time , etc. . A reputable tour company has already established the value of its programs and is not really inclined to start discounting for the sake of getting just one more booking . A small , lesser known company would be more amenable to discounting to build up their customer base and word of mouth . This is part of the reason why you rarely see the big name tours offering trips on discount offer websites like ZOZI , LivingSocial , etc. . You can always ask , but do n't count anything huge ( a couple of percent off ) .
Sounds like you just want a list of more 21 + ( not child type of guides ) travel guides . I 'm 27 and I understand what you 're getting into . I 've been to Vegas a lot for conventions ( photography more specifically ) . Last time i was there was ' 09 . Vegas grows so fast . There are already new hotels sprouting when I was there , like Aria ( newest hotel / condo / loft / megaplex ) . 21 + Travel Guides There are also excellent guides from the travel channel on 21 + : <URL> <URL> - Great guide . Has list of crazy pool parties . Not sure if you 'll get that in October . <URL> has some great things that he did here as well . I would check out the rides at the Stratosphere ( x-scream ride ) . They 're really extreme . <URL> If you get bored and those do n't excite you , you may still want to do touristy things ; so when people ask you ca n't just say you ca n't remember it : Lodging The best places to stay are around the middle of the strip . If you 're in the middle then you 're not too far from everything . If you 're stuck on the north or south end you may do a lot of walking . That really sucks . Hotels include : Planet Hollywood - Perfect spot and value . It used to be known as the Aladdin . The rooms have been remodeled and redone to fit the planet hollywood theme . They always have deals on hotel rooms . Probably the cheapest ; I may be wrong . Bally 's / Paris Las Vegas - These two hotels are right next door to Planet Hollywood . They 're connected and owned by the same group . Rates are a bit more but this is the best spot of the new strip . Bally 's is the older of the hotels but their rates are a bit inflated . New York New York - This hotel is a little farther south . Not too much extra walking and closer to the south end of things . Prices may be similar to bally 's . Walking Attractions The best part of Las Vegas is the walking attractions . Walking around hotel to hotel can be very fun and a good way to walk off a hangover . Here are some hotels you must visit : NY , NY - Just walking through this hotel is great . They have lots of great sites that remind you of New York . It 's the only roller coaster hotel on the strip . Paris Las Vegas - worth a visit . They have a crepe shop and a restaurant on the top of the scale model Eiffel Tower where you can have brunch . Not sure if it 's appropriate for bro-mance times . It 's more of a romantic thing apparently . If you 're lucky you may also catch the mime that appears near the convention center ( toward the far back ) . Palms - It 's off the strip so I never went . But this is the home away from home of the Playboy Mansion . There 's lots of great things here I hear . Bellagio - Walk through the lobby . There 's a fun garden and chihuly glass in the lobby . There 's some fun attractions . The pool at the Bellagio is the most ridiculous sight . It 's worth checking out . If you walk toward the back you 'll be able to see the nice views . Make sure to watch the movie Oceans 11 . You can catch the fun spots where they filmed it . You can also find the best blackjack tables . There 's $ 5 minimum blackjack table that gets a lot of visits and i 've won a lot of decent hands there . Food I have only been to the buffets . It 's hard to find food around the strip that is n't a buffet . So here 's a couple you should visit . If it 's sit down in Vegas it 's going to be really hard to find a decent meal for under $ 10 per person . If you do the food quality is very poor . They take advantage of the tourists . Planet Hollywood 's buffet - Go on a Sunday . They serve brunch and it 's of the best besides the Bellagio Bellagio buffet - Go right at the cutoff between brunch and lunch and you 'll get a great deal . The price for the Bellagio buffet is steep . But by far the best buffet hands down . They have everything . Bars/Clubs that you must visit If you want more loungey bars New York New York may be the better place to be . <URL> - Apparently a hot spot at New York New York <URL> - one of the most extravagent night clubs . The line at midnight is ridiculous . You may want to get there really damn early . <URL> - Home of the most expensive drink Shopping Forum Shops at Caesar 's Palace - Caesar 's Palace offers lots of fun shops . There are several drink stands in Caesar 's Palace that offer you 151 in a 711 type slurpie cup . It 's a great value . Wynn - The Wynn has some high end shopping stores . Nothing super exciting though . Everything is way too expensive . Venetian - The Venetian has an entire mall . It 's several floors . Some of it is interesting . <URL> - Take a cab there . May cost quite a bit . But worth the adventure . You 'll save on lots of great things . Everything on the strip is too expensive . Shops at the Stratosphere - There 's a mall here you can walk through .
There are several kinds of travel-related insurance , sometimes sold as a package , sometimes separately : Travel health insurance : Covers healthcare costs if you have an accident or fall ill during a trip abroad . This type of insurance is mandatory to get a Schengen visa ( but if you reside in a Schengen country or are otherwise exempt from the visa requirement , that 's moot ) and it 's possibly the most important one , because something like an hospital stay can become very costly very quickly . Cancellation : Covers the costs of non-refundable tickets you already bought if you are forced to cancel a trip ( typically for a limited number of reasons out of your control , like a disease , the death of a close family member , losing your job , etc. ) Repatriation : Covers the cost for ( medicalized ) transportation back to your country of residence if you have an accident or contract a disease abroad . Luggage damage or theft : Covers some costs ( sometimes also with some assistance and/or emergency funds ) if your luggage is damaged or your ID , credit cards , etc. are stolen . Liability : Covers legal fees and damages you might have to pay if someone brings a lawsuit against you for something you have done during your trip . Interruption : You get a bit of cash if you are forced to interrupt a trip ( again for specific reasons like losing a family member ) and therefore lose the benefit of any arrangements you made and/or need to buy a new ticket on short notice . Life : Your family gets a lump sum if you die during the trip . Rental car : Covers the bits that are not covered by the basic rental insurance ( i.e. excess in case of accident , theft ) . Mountain/wilderness search and rescue assistance . Even a minor injury in a remote place can leave you with a bill in the thousands of euros for helicopter assistance ( you can also buy an insurance against this separately from ski resorts or alpine clubs , incidentally ) . The first one is probably less useful for you , if you are covered through the " European Health Insurance Card " ( EHIC ) system . Some details are a little complex but it would for example pay for hospitalization elsewhere in the EU . Depending on local rules , some costs might not be fully covered and an additional medical emergency/health insurance could make sense to cover the difference but it should at least avoid any catastrophic medical bill . If you do n't already have an EHIC , check with the local insurer/social security administration if you are eligible and carry it with you . Others ( like the liability insurance or insurance against theft ) are possibly already included in some other insurance contract you have ( e.g. in France , it 's common to have a generic liability insurance as part of a home insurance package ) or through a premium credit card ( e.g. repatriation or cancellation might be covered if you use the card to pay for the tickets ) . In all cases , it 's difficult to decide for you if it 's " necessary " . In some countries , liability or legal insurance is very common , in others not so much . As long as nothing happens , you do n't notice it but if you are faced with a huge liability , you are of course happy to have it . The whole point of insurance is that such events are not very common but can be very costly when they do happen . But for the smallest items mentioned above ( say luggage ) , you can also put some money aside and consider yourself self-insured . Insurers know more than you about the risks , want to make a profit and set prices accordingly . Since luggage does not cost so much and there is typically a rather low cap on claims , you can easily know what the " worse case scenario " is and decide that you have enough money to face these costs on your own .
It 's 5 km between the two stations and the best way to get from one to another would be to get a rickshaw ride . It would probably be around 50 to 80 rupees depending on your <URL> . If you do n't have too much luggage , you could opt for a bus , which is , I think 10 rupees . I imagine it is possible to take a train between these stations but according to my search , there are only 5 trains daily , two early morning , one mid-day , two in the evening . Perhaps there are more trains available that are n't listed on the Indian train info website . It 's also possible to take a taxi but the price is probably double the price of an autoricksaw ride .
Airlines tend to charge full fare for last minute bookings , rather than discounting it to try and fill one more seat . The stereotypical last minute booking is from a business person , who has to be there and is flying on someone else 's dime , hence does n't mind paying whatever is asked . So there is no real motivation to discount the fares . The number of people like yourself who might be looking for a cheap last minute escape are a very small minority . Usually about the only thing that gets discounted at the last minute is upgrades , as airlines may try to raise a bit of last minute cash if their first class is empty and there are n't that many eligible elite flyers on the flight . All that said , there is nothing wrong with giving it a shot , as there are exceptions to every rule of thumb . Just do n't get your hopes up .
Like in many other cities the normal taxi is a car for 5 people ( a driver and 4 passengers . ) It 's possible that some taxi drivers have n't a problem with transporting an extra passenger , when this is a young child . In your case I recommend to you order a special taxi ahead of time by phone . Here are a list of some taxi companies : CNTD - Central Nacional de Táxis Digital +351 21 844 6202 Autocoope - Cooperativa De Táxis De Lisboa , Crl . +351 21 793 2756 Retális - Rádio Táxis de Lisboa +351 21 811 9000 In my personal experience with taxi drivers in Lisbon ( and I 'm a Portuguese speaker ) it is quite common for the driver to take advantage of the passenger .
According to the <URL> of SNCF , you can ask a refund via post : To obtain a refund write to : Service relations clients SNCF 62973 Arras cedex 09 FRANCE It specifies that you need to send : the original tickets if you have received them your booking reference your full contact details ( full name , address and phone number ) Note that I have n't actually tried this .
Each of the 3 major global airline alliances have some form of " North American Air Pass " : <URL> <URL> <URL> These passes all have extensive conditions - generally they can only be purchased by a non-North American resident , and must be purchased in conjunction with an international airfare into North America . The specific conditions vary a little between the different alliances - the links above give the information on each .
I 'll answer as a father . I assume you are not stingy and you are willing to make your little boy happy . Also I assume you are talking about the US embassy , you have n't mentioned which embassy but it 's the one that comes to my mind when you said Grosvenor Square . Hamleys My children feel in heaven when I take them there . The shop is n't available everywhere in the UK like Toys R Us for example so there is a good chance that your kid never been there before . <URL> <URL> On your way back to Paddington stop by <URL> at 121b Edgware Road W2 2QZ and by him some amazing <URL> <URL>
What usually happens is that originally , there is a station named X ( which may or may not be named after the city where it is located ) . At some point it is decided that the area needs a new station , and that the new station shall just be named " Shin-X " , which should be understood as meaning " the new X " . Sometimes the reason why a new station is necessary is that a new Shinkansen line to the area is planned and it is determined that the existing station is not suitable to accomodate it . This is what happened in Shin-Osaka for example : the area around Osaka station did not have enough room for the necessary developments . There can be many other reasons why a new station is needed , however . In the case of Shin-Sapporo , it was to serve a new urban development ( which incidentally was also named Shin-Sapporo ) . An interesting one is Shin-Rifu ( in Rifu town , near Sendai ) which was established when the Tohoku Shinkansen started operating , not because the Shinkansen actually goes to this station , but to accomodate employees and visitors of the neighbouring Shinkansen rail yard . The Japanese wikipedia page of a station usually has a " History " section where some background information about its establishment is given . And sometimes Shin is just part of the " actual " name of the station , as with Shintoku station ( in Shintoku city , Hokkaido ) .
end question
start question
How can I find Turkish truck stops in Greece ?
Hitchhiking in Greece is rare nowadays , but not so uncommon in islands and mountains ( between small villages ) . As another commenter said , there 's a popular belief amongst Greeks that it is illegal , but as far as I know this is n't true ( but might had been true for a period in the past , hence the myth ) . Turkish truck drivers are mostly found in Northern Greece , as RoflcoptrException said , usually traveling in <URL> ( official website , map available ) , the highway that connects the customs of Kipoi ( Κήποι ) / Ipsala to Igoumenitsa ( Ηγουμενίτσα ) . It is easy to identify them from their different <URL> . Between Igoumenitsa and Alexandroupoli there are very few truckstops and gas stations , around 8-10 as far as I remember , and I would say half of them between Thessaloniki and Alexandroupoli . Most of them have been available during the years 2011-2013 ( Egnatia is a fairly new highway and most of the truckstops are not yet depicted in Google Earth 's imagery ) and some of them are not yet open to the public . I 've been to most of them , and I 'm pretty confident that none is owned or at least predominated by Turkish drivers . But that does n't mean that you might not find some Turkish trucks in any of those truckstops . It is probable that you will . I 'm not sure if this is useful , but a place where you will ALWAYS find Turkish trucks resting , is the area between Kipoi and Ipsala customs ( between the borders ) . Please note that you can not pass the borders as a hitchhiker , you will have to pass by walking , and then enter to the truck .
The cheapest solution I 've been able to find was the <URL> ( Italian only , sorry ) which is a nice camping not so far from downtown Mantova . It 's actually a 15 mins walking from almost every place in Mantova with an event associated to the festival . The camping is provided with plenty of space to plant your tent , a common area where you can have your meals and recharge your phone/laptop/whatever batteries and toilets and showers with hot water . The cost for one night is 5 $ , 15 $ if you plan to stay all the 5 days the festival last . Parking the car is free of charge .
I 'm far from being an expert in sailing , but being a native speaker helps when searching so this is what I came across : <URL> ( PDF , 24.4 MB ) CONTENTS Introduction Sail the Ionian Sea Sail around Peloponnese and Kythira Sail around Attica and Saronikos Gulf Sail through the Cyclades Sail through the Sporades Sail the North Aegean Sea Sail around the Dodecanese Sail around Crete Discover a variety of water sports activities Useful Information It 's not very detailed , but a good starting point I reckon . Enjoy your holiday !
Ask at your hotel or hostel . I work in a hostel and we have about four sets of scales so guests can make sure their luggage wo n't be over the weight limit for their flight . I 'm sure we 're not unique in this regard .
The tourist information offices in Ireland ( <URL> ) sell booklets with maps of campsites . I got one in the Dublin office for $ 5 . It lists loads of campsites , has some photographs of them , lists details ( opening days , phone numbers , directions , facilities , etc. ) . They also sell booklets of B&amp;B 's / Hotels . That has an overview map , but would n't count as a street atlas . As far as I know most road atlases ( which can be bought almost anywhere , in many bookshops and newsagents around the country ) will mark campsites , they wo n't have the level of detail ( like phone numbers so you can ring ahead and book or get directions ) that the one from the tourist information office will have , so I recommend supplimenting your street atlas with this campsite directory . Are you camping , or taking a caravan/mobile home . ( Caravaning in Ireland has other problems )
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
This might not include private bus operators , but is worth a try : <URL>
Try these in search engine in google : inurl : tripadvisor.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " inurl : booking.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " Add more keywords to place a specific country , etc. .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
G Adventures provide a lot of South American tours . They also monitor any safety updates in that region for their travellers . Here 's a timeline of updates and safety info within the last few months : <URL>
Checkpoint Charlie is probably worth seeing anyway but it 's very touristy and not quite a piece of the Berlin Wall : The checkpoint has been rebuilt and stands alone in the middle of the street . Incidentally , it became a symbol for several reasons but it was mostly notable as the only checkpoint for members of the allied forces . Other border crossings existed for Germans , including <URL> which was the first to open in the night of November 9 , 1989 ( East Germans -- who were actually hopping to cross the border and not merely going for symbolic value -- rushed to that one before the Brandenburger Tor or Checkpoint Charlie ) . <URL> is also still visible on the motorway ( not sure if it can be visited ) . There are actual pieces of the wall left in several places , including several watchtowers . <URL> is a famous one . It was a part of the " back wall " on the East German side , which means that it was n't accessible to the public ( the Spree river marked the border there ) . The paintings were made after the fall of the wall in 1990 . In walking distance from Checkpoint Charlie , the <URL> museum also includes an actual section of the wall . The <URL> is perhaps particularly interesting as it is intended as a reminder of what the wall was like , not merely a short piece of painted concrete but actually two walls separated by a no man 's land . There is a documentation center there as well . This would be the " official " institutional monument/museum devoted to the wall ( the museum at Checkpoint Charlie is a private exhibition and has occasionally been the center of controversies ) . Finally , in most of the city , the former border ( i.e. the " front wall " , except around Potsdamer Platz , where the stones actually follow the " back wall " ) is marked by a discrete row of stones on the street and there is a <URL> following it .
There are a few ways to visit Antarctica . Remember that nothing is ever guaranteed and it 's quite possible with weather that you might not make it there . Cruises : Larger cruises often will get you close but not to the land . You 'll have the comforts of cruising . These big ships may be regulated soon . Smaller ships will often let you get right onto land . Costs start at least $ 5k ( for the ultra cheap ) . Tailored Expeditions : Many companies run specialty expeditions which let you visit Antarctica exactly how you want . Prices are extremely high for this . Airborne : You get to fly over Antarctica . This is the more ecological way to see it but does n't have the same experience as actually walking on it . This is also the cheapest option .
I am back from my journey , which included Strætó bus 51 from Reykjavík-Mjódd to Höfn i Hornafirði , with a change of buses and drivers in Vík . On three occassions ( two between Reykjavík and Vík , and one between Vík and Höfn i Hornafirði ) , a passenger or group of passengers requested to get off the bus at an intersection or farm that did not have an official bus stop . In each of these cases , the bus driver did not make a fuss and stopped at the requested stop , where someone was waiting by car to pick up the passenger , suggesting this is quite normal . At each of those stops , the bus could stop safely without blocking traffic ( which was well below one car per minute in any case ) . It looks like the Strætó rule that <URL> is not enforced in practice in rural areas of Iceland , where scheduled bus stops may be 100 km apart .
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
The Health Assist Blog outlines ( quite comprehensively ) the fast food of various countries globally . Part 1 illustrates fast food that can be obtained in the following european countries : Denmark The Netherlands Austria Belgium Finland Poland Sweden Germany United Kingdom <URL> Part II illustrates Asian &amp; Australian fast foods : Australia China India Indonesia Japan Korea <URL> Part III illustrates South , Central American &amp; Mexican fast foods : Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Bolivia Costa Rica Panama Peru Venezuela Mexico <URL> Edit If you are in London ( UK ) this weekend 28th - 29th September 2013 you will be able to taste a variant of fast food because a festival of european street food , with food stalls from all over Europe will be hitting East London 's Dalston Yard . So you can go around sampling different european tasties , and ask the people of those countries selling them how typical or perhaps non typical they are of the that particular country ! If you want to sample some the finest that Europe has to offer , more information on this event can be seen : <URL> .
I ended up being tweeted an answer - from a TEFL teacher in Thailand : <URL>
I tried translating the site with Bing Translate , but because it 's Flash it wo n't translate . However I did the menu words one at a time , and Vietas means Site - locations , I think . That page just has a number of words with a number after each . If you click on a word , you get a phone number and what are obviously opening hours . The next step would be to determine whether those words are streetnames within a single city ( my guess , with the number then being a street number since one is 76a ) , or city names . Recognize any ?
end question
start question
Are carry-on bags being weighed on long-haul flights ?
Most major airlines are fairly lax regarding the weight of carry-on bags - even when they do officially publish a limit . Unfortunately for you , AirNZ is an exception . Both Air NZ themselves , as well as the major airports in New Zealand , do frequently check carry-on bags and if they are over 7Kg you will be forced to check them . If your bag looks light then you 'll probably get away with it regardless of weight , but if it even remotely looks like it might be more than 7Kg then there 's a very good chance that it 's going to get weighed and rejected ...
At least in Germany , I do n't think security is an issue . Although it actually is uncommon to find waste bins in means of transport for shorter distances , you will find waste bins in most , if not all , regional and long distance trains or inter-city buses . I would rather assume that it is simply so tedious and/or time consuming to empty the waste bins , that none are installed . Intra-city means of transport are often quite crowded and it would be practically impossible for someone to walk through e.g. a packed subway wagon during normal operation to empty the bins . If the driver was supposed to empty the bins at the end of a line , this would take some time and cause both more personnel as well as more vehicles to be required .
A lot of what you need you can just get in the grocery store - rice , pasta , dried potatoes ( either mashed or slices for " au gratin ) , sausage like pepperoni and salami that specifically does n't need refrigeration , dried fruit and nuts , instant hot cereal ( oatmeal , cream of wheat etc ) , dried legumes ( especially lentils which do n't need soaking ) jam , honey , and peanut butter will take care of a lot of your needs . You 'll want to put things into different packaging so they can survive in your pack and so that you 're taking the right amount for the length of the trip . My favourite camping breakfast is instant oatmeal . Add extra raisins , brown sugar , or other dried fruits if you like . Boil water in the morning and you have coffee and oatmeal and you are set for a pretty physical day . ( Bring a whisperweight stove that uses butane or liquid fuel - fires are far too slow for morning purposes . ) Beef jerky ( made at home if you have a dehydrator , or bought in the store if you do n't ) along with dried fruit and nuts will meet any snack needs through the day . If you must have lunch , you can use bagels or English muffins ( on week + trips I <URL> english muffins , your trip is short so just bring a few packages ) with cheese ( the " light " cheeses keep better , and buy several small ones so they stay sealed longer than one big one ) , sausage ( the no-refrigeration needed ones ) , peanut butter , jam , or honey . If one of your days features a big climb to a gorgeous lookout and you know you 'll want a rest , packages of soup mix from the grocery store can make a 30 minute stop into a delightful lunch . Again the whisperlight stove and some locally-sourced water . Dinner the first night can be meat you took from your freezer that morning , wrapped in plastic and several layers of newspaper . I 've done it and when we unrwap it , it 's not just cold , it still has ice crystals in the middle . Fry it , and cook some fresh veg with it as you would at home . The second night try <URL> using that no-refrigeration pepperoni , some cheese , and maybe some onions and any other veg you 've brought . The third night , something vegetarian built around lentils and rice - we love kusherie - or beans in a sauce , like meatless spicy chili with dumplings . You can also dry hamburger meat ( cooked ) in your oven at home and use that as the meat in spaghetti sauce or shepherds pie filling . Set the hot pan of cooked sauce aside with a towel around it while you cook the starch - it will stay plenty warm and you only need the one little stove . These need you to bring canned or dried veg , I choose dried for the weight and rehydrate them right in the sauce or stew . Bottom line is this is way easier than you think . Have a great time !
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
There is no universal rule on stamping visas , entry or exit stamps in passports other than , they are not supposed to be stamped on Amendment / Endorsements pages in the back of passport ( but if there is no other space ... ) In the good old days , passport pages were divided into quarters and countries used two quarters , left for the entry , right for the exit stamps . I think it was more just customary rather than mandatory . Today immigration stamps come in a myriad of sizes and shapes , and many immigration officers ca n't be bothered to make the stamping look neat . Most will try to put the entry and exit stamps on the same or facing pages . I have pages with 6 to 8 stamps on them . Some countries do have rules that your passport needs to have XX completely blank pages and you will not be granted entry ( nor be allowed to board the plane to those countries ) without the blank pages . Others will simply stamp in any blank spot big enough for their stamp .
Probably yes , but ... I put in my visa application today . I ticked the box for multiple-entry 12 month visa . I had a printout for a flight into Guangzhou and out again just under two months later . I also had a printout for one week of accommodation in Guangzhou . In fact I was told I must have these things the first time I went to the Chinese visa office because at that time I only had a printout for the flight in , not for a return flight , and not for accommodation . On my second visit a couple of hours later they told me that these documents are actually only sufficient to apply for a single - or double-entry visa , and not for a multiple entry visa ! It 's very hard to get detailed information on what you must supply to get what kind of visa for China . Hard to get out of the embassy and consulate websites , hard to learn from the people working at the consulates and visa offices , hard to find on the Internet , hard to find out by asking travel agents , and even hard to garner from the crowd of travel experts at travel.stackexchange.com ! To get such a visa you will need to document more of your itinerary by showing proof of flights and accommodations . But I still do not know the details of how many flights and how many accommodation bookings . Maybe you need to provide a full itinerary with everything booked in advance before you even know if your visa will be approved . But maybe you just need to book three flights and two accommodations . For some reason the people working in Chinese consulate visa sections and Chinese visa offices seem to prefer to play their cards close their chests and provide only the bare minimum of information each time you bring in your application forms . Now perhaps travel agencies that book entire tour packages would know all the details and fill out the visa application forms for you . I really do not know what the best approach could be for an independent traveller who wants as much flexibility to travel around China , leaving and re-entering . Update : When I picked up my visa I chatted with the lady in the visa office about how I had wanted a one-year multiple entry visa and she told me that it requies the applicant to show at least three booked flights and accommodations . I did not think to ask her if that meant three return flights or whether three flights either in or out of China would suffice .
You can expect to be able to bring up to 1 liter onto a plane , in vessels of up to 100ml , carried in a transparent bag . Expect to lose any container over 100ml .
It depends on which trains you 're using , as they differ from service to service . A <URL> covers much of this . I 'll try and summarise : Sun and Ski Thalys - only guide dogs Thalys - small and guide dogs = free in a basket . Bigger dogs = buy a ticket . TGV - yes , but must buy a ticket and be in a box or muzzled and on a leash . Eurostar - only guide dogs . ICE - yes , with exceptions , tickets to be purchased . Domestic Netherlands trains - yes , <URL> apply : A small pet that fits into a bag or basket or can be kept on your lap may free on the train . For leashed pets you must purchase a Day Pass dog . Regardless of your destination this ticket costs $ 3 . Note that each rail carrier uses other terms and rules . If you have an OV-year subscription , you may take one dog free .
If the liquid is red , it 's mostly likely alcohol ( ethanol ) , not mercury ( so less of an issue - even if it broke it would be no worse than spilling a few drops of wine ) . Even small mercury thermometers are <URL> , as Johnny says : By the TSA and some other authorities ( but Cathay Pacific , for example , does not allow them ) . So I think it should be okay , but you never know - you might lose it if some overzealous agent deems it a danger .
From an airport security standpoint I think the helmet should cause no problems in your carry-on . The TSA prohibited item search tool does not mention bicycle helmets . <URL> including motorcycle helmets , which are considerably tougher than bicycle helmets and can be used as an offensive weapon . Interestingly enough , TSA says that motorbike helmets are allowed in carry-on luggage : <URL> The same is also true for other , arguably more potentially dangerous and heavy , helmets including football helmet , welding helmet , lacrosse helmet , etc. . Therefore it is safe to assume that bicycle helmets are allowed too . Now , in terms of carry-on luggage allowance , I think you will be fine . For starters , the combined volume of your small backpack with the helmet attached will most probably be comprised within your maximum allowance . Moreover , I have flown with items strapped to my carry-on backpack multiple times and was never questioned . If worse comes to worse , either jam the helmet inside the backpack , wear it , hang it from your trousers and call it a keychain , or do something so that it does not appear to be part of your carry-on .
As a tall person with an ideal weight , you should n't worry about the width of the seat . What you should worry about is the pitch of the seat , which will give you a better idea of the leg room . If you wonder <URL> : Seat Pitch is the distance from any point on one seat to the exact same point on the seat in front or behind it . While it is not the exact equivalent of " legroom " , it does give a very good approximation of how much seat room you should expect . Bottom line : the more seat pitch the better . China airline 's 777 in economy has a seat pitch of a 32 " , which is pretty standard in many regular airlines around the world ( ± 1 " ) . Is it comfortable ? not really for a guy your height , but almost all other airlines have similar seat sizes and your best option is to get a seat in the emergency exit row where leg room is much better . Other option would be upgrading yourself to premium economy or business .
The issue is not not reached a point yet where there is a proposed legislation . The problem with liquid screening is highlighted in the Commission 's latest <URL> , published about a year ago : At the end of November 2014 , the Commission received the results of an additional study assessing a possible second phase for lifting of the liquid restrictions . This study was carried out by the consultant ICF International . It assessed the possibility of permitting passengers to carry bottled water through a series of airport trials and also checked the findings of the previous study , in relation to the operational impact of the first phase . Also , this study concluded that the first phase had no negative operational impact on EU airports , even during the summer peak of operations at the EU airports involved in this study . It however also concluded that there may be a significant impact on throughput and cost for EU airports should the restrictions be further lifted to permit passengers to also carry bottled water . This is mainly due to the expected high number of bottles that would need to be screened and which would require significantly more liquids screening equipment . The outcome of this study led the Commission , in concertation with Member States , stakeholders and its international partners , to postpone the introduction of the second phase of lifting the liquid restrictions . That being said , the issue is still being worked on . Trials are conducted at various airports to test the process . These are usually not publicly announced , with the exception of <URL> where trials were conducted in the last two months : Through this project Malta International Airport is contributing towards enhancing the passenger experience for travellers within the EU . The key participant airports for this project are Amsterdam Schiphol Airport , Budapest International Airport , Alicante International Airport , Dublin International Airport , and Malta International Airport . The airport team has already conducted some initial trials , to establish the ideal testing environment . With the technology and equipment now available for LAGs to be screened , MIA 's security team will be determining best practices for this new screening procedure whilst maintaining the requirements of the current EU legislation . The results from the participant airports will be analysed by the European Commission , with a view to implement new guidelines on LAGs . When this exercise is taking place , passengers who may , in special circumstances , be carrying LAGs of more than 100ml will be subjected to further screening . O&amp;I Consulting , the company which conducts these trials for the European Commission , currently carries out an <URL> on that issue .
Different airports use different techniques , choosing from among : background checks for employees requiring cargo and airside staff to pass through security checkpoints ( like the ones for passengers ) as they enter the airport ( 100 % of staff in Europe , random checks in North America ) never leaving anyone alone with an aircraft or in the cargo bay having different people load things onto the little trucks and empty the little trucks onto the plane not telling employees much about which plane is which , where they are going , and which flights they will be loading having supervisors look things over before the door closes limiting the size of bags ( lunches etc ) staff can bring in , and keeping those bags separate from the rooms with tarmac access security cameras that are monitored so things like loading a big bag into a vehicle will be noticed cockpit crew , cabin crew , security crew and ground crew all perform " security checks and searches " prior to takeoff ( may vary by airline ; customs may also search for contraband , which could reveal other badness . ) And probably much more that has n't been mentioned in the news . And as corroboration , an explosion that can be traced back to an inside job is practically unheard of . Luggage bombs worked for a while , but cargo handler bombs appear not to be a thing . Relax as much as you can , and enjoy your flight .
You must arrive within 6 hours . The ticket expires 6 hours after validation and if your ticket is checked on the train more than 6 hours from validation , you will be subject to a fine . You may get on and get off multiple times and use the same ticket . The validity of the Cinque Terre train ticket is specifically designed to allow you to visit multiple or all towns on the one ticket . <URL> Tickets are good for 5 , 10 and 20 kilometers , you have to validate them at the yellow machines in the station before you start your journey . They are valid for 6 hours . 10 km tickets are all you need for the 5 villages . Tickets will be checked on the train ! The trains run till about 11:30 pm And a single ticket exists which allows you to visit all of the Cinque Terre . <URL> An alternative for those who decide not to walk and want only to move by train would be to buy a round trip ticket Sestri Levante - Riomaggiore at a cost of $ 4.00 per person each way ( always with the regional trains ) , this ticket has a validity of 6 hours from the validation time and you can stop about 1 hour in every village . This solution is certainly the most economically advantageous but it seems that the Park intends to force all visitors to the <URL> , in this case we will inform you in time !
There are some <URL> ( common but <URL> ) that the lower air pressure ( and humidity ) in a plane 's cabin increases the risk of thrombosis . Another factor is that buses usually have toilet breaks every couple of hours , which gives everyone an opportunity to stretch their legs - and people are more likely to make use of these opportunities than to do it regularly in a plane because there is more room and they 're reminded and encouraged by the bus stopping and lots of others getting off .
The US Department of Transport has a <URL> for airlines subject to DOT rules . The limit of one carry-on bag and one personal bag ( e.g. , purse or briefcase ) for each traveler does not apply to medical supplies and/or assistive devices ( including service animals and their equipment ) . Passengers with disabilities generally may carry medical equipment , medications , and assistive devices on board the aircraft . A survey of a random selection of other airlines , shows similar results , although in most cases the airline needs to be notified in advance and have the device approved . <URL> Travelling with medicines or medical equipment If you need to use your CPAP machine on board you can take it with you as an additional item to your hand baggage allowance . However if you do n't need to use it on board , it counts towards your hand baggage allowance . Alternatively , you can check it in at no additional charge . Just contact PMCU to authorise this as an additional ' checked baggage ' item . <URL> Traveling with mobility and medical devices A 48-hour notice is required to approve electronic medical devices for use during a flight All approved medical devices must be battery operated ( battery type will also need to be approved for use inflight ) If you 're bringing an assistive device as a carry-on , it will not count toward carry-on limits <URL> The following items of medical equipment may be carried free of charge as a additional item of baggage ( max . weight 23kg ) , provided that the passenger registers them in writing well in advance of departure with the Service Center ( by post , email , fax , or , for passengers in possession of a severe disability pass , by phone ) under the contact details given in section 3.1 , and in individual cases a medical certificate confirming that the equipment is necessary is produced prior to departure : - ventilators , asthma equipment , inhalers - catheters - materials for dressings ( special conditions apply to plaster casts -- as per section 6.4.3 ) - walking aids ( crutches , walking frames ) - sanitary products ( nappies ) , stoma - shower/WC-seat , transfer board for wheelchair users - prostheses - dialysis machines , defibrillators , lymphatic drainage devices , electrotherapy devices - suction equipment , irrigators - medicines and injections - disabled person 's bicycle , therapeutic bicycle , wheelchair bicycle <URL> You are allowed to take your CPAP ( Continuous Positive Air Pressure device ) device on board subject to providing evidence on the nature of the equipment . This device can be carried as an additional item . If you are travelling with such device , please contact our Call Centre at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled departure of the flight . <URL> In addition to the hand baggage the following items are also allowed : crutches or other medical equipment provided the passenger has to depend on them ; <URL> Exceptions may be made for medical equipment required during flight . If it exceeds the carry-on allowance , please advise your Travel Agent at time of booking <URL> Customers wishing to bring medical equipment as an additional item of cabin baggage should contact the Ryanair Special Assistance Line to receive a cabin baggage waiver letter for presentation at the Boarding Gate . In general it would appear to be prudent to notify your airline in advance , but I would expect the necessary use of a medical device in-flight would not count towards hand luggage limits .
There seems to be no limit as such . However if you carry more than 10 ' 000 $ , you <URL> depending on the country . For example in <URL> , you are to declare it when orally asked to do so . For the <URL> on the other hand , there seems to be no need to do so . So if you consider taking more than 10 ' 000 $ , you should check the rules for the specific country you are flying to .
The airlines all make it clear that they do not guarantee space on board for all items that are eligible carry-on luggage , as pointed out in another answer . I would presume that you can not claim a higher loss allowance for a bag just because it is forced to be checked during boarding . I would n't rely on an agent 's word at the gate , either . The best way to protect yourself is to plan to remove the valuable items and carry them on ( often times there is enough space for individual items even if there is not enough space for a standard carry-on suitcase ) . There are certain types of smaller aircraft that do not accommodate standard carry-on suitcases . Check your itinerary to ensure you are n't flying on one of those planes . They include Canadair Regional Jets , many Embraer regional jets and all prop style planes like the Dash-8 or ATR . Larger bags on these planes are always checked at boarding and returned to you upon arrival at the gate . If you can not remove the items and carry them on safely , then you should be prepared to make the case with an airline agent to be moved to another flight . I do n't know how successful you will be , and you may have to wait out many full flights before it happens , but that may be your best best to avoid checking a larger but valuable item . Edit : I will mention something from a helpful comment by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo : you might be able to purchase a second seat to accommodate a very valuable item like a musical instrument . Contact your airline to discuss this option .
No . The only way to get from one terminal to another is to exit the terminal and take the air train or a shuttle bus . A possible exception to this is for Delta , which operates in Terminals 2 and 4 . They apparently have a bus that connects the airside areas of these terminals . See the map here : <URL> Indications are that this bus will disappear at some point , presumably when construction of a direct link between the two areas has been completed .
It would depend on the security officer that checks you in and the country where your flight originates . <URL> especially cast iron ones it 's check only as evidenced in a <URL> . TSA also has a mobile app now that you can look at . But since it 's a flight originating from another country TSA rules may not apply so originating country 's rules will have to be followed . Based on additional information There is nothing specific regarding skillets for <URL> so they may allow skillet through but I would still put it into a checked bag or just ship it home .
end question
start question
Visa : " Current occupation " while doing notice ?
I went to the Chinese consulate and they asked me how I was able to go for 90 days as a tourist . I 've explained that I 've quit my job and am still doing notice for 2 more weeks . She told me to choose ' unemployed ' instead of 'em ployed ' and that I also have to provide : The related C4 document ; A statement of my leave written &amp; signed by my company ; A bank statement as proof I have enough money ( 50 euro X 90 days ) ; A day-by-day itinerary ( containing : proof of transport and hotels , attraction per day , ... ) . I suppose the C4 document is only needed because I 'll stay longer than the default 30 days for a tourism visa . ( The same for the day-by-day itinerary , because last year for less than 30 days , it sufficed to only enter the names of the cities . ) And I suppose the bank statement is needed because I fill in ' unemployed ' .
If you were gone for a little less than three months , rather than three months or more , it qualifies as a " short gap " in coverage and so you 're exempt from the requirement to have insurance . From the <URL> What are the statutory exemptions from the requirement to obtain minimum essential coverage ? ... Short coverage gap . You went without coverage for less than three consecutive months during the year . For more information , see question 22 . Otherwise , I suspect that you 're out of luck . There 's an exemption from having coverage if you 're gone for an entire year ; from the <URL> U.S. citizens living abroad are generally subject to the same individual shared responsibility provision as U.S. citizens living in the United States . Starting in 2014 , the individual shared responsibility provision calls for each individual to have minimum essential coverage ( MEC ) for each month , qualify for an exemption , or make a payment when filing his or her federal income tax return . However , U.S. citizens or residents living abroad for at least 330 days within a 12 month period are treated as having MEC during those 12 months and thus will not owe a shared responsibility payment for any of those 12 months . Also , U.S. citizens who qualify as a bona fide resident of a foreign country for an entire taxable year are treated as having MEC for that year . It may still be cheaper to pay the tax penalty for the three months in question than it would be to buy insurance that 's valid in the US , though . You might want to look in to how much the penalty would actually be for you . The penalty for full-year non-coverage is <URL> this would be pro-rated for the parts of the year in which you do n't have coverage , so your penalty would be about a quarter of this amount . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer or a tax professional of any kind , so my reading could be entirely off-base . There may be other exemptions that I 'm not aware of .
The <URL> site refers visa applications to the <URL> . According to this site , they have locations in London , Manchester , Stockholm , Gothenburg , Copenhagen , The Hague , Brussels , Paris , Marseilles , Milan , Rome and Madrid . The terms of their online application state that applicants must be a citizen or resident of the country where the application is made . ordinary passport holders who are UK citizens and citizens of other countries possessing UK permanent residence or work permits However , you may be able to make an application in person at one of these locations or at a Chinese embassy or consulate in Europe . As <URL> have reported success doing this . At the consulate in Goteborg , Sweden all we had tp produce were our passports , the completed application form with the passport sized pics and the money for the visa . In fact it all went very smoothly .
I may be headed that way myself as part of a relief mission for the <URL> . I would recommend the <URL> ... <URL> It is not an ' official ' source and the feed is intermixed with comments that some may find indecorous ( hence my redaction ) . But there is enough ' live ' information to make it worthwhile . The feed includes ' live ' updates from the BBC and other credible sources . You may also find that the <URL> contains very specific information about what to expect on a moment-by-moment basis ... <URL>
There is <URL> related to various topics like Ataturk , Islam , etc. . Apparently there have been additional censorship and limiting of access to social networks as Twitter and Facebook but people have gotten around that too according <URL> and <URL> .
Primanti brothers is an excellent and iconic sandwich place in Pittsburgh . <URL> has a list of notable mentions this enterprise has received . There are multiple locations in the city . <URL> is the second tallest university building in the world and houses 29 <URL> which are a must visit . The <URL> is an incline plan railroad first started in 1887 , scaling Mt.Washington and having a brilliant view of the Pittsburgh downtown and the confluence of the Allegheny , Ohio and the Monogahela rivers . If you are the type , there are a bunch of museums including The Carnegie Museum of Natural History , the Hienz History Center detailing the sports legacies of the Steelers and The Andy Warhol Museum ( Andy Warhol was a native of Pittsburgh and a leading figure in the pop art movement ) . Also , if you are interested in bridges , Pittsburgh has the world record for most bridges , I beleive 446 of them , beating Venice which was historically considered the City of Bridges . P.S. . This does not strictly come under the city of Pittsburgh , but an hour 's drive from the city is Frank Lloyd Wright 's famous <URL> .
I 've been planning on doing it , and reading quite a few forums , the Facebook group , and speaking to locals who have done it . The one thing they all agree on is DO NOT walk back down the Grind . They specifically urge other runners to tell off people walking down , as they get in the way , damage the track as they slip , and on top of that it 's brutal on your knees and can easily slip and injure yourself . I spoke with my roommate and she mentioned the <URL> and the <URL> , but her understanding is those are also ' technically ' one-way ( up ) and you may also upset people if you go down that , apart from risking your body . It sounds like the Skyride back down is pretty scenic and recommended . If you were staying longer you could get the annual pass ( $ 99 ) but for a once-off , Skyride sounds like the way to go . [ edit ] Having now done it , I can confirm that some people will turn back at the 1/4 marker , as it 's wider and easier and gets steeper after that . But almost nobody is seen going down after that . And I can confirm people were telling off the one or two runners who were going back down the trail . It would certainly damage the trail .
A couple of options : Park at an outer Underground station . I used to park at Newbury Park station to the east of London . It 's just off the A12 and is on the Central Line . It 's a bit of a long trip on the tube , but only cost about # 5 to park for a full day . Depending on where you 're coming from , where you 're going to in London and where you 're going afterwards , there may be a more appropriate stations . Street parking . My parent live in London , and there 's quite a bit of parking near them ( Rotherhithe , in this case ) . It depends on the borough , the time of day etc. , but it might be viable . You can potentially get within walking distance of the center , and certainly near a tube station . If you 're leaving London on a weekend , this also has the bonus of being close enough to drive through the center of London ( since the congestion charge does n't apply on weekend ) , which is quite an experience . Good luck , whatever you decide !
Each person ( including children ) needs to file a separate application . Based upon your text , the recommended strategy is ... Your wife applies first and records her GWF number . She schedules her biometrics enrolment on a day that appears totally open . You apply second and put your wife 's GWF number in the remarks section of the application and explain that you are travelling together . If you can not schedule biometrics at the same time , make two different appointments but show up together and ask if they can accommodate you . No guarantees , but sometimes it works .
For one thing , you should choose a reputable hotel/hostel with employees you can trust . Then just leave your valuables in the room ( or a locker in a hostel dorm ) . I stayed in cheap ( but good ) places ( USD 8-11 / night ) and had no problems in Costa Rica or Panama . To find out which places are " reputable " , I 'd rely on online resources ( reviews on <URL> for hostels , and e.g. . <URL> for hotels and guesthouses ) , as well as recommendations from people I meet while travelling in the region . Of course , if you have bad luck , you might still have your stuff stolen even in a place with a good reputation . In general , however , I think this is the best approach and the one causing you least stress . On the beach , you 'll probably have at least something valuable on you , such as hotel keys etc. . I tend to do these things when on the beach alone : Wrap all your stuff ( bags , clothes , etc ) inside a towel when leaving them , making a big bundle , so that random passers-by can not immediately see what you have , and it 's easier to notice if someone tampers with your possessions . ( A Cuban friend taught me this is what they do on the beach . Simple but quite useful . ) Choose a place near " honest looking " people . Even better , ask them kindly if they could keep an eye on your stuff while you 're swimming .
Arguably , no . What if you do n't have an address ? What if you 've just moved back ? <URL> and assume you 're staying somewhere - and as a result , hotel addresses are acceptable . So if you wanted to legally dodge it without any possible problems , book a night at a hostel , and use that hostel 's address on the form . As for refusing , I 've seen people try , and it does n't work . The border guys want an address . However , it 's just process - I 've seen one backpacker literally turn and ask anyone behind in the queue if they know the address of a hotel , and someone named the one from Pretty Woman on Rodeo Drive . So he wrote that in , and handed it to the border guard , who shrugged , stamped , and completed the process .
Contrary to the popular opinion The City is not that big . So let 's lay out a few rules that will help your search : If you are going to stay in Manhattan there are very few places that have more then a 4 block walk to a subway that will take you almost anywhere you want to go , so drop a pin and there you will stay ( just do n't stay in the parks police does n't particularly like that :) ) . Areas of Brooklyn and Queens as well as some places in the Bronx also offer great views and ease of access to the city , such as Williamsburg , Brooklyn Heights have great views of east and south sides of Manhattan as well as access to the Subway so 15-20 minutes will get you to practically every place of interest in Manhattan . Consider looking in Hoboken or downtown Jersey City . These can be slightly on the expensive side but have access to PATH which runs 24 hours and buses that get you in and out of Manhattan really quickly ( having lived in Jersey City time to commute to Times Square was less then for some Brooklynites ) . Sights . Considering what you have listed I would assume you wanted to see Grand Central Terminal rather then Penn Station because the original Penn Station is gone . Hotels . Hotels could get expensive in New York City and around Christmas and New Years you might have to pay arm , leg , and a few other body parts for a room . If you are looking to stay a week you might look at <URL> to see if you can rent an apartment . One thing though is there are a few Supermarkets around so if you decide to cook locate those first . But in all enjoy the city .
The must-see places in Belgium are the big cities , like <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Okay , you could also add <URL> to that list . But do n't go to Bruges without going to Ghent . The latter has a real life with real persons , not only tourists . And it has a nice <URL> . If you want more specific advice , here are 10 interesting things do to and places to visit . If you come to Belgium via Roosendaal , and you want to continue to Luxembourg , all these places are more or less along the road . A canal cruise in Ghent is interesting and gives you a nice perspective of the city . The <URL> are part of the UNESCO world heritage . Why not visiting the one in <URL> ? In <URL> , climb up the tower of <URL> and see the carillon at work . If you go to the capital of the European Union , visit the <URL> . Belgium has an important colonial history . A visit to the <URL> is very instructive . It is located in Tervuren , on the outskirts of Brussels . While in Brussels , sample Belgian beer at <URL> or <URL> . Belgium is not only about chocolate and beer . When driving from Brussels to Luxembourg , visit the <URL> in <URL> ( + - 30 kilometers from Brussels ) . The <URL> is not far from Brussels . If you like caves , stop in <URL> , on your way to Luxembourg . It 's not a big detour . The <URL> , home of one of the world 's best beers is located in the southeast of the country , not too far from Luxembourg .
Do you need to be religious active to walk to Santiago or do any other traditional pilgrimage ? Most people I have heard of who have completed a large part of the Santiago route by walking or cycling were not religiously active ; and even those who were practicing Roman Catholics ( RC ) have never made another pilgrimage . So you will not be an exception , although the closer you get to Santiago the more likely you will meet more people doing the pilgrimage for religious reasons . What do pilgrims do while walking ? One of the things pilgrims do ( if they do a pilgrimage right ) is to contemplate . Not just religious things but also things happening in life . How you are in your relation with your relatives and friends . How you do or could help others in whatever way . The list is much longer , I guess you get the feel of it now . Can you do something like that when you are not religiously active ? If you want to give your pilgrimage a theme that is like them , you can do something like that yourself . It is something you can do while walking . You do not need to set time aside for this . Just read one of the points in the morning or when you have started walking , think of a good point to contemplate that day , and you can spend as much or little time on it as walking , company and your mood allows . Another traditional thing for pilgrimages is the rosary , but as non practicing RC ( you say ' unequivocally atheist ' ) , you will likely not be happy spending much time on it . In your case I might read about it . I was a practicing RC at the time and found the rosary boring and uninspiring . If you are into meditation or even yoga , you might like to think about a kind of active meditation or a simple yoga routine that will get you in the same kind of mood . This is not something for new people to meditation or yoga , it might be a good substitude in your mind . And that is the only place where it matters . Do I need to do something to replace religious activities ? For all I know , many people happily walk the whole distance without any thought deeper than the next meal or the next mountain to climb . Things to do and to avoid ? If you meet people who are religious , respect it and them . If you pass churches , you might want to go in and spend a few minutes , dress for it , ( shorts till below the knee and shoulders covered , or a wrap to cover what needs to be covered . ) I am sure you know how to behave in a church as a tourist , if you happen to be in one during a service , do not take communion , if you happen to walk forward with all others or if the group is small and the priest just comes to you , hold your hands in a closed position and your mouth closed . If the priests insists , just shake slightly . Most local priests will understand , they will have seen more ' non RC ' people in their services but you might meet a priest out of a very religious area who is doing the pilgrimage himself . Do donate a little if you can spend the money on it . So many churches , should I visit all ? Do not feel obliged to visit every church on your route , you will never make it to Santiago if you do . And if one church for the whole route is enough for you , it is .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
Fortunately , I never faced a situation where the company owned laptop was stolen , while I was traveling overseas with it , I was given a Letter of Authorization ( LOA ) certifying that the laptop , I am carrying with me , is a company owned property , for business use , by the Immigration department of my company . The primary usage of this LOA mentioned to me , by the immigration department folks , was for producing a documentary evidence to the Custom officials , if asked for by them . The LOA , I carried looked similar to the one posted <URL> . IMO , the same letter could have been used to assert that the stolen laptop in your case , was a company owned device , and not a personal device . Though , I do not know of any such provision/restriction in law , which prohibits from filing a theft complaint either in USA ( based on the answers on this question to my immigration department , when I was traveling to USA ) or in India ( I live in India ) .
According to <URL> you can buy it at various certification agencies ( TÜV , DEKRA ) and theoretically any auto repair shop that 's certified for doing emission tests ( though apparently many do n't offer this service ) . You need to show them the vehicle license and registration papers , from which they determine whether your car can get such a badge , and which one . Here 's <URL> in English from a TÜV website , and here are lists of branch offices where you should definitely be able to get the badge : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It depends a lot on where you 're flying . Also Aeroflot was a different airline pre 1991 , when it got broken up into all the subsidiary ex-Soviet state airlines . So I 'd concentrate on after that , as it also affected maintenance standards and the like . As far as timeliness of flights goes , it depends on your flight - but <URL> . Overall 76 % are on time . 7 % are ' excessively late ' . You also have to realise how BIG Aeroflot used to be before the breakup in 1991 . Sure it had about 3 crashes every year , but it was also huge . A <URL> is quite an informative and interesting read . Finally , a blog post " <URL> " . Worth a look if you 're considering flying with them .
From US Department of State ( <URL> ) : " In Singapore , you may be taken in for questioning if you do n't have your passport with you . " There is also a section titles " Surrendering your Passport " that addresses surrendering your passport to police officers , hotels , or employers as a guarantee . It is common for domestic helpers to surrender their passports in Singapore . If you are required to have you passport on you at all times it is usually explicitly stated . The US DoS page for Malaysia states , " You should carry your U.S. passport and current social visit pass ( visa ) with you at all times ... " The US DoS page for Thailand states : " We strongly recommend that U.S. citizens carry proper travel documentation at all times . Thai police occasionally stop travelers in popular tourist areas to check their passports . Please carry at a minimum a copy of your U.S. passport identification page and current Thai visa to avoid detention by the Thai immigration police . "
This is a great question which probably applies to everyone . The obvious thing is to start with a minimal set of keys . Only take those you absolutely need to get back in . Although they are not needed everyday , I do keep with me almost at all times . The reasoning is that they are required to get home , just like a passport , only the latter must be used first . If the keys were stolen or lost , it would be more than troublesome to get back in . In places with a hotel safe , you can keep them in there with your passport instead but I find the best is to keep habits . If you always carry a keychain at time , then you can easily keep doing so abroad .
end question
start question
Under EU rules , can I receive compensation if my flight was delayed by more than 3 hours but I did n't board it ?
Article 5 or EU regulation 261/2004 reads ( my emphasis ) : In case of cancellation of a flight , the passengers concerned shall : ( a ) be offered assistance by the operating air carrier in accordance with Article 8 ; and ( b ) be offered assistance by the operating air carrier in accordance with Article 9 ( 1 ) ( a ) and 9 ( 2 ) , as well as , in event of re-routing when the reasonably expected time of departure of the new flight is at least the day after the departure as it was planned for the cancelled flight , the assistance specified in Article 9 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 9 ( 1 ) ( c ) ; and ( c ) have the right to compensation by the operating air carrier in accordance with Article 7 , unless : [ ... ] Article 8 is the bit of the regulation that , among other things , entitles you to a refund within 7 days if your flight was cancelled and you choose not to ask the airline for a rerouting . Article 5 clearly implies that you should get that and the compensation ( at least if the conditions to deny compensation do not apply and in particular if the cancellation is not due to " extraordinary circumstances " beyond the control of the airline , which includes strikes and air traffic control decisions ) . Where things get a bit hairy is that the notion you should get compensation for a three-hour delay is nowhere to be found in the regulation . Originally , it only covered cancelled flights , which would make your question moot . The reason why the EU website says otherwise is that this has been extended to flights delayed for more than three hours by case law ( and in particular case C‑402 / 07 and C‑432 / 07 ) . The decision itself is as follows : Articles 2 ( l ) , 5 and 6 of Regulation ( EC ) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights , and repealing Regulation ( EEC ) No 295/91 , must be interpreted as meaning that a flight which is delayed , irrespective of the duration of the delay , even if it is long , can not be regarded as cancelled where the flight is operated in accordance with the air carrier 's original planning . Articles 5 , 6 and 7 of Regulation No 261/2004 must be interpreted as meaning that passengers whose flights are delayed may be treated , for the purposes of the application of the right to compensation , as passengers whose flights are cancelled and they may thus rely on the right to compensation laid down in Article 7 of the regulation where they suffer , on account of a flight delay , a loss of time equal to or in excess of three hours , that is , where they reach their final destination three hours or more after the arrival time originally scheduled by the air carrier . Such a delay does not , however , entitle passengers to compensation if the air carrier can prove that the long delay was caused by extraordinary circumstances which could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken , namely circumstances beyond the actual control of the air carrier . Article 5 ( 3 ) of Regulation No 261/2004 must be interpreted as meaning that a technical problem in an aircraft which leads to the cancellation or delay of a flight is not covered by the concept of ' extraordinary circumstances ' within the meaning of that provision , unless that problem stems from events which , by their nature or origin , are not inherent in the normal exercise of the activity of the air carrier concerned and are beyond its actual control . I am not sure you should trust my interpretation of it all and there have been a handful of other decisions on this but the text seems to suggest that you can not avail yourself of article 5 but only of article 7 ( " for the purposes of the application of the right to compensation " ) . The plaintiffs in the original case all completed their journey with the airline ( i.e. were re-routed rather than reimbursed ) . In any case , because this is n't explicitly provided for in the regulation , it would seem that you would be on somewhat shaky grounds to demand compensation .
I was on a train with a Canadian who experienced this . We left Irkutsk , Russia heading towards Ulan Bator , Mongolia on the ... let 's say Tuesday , the last day of his visa . Seemed ok , but we did n't actually cross the border until early on the Wednesday . The result - he was a few hours over his visa . The security and passport people came on the train , took our passports , and announced - " there is problem " . He was whisked off the train , and we debated dividing up his stuff - there 'd been no indication what was going to happen . A couple of hours later ( we were at the border for ages ) he returned . He 'd been fined for overstaying , and apparently there 's a base fine , and an additional fine per day over . Plus a mark in his passport for overstaying , if I recall correctly . You wo n't get stuck in Russia . But you will get in trouble . Get an earlier bus , or if you can , adjust your visa . Either way , do n't overstay .
I recommend you to add one day to your application - there is no problem to stay one day less than you were going to , but you can get real problems if flight will be delayed - if you would n't pass through the customs in time , you can be marked into black list .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
Article 5 or EU regulation 261/2004 reads ( my emphasis ) : In case of cancellation of a flight , the passengers concerned shall : ( a ) be offered assistance by the operating air carrier in accordance with Article 8 ; and ( b ) be offered assistance by the operating air carrier in accordance with Article 9 ( 1 ) ( a ) and 9 ( 2 ) , as well as , in event of re-routing when the reasonably expected time of departure of the new flight is at least the day after the departure as it was planned for the cancelled flight , the assistance specified in Article 9 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 9 ( 1 ) ( c ) ; and ( c ) have the right to compensation by the operating air carrier in accordance with Article 7 , unless : [ ... ] Article 8 is the bit of the regulation that , among other things , entitles you to a refund within 7 days if your flight was cancelled and you choose not to ask the airline for a rerouting . Article 5 clearly implies that you should get that and the compensation ( at least if the conditions to deny compensation do not apply and in particular if the cancellation is not due to " extraordinary circumstances " beyond the control of the airline , which includes strikes and air traffic control decisions ) . Where things get a bit hairy is that the notion you should get compensation for a three-hour delay is nowhere to be found in the regulation . Originally , it only covered cancelled flights , which would make your question moot . The reason why the EU website says otherwise is that this has been extended to flights delayed for more than three hours by case law ( and in particular case C‑402 / 07 and C‑432 / 07 ) . The decision itself is as follows : Articles 2 ( l ) , 5 and 6 of Regulation ( EC ) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights , and repealing Regulation ( EEC ) No 295/91 , must be interpreted as meaning that a flight which is delayed , irrespective of the duration of the delay , even if it is long , can not be regarded as cancelled where the flight is operated in accordance with the air carrier 's original planning . Articles 5 , 6 and 7 of Regulation No 261/2004 must be interpreted as meaning that passengers whose flights are delayed may be treated , for the purposes of the application of the right to compensation , as passengers whose flights are cancelled and they may thus rely on the right to compensation laid down in Article 7 of the regulation where they suffer , on account of a flight delay , a loss of time equal to or in excess of three hours , that is , where they reach their final destination three hours or more after the arrival time originally scheduled by the air carrier . Such a delay does not , however , entitle passengers to compensation if the air carrier can prove that the long delay was caused by extraordinary circumstances which could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken , namely circumstances beyond the actual control of the air carrier . Article 5 ( 3 ) of Regulation No 261/2004 must be interpreted as meaning that a technical problem in an aircraft which leads to the cancellation or delay of a flight is not covered by the concept of ' extraordinary circumstances ' within the meaning of that provision , unless that problem stems from events which , by their nature or origin , are not inherent in the normal exercise of the activity of the air carrier concerned and are beyond its actual control . I am not sure you should trust my interpretation of it all and there have been a handful of other decisions on this but the text seems to suggest that you can not avail yourself of article 5 but only of article 7 ( " for the purposes of the application of the right to compensation " ) . The plaintiffs in the original case all completed their journey with the airline ( i.e. were re-routed rather than reimbursed ) . In any case , because this is n't explicitly provided for in the regulation , it would seem that you would be on somewhat shaky grounds to demand compensation .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
You may leave without an American passport . The United States does not have a government exit procedure , so at airport check-in , you would be showing whichever passport would be more convenient for your country of destination . If you were returning to the UK , for example , your UK passport would be better ( although since US citizens do not need advance visa for UK , not that much better ) . Supposing you were a dual USA-Ruritania citizen and Ruritania requires advance visas for Americans , the advantage of the Ruritanian passport would be obvious . You must , however , use your replacement USA passport when you next come into the United States .
Simple : you will need to contact your home country 's embassy/consulate in the country you are staying at , and they will issue you a travel document to be used to pass to your country . The country in which you are staying can not issue you a passport ( unless you are a refugee or stateless or something like that ) , when the passport is lost , the maximum the host country can do is issuing some sort of a report via a police station stating that you have lose your passport . The rest has to be done via the consulate/embassy . For the visa , you will need to issue a new one . Unless the visa is not attached to the passport and it is in a separate card or so . You also most likely will have to re-issue it from your country as most consulates will issue you a single use travel document ( in case you needed to get back quickly ) , this can not be used to issue visas . In case your consulate issued you a full passport , not much countries will issue you a visa while you are in the country , you will need to get back . Unless it is a long term visa , things tend to be different in these cases .
I never found the stereotypical rude Parisian I was warned about . Several people went far out of their way to help me in ways I would n't expect in my own city . I did not find a great number of people outside the tourism industry in Paris that spoke English . I did always use the French words and phrases I knew " excusez moi " , " salut " , " merci " , and if I could struggle by with those I would n't even ask " parlez vous anglaise " I got the impression people appreciated that . Using single words goes far , French or English , if you ca n't form a sentence . If you manage to form a broken sentence people will often help out by correcting your mistakes ! More people know more English vocabulary that you know French vocabulary but may not be able to make or parse English sentences . Be patient . Smile a lot . Never act rude or arrogant . Do n't talk loud when people do n't understand . When you get to your hotel or tourist information people will be able to speak English .
Some airlines will match , others wo n't , so it 's tough to answer in the abstract As a general rule though , you 're more likely to get matching from a North American airline , and quite unlikely to get it from a European one except during one-off promotions . Also matching inside of an alliance is usually tough to get , between alliances is easier . For some examples , BA , Emirates , Lufthansa and Singapore are known for not offering status matching , where as Delta and Continental do . Things do change over time , but at the moment your best bet is to look through the <URL> , look up your new " local " airlines and see .
Considering the airline in question is British Airways , you should be able to change any other flights if they are in the same booking . If you are booked to travel on a flight that is cancelled , you can either : Rebook onto another British Airways flight at a later date at no extra charge and subject to availability OR Cancel your booking and claim a refund to the original form of payment If your booking also includes any other BA flights that are not cancelled you will be able to change these flights at the same time . Source : <URL> The question remains if you get the same class while rescheduling because if you do n't then you will have to pay DOF ( Difference of Fare ) charges . This is an airline specific question , such conditions are subject to airline policy and they are the best place to contact for information . If your flight was n't BA then this wo n't be applicable .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
In another document , <URL> , it says , emphasis mine : In de artikelen Douanebepalingen Nederland en Douanebepalingen Nederland , bijzondere goederen staat precies beschreven wat u Nederland mee in mag nemen zonder aangifte te hoeven doen . Or in English , The articles " Customs regulations Netherlands " and " Customs regulations Netherlands , special goods " describe exactly what you are allowed to take with you into the Netherlands without having to declare . The second of those documents has another description of those rules about fruit . So a few fruits for personal use are allowed , and you do n't have to declare them . They 're treated exactly like everything else that you 're allowed to just bring with you .
For the most part , the 3.4 oz rule is n't strictly enforced , in the sense that they do n't normally physically check ever single container you have to make sure that it 's less than 3.4 oz . If it 's significantly larger than 3.4 oz they will normally be able to see that on the X-ray , and will physically inspect it . As an example , I travel with a can of spray deodorant that is around 4oz , but is only labeled with " 100g " , where other cans of the same product are labeled as " 4oz ( 100g ) " . To date , having gone through airport security probably over 100 times ( incl 5 times in the past 3 days ) I 've had them manually inspect it exactly twice . So if what you 're traveling with is close to 3.4 oz , you 're probably fine . However , if they decide to look at it , and it 's over 3.4 oz , then you 'll almost certainly lose it . It 's up to you whether it 's worth the risk/cost of losing whatever it is you 're trying to take through . If it 's a 4oz tube of toothpaste it 's a different answer than if it 's a 5oz bottle of $ 200 perfume !
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
Absolutely ! And not only you can , it is one of the best ways to explore the City ! My favourite place to start the journey is from Hyde Park - right by the Serpentine Lake is a nice place to eat a sandwich and start skating , while you see some people dancing on rollers and quads . There are also some places to rent inlines in case you ca n't take yours with you near Hyde Park ( <URL> and <URL> come to my mind ) . They usually provide skate pads as well . You may want to attend the <URL> ( London Friday Night Skate ) weekly meetings - on Fridays and Sundays - , which are very well organised and safe , as they always have marshals holding the traffic while the rest of the people just enjoy the ride . It is run by volunteers , and the people is just great . I ca n't recommend these rides enough . If you want to go solo , you can either go by road or on the sidewalks ( but please be careful if you do so ) . The police officers will not disturb you unless they find that you are annoying the rest of the pedestrians . By the way , keep looking the road ahead of you , as London roads are far from perfect and there may be holes in the ground or even rubber cables crossing the road side to side . Some other must-skate places in London are Greenwich park , Kensington and Chelsea boroughs and Oxford St. / Regent St. ( these one on Sunday mornings , as they are a bit too crowded otherwise ) .
The safest approach to arrive in any city is to arrange for your hotel to pick up you , meaning there will be a guy with a sign with your name on it waiting for you right outside Customs . Just give them a ring and ask about " airport transfer " or " airport shuttle service " . The obvious downside is that this is usually expensive , often 2-4x the cost of a taxi .
The delay is partially accurate there is data that is fed to the app delayed . But the tracking of the flight is still real time . <URL> specifies 3 sources of data of which one : FAA is 5 minutes delayed , which means that most flights by major airlines will still be tracked accurately , similar information is indicated by <URL> and so on . Now as far as gates are concerned the information is more accurate at the airport then on the flight tracker as the gates can change if the flight lands late . Now if you are trying to estimate the time of arrival of a given flight down to the minute using flight tracker I would highly recommend not doing this since weather conditions , airport conditions and other issues can affect this information and I would give myself some fudge factor when time is concerned . Now as far as airports are concerned I would recommend taking the information with the grain of salt . <URL> informtion system for example uses <URL> for tracking information and the estimation of arrivals will be given to you based on the information from the same application , so it will be just as accurate as if you looked it up on that app directly .
This situation is hard to answer , as the trains has much more stable schedule rather than planes , so there are no such situations I can find about Russian railways . This could be two ways - the border officers would have a previous date stamps or not . If the train would be delayed and dates switched , your friend still has a trouble . But , again , this situation is no so probable as the trains in Moldova have n't been delayed recently . However , in 2014 there was an accident on this train ( <URL> ) and it has been delayed for a 6 hours . After that , before the accident results were fixed , trains were delayed up to 4 hours ( <URL> ) on this route . So , if your friend feels unlucky , she can use other options , but I think this is safe for she to use this train , as in case of emergency it will be easier to explain the visa date expiration .
end question
start question
What historic sights can I see in Oslo on a 4 hour train layover ?
<URL> is easily reachable by foot from the train station - just follow Karl Johans gate ( " gate " is Norwegian for " street " , not an actual gate ) . <URL> is a nice place to watch the harbour . <URL> is also nearby if you 're interested . <URL> from 1290 and the <URL> should fit the " ancient architecture " ticket <URL> nicely .
The capsules from Soyuz - Apollo flight used to be and Apollo 11 command module is at the <URL> . A quick search also gives a list of all remaining <URL> based on that there is only one in Europe in London .
It does depend what ticket you have , and who you 're with . If you are delayed on another RailTeam service , the <URL> feature means that you may not even need to rebook ( depends on the station ) , but if you do it 'll be easy . ( Keep the ticket from the delayed service though ! ) If you bought a domestic ticket that included <URL> , eg <URL> or <URL> , when you get to the Eurostar station you need to queue up at the ticket office , show them the ticket for the delayed service , and they 'll re-issue you with a new ticket for the next available Eurostar . If the delay means you missed the last train of the night , they 'll have to sort you out with accommodation too . If you do n't have a domestic ticket with CIV protections , then <URL> as soon as things go wrong , so they can put a note on your account that you may miss your Eurostar due to delays . Next , try to find someone from the train company who has delayed you to write on your ticket / give you a bit of paper confirming the delay . This bit is n't required , but it does seem to help ! Finally , when you get to the Eurostar terminal , queue up at the ticket desk , explain about the delay , show them the ticket for the delayed train , tell them you 've already spoken to customer services , and ask nicely . ( Whether or not you are already covered by CIV at this point is something that has n't been tested in court , so no-one 's quite sure , ditto for onward connections after ) . Generally , if you 'd left enough time had the delay not happened , Eurostar will re-book you onto the next available service . If you 're delayed getting to the Eurostar station by something other than a train , YMMV , so it 's probably best to leave more time for that . If you 're getting a long distance Eurostar ( eg a once-a-week train to the south of France ) , get there early as even if they can get you there another way , it 'll take longer and not be as good ! If you can buy a domestic ticket with <URL> , that 's the best as you know you 'll be fine . Otherwise , Eurostar are generally very friendly and helpful , and when I 've been delayed on a train getting to St Pancras they 've always helped me out :)
Thalys is an all reserved train service , and your ticket is only valid for the train booked . If you want to spend some time in Antwerpen just buy a Thalys ticket from Paris to Antwerpen , and buy another ticket for Antwerpen to Amsterdam . Between Antwerpen and Amsterdam you have the choice between two services . Thalys ( which again you need to reserve , and commit to a train ) . Intercity . This is a non reserved , turn up and go service . Buy tickets at the station for this .
Next to travel.se I am also a big fan of <URL> . The userinterface might not be up to current standards , but they seem quite complete in their listings . as expected they do list the <URL> Tickets seems to be available through <URL> , or purchase tickets to events <URL>
In all probability , you should be able to board the flight . I use the expression because this is not a matter of rules , but depends on various factors that can not be predetermined , such as the punctuality of the flight that lands you into Frankfurt , the rush on the two flights , and the number of people doing the transition from this to that . I had a similar experience once while flying Lufthansa from Bangalore to San Francisco . I had a little more time than you -- 90 minutes instead of 55 , but guess what , my Bangalore-Frankfurt flight was late by around an hour . 30 minutes would have been impossible to make the connect but the airlines staff knew that , and they boarded all passengers of the incoming flight that had to connect to the next flight to San Francisco in a separate coach , took them to a special window where they got their passports stamped , and then back onto the coach and the plane for the connecting flight . I think the connecting flight was even delayed by a few minutes as 30 minutes would not have been sufficient to transfer 50 + passengers . It was smooth for passengers , though a little tiring of flying 20 straight hours . One of my two check in bags did n't make it though . I got only one bag in SFO , and the other came to my hotel the next evening .
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
During that time of year , the connection Hamburg -- Copenhagen is very busy . Before they introduced compulsory reservation in the summer months , I had a train that was so full , I had to almost physically fight my way to my resered seat , and <URL> almost happened . ( They did leave in the end -- with a delay -- but still very packed . ) Thus , you should reserve a seat at the earliest possible moment ( i.e. once you have decided on a connection ) . This is easiest via <URL> , which has an option in the buy tickets dialogue to only buy a reservation . It is very likely all the seats will sell out at one point ( especially for the trains that are not the first or last on a given date ) but I ca n't predict when that will be . The next time when I travelled on it ( summer 2014 ) , DB security service appeared on the platform in Hamburg before the train entered . Once the train came to a stop , each door was guarded by one or two of these security officials , whose job it was to make sure nobody boarded the train without a valid reservation . Thus , I very much assume that the answer is no -- they wo n't even let you board without a reservation . ( That year , the travel was much more comfortable -- you could actually walk through the corridors . ) You could attempt to circumvent this by taking a regional train to Lübeck and boarding the ICE to Copenhagen there . I ca n't remember whether DB security service was on that station , too . ( Since the next stops -- Oldenburg ( Holst ) and Puttgarden -- are very inconvenient to get to , that is even less an option . ) Note that once you crossed over into Denmark , a second unit is typically added to the train ( in Nykøbing Falster , iirc ) . Since many people prefer to stay on their reserved seats and not move their luggage ( in spite of many announcements by the train crew that an almost empty unit has been added ) , you should find lots of free space from then onwards . The Danish leg has no compulsory reservation , since space is no longer a concern . ( Danish single tickets come with free reservation afaik , though . ) Note that this answer is written concerning the ICE trains Hamburg -- Copenhagen . The situation will be different on other trains with compulsory reservation such as night trains ( CNL and EN until December , only EN after that ) or other high-speed trains ( e.g. Thalys ) .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
In Germany , the Zoos of <URL> and <URL> have Dolphin exhibits/shows ( another one in [ Münster ] will be shut down this fall ) . The one in Nürnberg is probably closest to you and also seems to be the largest . But note that there 's considerable controversity about whether keeping Dolphins in indoor pools constitutes animal abuse , given that even the largest pools are tiny in comparison with their natural movement habits .
I 've used the <URL> in KUL before . You can book with them directly , but if you search around online there are various websites that sell access , and you 'd probably be looking at about $ 30/person . In terms of the lounge , it was ok but nothing stunning . There are showers available ( they 'll lend you a towel ) , but they were n't in great condition ( think slightly run-down hotel rather than a high-end airport lounge ) , though it 's enough to let you get clean and refreshed ! There was some food available , but not a great choice , and some drinks . Free fast wifi though , newspapers and magazines , and fairly nice chairs . For me it was worth the discounted price I 'd paid , but not the full price . If you have any fancy credit cards it 's worth checking with the issuer in advance , as some will include access to the lounge ( the people in front of me in the queue had free access with their platinum card for example ) I do n't believe there are any other pay-for lounges there - the rest tend to be airline ones reserved for their frequent travellers and business/first passengers . That said , KUL is a very nice airport to just wait around in . On the upper level they have 4 areas where you can sit to watch TV , they have free wifi , they have a small tropical garden in the centre of the airport , and everyone 's really nice . Depending on the flight times , you might find you only want a lounge ( for a shower and some food ) in one direction , and in the other just relaxing in the airport itself will be fine . 4-5 hours is possibly too tight to make it into the city and back ( I 've not tried it though ! ) , hopefully someone else can comment on that !
Wifi is available on the majority of ICE trains ( > 90 % ) , but it is not guaranteed to work ( so you wo n't get a rebate in case it does not work ) . Also , Wifi is only available on certain tracks , as seen on this map : <URL> Whether you get Internet on your trip also depends on the route that you are taking . A short search at bahn.de reveals that most likely you will take the ICE between Dusseldorf and Berlin ( which has Wifi/Internet coverage ) and take the Eurocity between Poznan and Berlin ( which does not have Internet ) . If you are riding first class , Wifi/Internet is free of charge . In second class , there is a fee , which can be paid by credit card . In terms of reliabity , it is not bad . However , the connection will frequently be interrupted for short periods of times , which making performing Voice-over-IP calls difficult .
Get a Window Seat When I reserve a seat on train ( or a plane , for that matter ) , knowing that I would like to sleep during the journey , I often book a window seat . That way I can lean my head on the window , rather than having it hanging in the void , causing me to wake up every ten minutes as soon as the neck ache kicks in . Moreover I place a jumper/t-shirt/soft-layer between my head and the window . This layer acts as a pillow and temperature insulator . As the comments below suggest , the windows seat is also strategically placed so that you will not be woken up when your neighbour needs to go to the bathroom . However , you can always climb on top of the seat , or find another acrobatic way out , in case you are the one who needs to go to the bathroom . From my point of view it is better to be the one climbing over rather than to be climbed over . Pack for Sleeping If you want to sleep , bring sleeping gear . Since you are travelling by train , you do n't have to abide by weight rules for your carry-on . So you can pack as much gear as you like . For me , necessary ca n't - sleep-without-it gear includes : Sleeping mask Ear plugs Travel pillow Some form of cover : blanket , jacket , sleeping bag Anticipate Pickpockets As others have mentioned in the comments : sleeping on a long-haul night train makes you a target for pickpockets/thieves , especially if you do n't have the extra safety of being inside a private/locked compartment . To be fair there is not much you can do to make yourself , and your stuff , completely 100 % thieve-proof . More so if you are sleeping in an unlocked , unsupervised space . What you can do however is make sound assumptions on thieve behaviour and plan ahead . Your objective should be to make your stuff less appealing for thieves because it requires more effort on their part to take it . <URL> and <URL> are some general pickpocket-prenvention tips . <URL> Below is a summary of what I think are the most relevant points for the purpose of sleeping in a train : Keep your money/documents/phone / valuables on you , either in your pockets or in dedicated supports ( for example money belts ) . Clothes and other less-valuable items can go in your rucksack/suitcase . If you have a small backpack/laptop bag , strap/clip/tie it to some fixed support . This can be either your leg , the seat itself , the table between seats , etc. . The point is that anchoring the bag to a fixed support makes it harder to be snatched away . Similarly , you can also strap/clip/tie your rucksack/suitcase to , for example , the luggage rack . Once again this makes it harder to snatch . Lock the zippers on all your bags with padlocks/zip-ties/key-ring / paper-clips . This will obviously make the bag harder to get into . Make sure that the topmost item in your backpack/rucksack/suitcase is something that a thief would have no interest in taking . My personal favourite are dirty underwear and socks , kept in a plastic bag with its opening towards the opening of the backpack . This way its content is the fist thing a potential thief would see , when accessing the bag . I always laugh when picturing what their face would look like . Final Remarks Having said this , note that I somewhat agree with <URL> : If you 're determined to avoid paying for a couchette , [ and fail to find anything else but a standard ( non-foldout ) seat ] book a couchette -- what you 'll spend is less than what you 'd waste by arriving at your next destination too fatigued to enjoy it . This is especially true in case of long-haul train journeys such as the one you mention . Moreover , couchette compartments can be locked from the inside adding an extra level of safety for you and your belongings .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
Assuming you arrive in the domestic terminal and leave from the international one , I would first go over there and try to check in early , just to get that out of the way . It is always risky to leave the airport and get into suburban traffic when you have to catch another flight , especially an international one . Your time is limited and I would n't spend too much of it in downtown . However even getting there is interesting enough . I would suggest just taking the <URL> from O'Hare to Clark/Lake ( 1h ) , then go up and change into the <URL> , this is an elevated train ' The L' that goes around the loop , so you have some views over downtown Chicago . Get off at Washington/Wells and walk back to Clark/Lake ( 5 blocks ) to get back on the Blue line to O'Hare ( 1h ) . With only 2.5 hours to spend , this is a very tight schedule . Photo credit : <URL> To make things worse , the Blue line leaves from near terminal 2 , to get there to/from terminal 5 takes at least 15 minutes each . I would only try this , if you had checked in already , so that when getting back to the airport you would only need to go through security and to the gate , meaning you do n't have to be back at 11:30 but maybe at 12:00 or even 12:30 . It would be easier if you could check in through to Tokyo in Boston and do n't have to worry about luggage and checkin in O'Hare . You could also not go downtown , but just look around one of the West Side neighborhoods for a short while . Just take the Blue line to Belmont or Logan Square , spend some time there and then go back . There is nothing too special there , but you can get a feel for Chicago outside of the loop .
Each person has their own taste , so this questions is almost subjective . However , after living there for four years , I now know there are certain things that EVERY tourist seems to want to do or see . St Paul 's . It 's one of the greatest cathedrals in Europe , and I 've heard people say it 's their European highlight , the pinnacle of sights that they 've seen . On a Sunday you can get in free , although you wo n't have access to everywhere inside . Westminster Abbey and a photograph of Big Ben . When you come out of Westminster tube station , it 's tourists EVERYWHERE . But I suggest coming out at Waterloo station and walking across the bridge to Big Ben - you 'll get a better photograph . Westminster Abbey is just behind it , and like St Paul 's , some of it is free to access on Sunday 's . Note that only residents can go up Big Ben , and even they have to apply to their local Member of Parliament months in advance for a tour . Tower of London . My favourite tourist attraction . I spent the better part of a day here , and could easily go back for more . Get there early to beat the crowds . Right next to it is Tower Bridge - which most people think is called London Bridge . London Bridge is actually flat and boring ;) The London Eye . Giant ferris wheel next to Waterloo station , the queues are insane on weekends . This is a polarising attraction - people either think it 's a waste of money , or a must-see . I 've been twice - during day and night , and loved it . The museums . British Museum , Imperial War Museum , Natural History Museum and Science Museum are the big famous ones , but there are smaller ones too if you search around . The best part is that most of them ( including all the big ones I 've just mentioned ) are free ! The London Underground . It sounds odd , but it 's such a fundamental part of London , that you need to make sure you ride it a few times on different lines . Perhaps in from Heathrow , or to the museums , as it 's nice to walk around above ground in central London , and it 's surprising how close together everything is . Picadilly Circus and Oxford Circus . Walk through , take photo , move on . They 're famous , historic , but they only take a few minutes ;) Buckingham Palace . You ca n't always go inside , and most people claim the changing of the guard is over-rated , but there 's still something about seeing it ! The parks . Make sure to check out at least St James Park , and Hyde Park . London Zoo and Camden Market . They 're close by . Come out of Camden tube station nice and early , check out the market for a bit . Then walk to the zoo - it 's historic , and has quite a few animals you do n't see many of . Bonus sights ! Richmond Park - my favourite park in all of London . Take the tube or overland to Richmond , and ask someone for directions from there . It 's about a 20 min walk to get there , and then you 're in the largest open air space in all of Greater London , with two large herds of deer , and a protected view all the way back to St Paul 's , the Gherkin and the London Eye . Fantastic place on a clear day , or when there 's fresh snow on the ground :) Borough Market and Southbank - close to London Bridge , and open from Thursday to Saturday , the fresh food and coffee is a great start to your morning , before you walk along Southbank to Tower Bridge , or west to Waterloo . London Bridge station , Borough Market exit , west side of Borough High street .
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
I have now made the trip and can therefore answer my own question . Yes , they do let you take the earlier Thalys train , but you will not have a seat reservation , so the trip may be less comfortable . Taking the earlier train may be seen as a trade-off between time and comfort . Getting to the earlier train in time was easy as I suspected . It took me less than 10 minutes to get off my plane , walk to the station , pick up my ticket at the NS desk and go down to the platform . I believe I would have been able to make it in time even with a slight delay and/or checked-in luggage . Both the guy at the ticket counter and the staff at the platform told me that I would be allowed on the earlier train if it was not full . The staff on the train told me that there would be no empty seats for part of the trip , but that I could always stand in the restaurant car . I was able to sit down from Schiphol to Rotterdam and from Antwerp to Brussels , but on the Rotterdam-Antwerp leg all seats were reserved and occupied , so I had to stand in the restaurant car for roughly a third of the trip . There were 4 of us standing there , so I was not the only one lacking a seat reservation . I got the impression that this was standard practice and that they would normally always let you on the earlier train , but that there was no explicit guarantee . I can imagine that they reserve the right to decline if for instance the train gets really packed . It was definitely worth it for me to take the earlier train , since I was on a tight schedule and I really did n't mind standing for part of the trip . On the other hand , if you ´ re not in a hurry and you do n't mind spending an extra hour in Schiphol , having a seat reservation would probably make your train ride more enjoyable . Taking the earlier train probably does n't always mean that you have to stand for part of the trip , and you can always ask before you get on if it means you will have to stand .
For most purposes , German train tickets have three price categories : local and regional trains ( branded S , RB or RE ) , ' regular ' long-distance trains ( IC or EC ) and ' express ' long-distance trains ( ICE ) . Your ticket is only valid for transport in the cheapest train categories ( S , RB or RE ) . The easiest option to find only these trains in the DB route planner is to tick the check-box for ' local transport ' . You can also select ' further search options ' and under ' connections / less means of transport ' select exactly which train category to search for .
end question
start question
Where can I get a typhoid vaccination in Zagreb ?
I ended up getting a typhoid shot at the Zagreb city-run Andrija Stampar Teaching Institute of Public Health ( Croatian : Zavod za javno zdravstvo " Dr. Andrija Štampar " , <URL> ) . The address is <URL> . Look for the signs for " epidemiologija " , just to the left inside the main entrance . The medical staff spoke good English , the cost was around $ 30 ( April 2016 ) , and I was in and out in about 20 minutes .
<URL> tastes good to me , especially their Tiramisu line . I bought it in Thailand , but it 's made in Malaysia , so it should be widely available .
Of course you can ! <URL> in <URL> is the place you want to go to , since a former competitor in Texas ( Texas Tank Adventure ) has apparently closed their doors . Drive A Tank is a family owned and operated business in Kasota , Minnesota , USA . Here you can experience real armored tanks up close and personal , get behind the controls and attempt to navigate our densley wooded course . You can even crush a car or two ! We have a number of U.S. vehicles and several imported British M.B.T.s , S.P.G.s , and A.P.C.s ! Afterwards , sample a few of our fully automatic machine guns in our indoor shooting range . Our state of the art facility is capable of handling up to .50 caliber ammunition . For those who live too far from Minnesota , there are possibilities in <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> as well , to name just a few . Just remember : Tanks are n't built for comfort , so if a seriously bumpy ride leaves you with horrible headaches , then this may not be for you - or you need to bring your painkillers .
Frankly , the ' best ' raw freely available interface is ITA Matrix . While you ca n't actually book flights on it , it allows you to specify any number of airpots , combinations , routing codes and more - it 's really powerful . It then also breaks down the booking codes , so that you can in theory take those to a travel agent and they can match the route . Or , once you see that the best flight from A to B via H is with Airline Z , you then start looking at booking sites for that flight with Z , or directly on Z 's website . For amazing detail on how to use it , as well as its undocumented features , <URL> . In some ways it 's like a form of programming when you look at it , example :
I found a helpful video for exactly this problem - and it 's an easy solution : just put a pillow under your midsection and your spine will be much better supported . <URL>
For classical tourism locations , you might be having troubles since people of that age do not really like to travel to temples and other places that tourists like . Younger Japanese people prefer to go abroad ( Korea , Hong Kong , Thailand ) since this is often cheaper than traveling in Hong Kong . And since they have to go to Japanese temples and museums with the schools , they are rather happy not to have to do that once they have a choice . If you want to meet young people , nightlife is surely the better solution , no matter where . On the other hand , you might want to consider locations like Tokyo Disneyland or DisneySea , since those also attract a lot of different aged people . Another option that I can highly recommend is going to Matsuri ( festivals ) , concerts and fireworks , specially now that summer is approaching . Why ? <URL> happen frequently and are often used by younger people to dress up and meet . They normally last one day or a weekend and allow you to interact with people . You will of course also meet families with kids , but still have a fair share of younger people . Many temples have one day in the year where they organize one , and often block off some smaller street from the traffic where then small games are setup for people to ( pay and ) play . While there are much bigger ones , the smaller ones will allow you more to meet people who live around the corner . <URL> , specially in Tokyo can be a huge event where more people show up than you would care to count ( approaching a million ) . For the ones in Tokyo Bay , you will likely see the largest amount of people outside a stadium ever in your life . But since people go there early to find a spot to see the fireworks , stand around , drink beer and eat street food for hours , they present a perfect opportunity to walk around until you meet a friendly group you can share a beer with . The biggest difference from the Matsuri is that people come from further away , and whomever you meet might not be able to stay in touch with you . Concerts are great to meet people for all the obvious reasons , same as everywhere else in the world . If you get to show that you like Japanese music , you show your interest in the local culture and will most likely not meet a lot of other foreigners . One more option to mention are general hangout-spots like parks , open-air restaurants and bars etc. . Since Japan after all is a crowded place , wherever you go will give you options to sit close to people without coming over creepy and get to talk to people . I personally found that just sitting at a sushi-counter is a great place to start conversations with the chef and in return also with the people sitting next to you .
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
After quite a bit of research , I wonder whether this is n't some sort of weird combination of stories . <URL> exists . That 's not under debate . For this you need to go to China or the US , especially in Louisiana . Now most commonly , turtle soup in China is made with soft-shelled turtles . This is important , because <URL> !! Now given that a lot of animals are prone to wetting themselves when frightened , then it would stand to reason that if instead of cooking the turtle , you dipped it in the water , it might well pee / poop in the water ... One other less sanitary means of doing it is demonstrated <URL> , although it 's not particularly kind to the turtle .
It 's not that extreme . For mountains and forests : a ) Do n't block the road , not even partially . If that means you ca n't park , do n't . And do n't park in turns etc. where the car ca n't be seen by other drivers before reaching it . ( Remember buses , on roads where you would never expect them ) . b ) If it is eg . a road to a ski lift in winter , or touristy for some other reason , and you 're near a parking area , better use it . Otherwise , you should be fine . On most mountain roads etc. , outside of villages , you wo n't find marked parking space at all . However , I 'm not sure what you mean with " days " . If you plan to leave your car to sleep in the woods with a sleeping bag , someone could see your car on the roadside several times with some hours between = > worrying what happened to the owner = > car removed and police searching for you . In such situations , find a proper place to leave it . For small villages : If they 're small enough to not have marked parking space , you ca n't use it ...
As per this <URL> , Kingfisher has filed a fresh flight schedule with DGCA ( Director General of Civil Aviation ) . Apparently , they have cut down their total number of flights to 170 ( from around 248 ) daily . Here is the link for updated flight schedules for the month of February . <URL> . To answer the second part of your question , " We have received reports about large-scale cancellations . They are bound to inform us when they cut their schedule . But they have not done so , " DGCA chief E K Bharat Bhushan said the DGCA had sent messages to all other airlines to accommodate passengers stranded due to the Kingfisher cancellations . " They have to do this without enhancing the fares , " he said . <URL> . According to DGCA regulation ( Section 3.3 <URL> ) , when an airline cancels its flight due to reason within its control , it needs to compensate the passenger , provide alternative flight or mode of other transport . The amount of compensation could vary from Rs 2,000-4 ,000 . In such a situation , an airline can put its passenger on the flight of other airline by paying them the price . If the other airline has vacant seats , it can not refuse to take passenger . I am not sure how easy it will be to get a seat in another airlines though . Another factor to consider is that some of the routes that Kingfisher was operating in was serviced exclusively by them .
There are many resources you can look at . You can probably start with official tourist guides for the states such as <URL> or <URL> , but if not you can probably <URL> or use <URL> , which has some of the many rodeos listed state by state .
Only one of the ETR .300 Settebello trainsets survives . ETR .302 <URL> Falconara Marittima station , a few km north of Ancona . It 's in a very bad state and you ca n't get inside . <URL> The blog post dates from January 2016 . The train has already been cannibalized , and <URL> in the '90s so it 's not in its original state anyway .
Broadly speaking , tea plantation tourism is not a thing in Japan , for multiple reasons : the picking season is short ( as little as ten days , although Kagoshima squeezes in 4-5 harvests per year ) , they do n't want tourists in the way of the giant lumbering machines that do the bulk of the harvesting , and traditionally the places that process , roast , package and sell tea are separate from those that actually grow it . But ! After way too much searching , I found one group in Kagoshima that organizes tea tours : <URL> ( 茶寿会 ) , who in season run " green tourism " tours every couple of days that tour a live tea plantation and sample some fresh produce , for a token & yen ; 200 per head . Two major catches : you need a group of at least 15 people , and you will likely need a Japanese speaker to book and accompany you . If this sounds like too much hassle , you can pay a visit to <URL> ( 大野岳 ) , from whose viewing platform at the 466m summit you get a panoramic view of all the tea fields around you .
US or Canadian citizens or permanent residents <URL> regardless of where they live . But as part of the <URL> , you must travel to a <URL> for an interview . Currently there are none in California or Nevada . Most of them , predictably , are near the northern border or in Canada .
<URL> has information going back several years . Their level of coverage is generally excellent , although it can vary a little depending on the airline/location . You will need to create a free account in order to view data more than a few days old . Specifically for your flight they do n't have any specific information , only scheduled information that the flight was from Zurich ( ZRH ) to Amsterdam ( AMS ) , departing at 7:25 PM and arriving at 9:00 PM on an Embraer RJ170/190 . The lack of information could mean that there is a hole in their data , or it could mean that the flight did not fly for some reason ( ie , it was canceled ) . Checking that same flight for days before and after there is full information available .
Ireland is part of <URL> that comprises the islands of Ireland , Great Britain , the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands , but <URL> : Unlike the Schengen Agreement , the Common Travel Area provides no mechanism for the mutual recognition of leave to enter and remain , and the United Kingdom and Ireland operate entirely separate visa systems with distinct entry requirements . In general , a United Kingdom visa will not allow a traveller entry to Ireland , nor vice-versa . Since your visa is single entry I would recommend you to stay in Ireland if you can not obtain multiple entry visa .
I 'd go to <URL> , conveniently located between Ueno and Asakusa next to Tawaramachi stn on the Ginza line . It 's Tokyo 's main restaurant wholesale district and sells everything you need for food preparation or presentation at low prices , <URL> has a bit more info . Note that the Japanese term for lacquerware is shikki ( 漆器 ) , urushi-nuri is the coating itself . Note that lacquerware is , paradoxically , one of those things where the more you pay , the less you get , since the real thing is fragile , stains easily and is difficult to clean without causing damage . My wife only trots out her set for New Year 's , and she puts a layer of plastic wrap between food and plate when she does ! Plastic imitations are much cheaper ( hundreds of yen vs thousands ) , much more practical and not easily distinguished by the naked eye , although for seriously decorative pieces ( eg . the pieces towards the bottom of <URL> ) , the real thing will be your only option .
Like any country , a visa is just an endorsement allowing you a specific period of time in a country based on your citizenship ( and other potential factors ) . However , once you 're at the border , the border agents / authorities can and will still make a further assessment . They might evaluate : your ability to support yourself while in the country your intent in the country ( you might be on a tourist visa , but they suspect you 're coming to work/do business ) your possessions ( eg if found with something illegal ) your history ( some countries wo n't let you in if your passport shows you 've been to countries that they 're not fans of ) as a result , yes , even if you have a legitimate visa , it 's still possible ( generally unlikely , but possible ) for you to be rejected at the border . For another question we have which is related to this , see <URL>
Buses run infrequently and are privatized so it 's extremely difficult to document . Taking the subway to Giza and connecting by mini-bus is much more difficult then catching the No 355/357 behind the Egyptian Museum . It 's an " unofficial " stop , costs two Egyptian pounds , is air conditioned and will take you right to the base of the pyramids . Things to remember , you have to " hail " buses in Egypt for the most part . Behind the museum a local will normally do it for you and you can just piggy back on their quick acting . Bus numbers are in Arabic , mini-bus or regular . My girlfriend always tells people when looking for that bus , Arabic is backwards " 7 " " 0 " " V " . Good luck and have fun . Egyptians are friendly and will help you if you ask , just do n't let them lead you anywhere ... you 'll see what I mean ;-) All harmless fun though !
end question
start question
From what point on the earth 's surface could you view the most UK counties ?
The Wrekin in Shropshire ... Shropshire , Staffordshire , Lancashire , Gloucestershire , West Midlands , with Greater Manchester County if you count it as distinct from Lancashire . The Wrekin / ˈriːkɨn / is a hill in east Shropshire , England . It is located some 7 km ( 4.3 mi ) west of Telford , on the border between the unitary authorities of Shropshire and Telford and Wrekin . Rising to a height of 407 metres ( 1,335 ft ) above the Shropshire Plain , it is a prominent and well-known landmark , signalling the entrance to Shropshire for travelers westbound on the M54 motorway . [ 1 ] The Wrekin is contained within the northern panhandle of the Shropshire Hills AONB . The hill is popular with walkers and tourists and offers good views of Shropshire . It can be seen well into Staffordshire and the Black Country , and even as far as the Beetham Tower in Manchester , Winter Hill in Lancashire and Cleeve Hill in Gloucestershire . <URL> Traditionally ( i.e. , as a matter of local folklore ) , the peak gives views of 17 counties , but they are not authoritatively enumerated like the Wiki ... Like the Snowdon claim , the seventeen counties assertion has appeared in numerous guidebooks and magazine articles since 1860 and persists up to the present day . On the website answerbank ( an online version of the traditional Notes and Queries format ; see www.theanswerbank.co.uk ) one contributor in June 2008 posed the question ' What are the seventeen counties that can be seen from the Wrekin in Shropshire ? ' . <URL>
In short , no . Remember , you 're dealing with a bunch of government bureaucrats here , you 'll still need to satisfy <URL> . That said , having evidence of previous travel and ( the important part ! ) having returned home will be helpful in proving that you 're not planning to migrate to the EU permanently . However , I do n't think you 'll be able to apply while still in the UK , since <URL> . The good news is that obtaining a Schengen visa is relatively easy compared to getting a UK visa : lower application fees , shorter application forms , less supporting documentation needed , more locations where one may apply ( VFS global offices in 15 + cities , if you apply from Russia ) , a straightforward application process , shorter processing times .
I always have one or two plastic bottles with me . I empty them before I go through security and then re-fill them from a tap in the restroom in the waiting area . I 've done this many times , and security never asked about the empty bottles , and even if they do you can explain what they are for .
Google Earth can do this . Click on the Sun-icon and draw the slider around until you see the sun rising : Example is from Google Earth 6.0.3.2197 . This is mainly suitable if you need only one place and time , not if you need full tables of many places and times . Also , of course , in mountainous areas the answer is extremely local , but no tool can give you an answer on a meter-precision , so unless you have a highly detailed digital elevation model , Google Earth is probably the most accurate you can get . Otherwise , you might want to ask over at <URL> .
For most Frequent Flyer programs , and especially for United Mileage Plus , the best use of miles is to use them for flights . United 's mileage flight cost is based on regions ( with one exception which is distance based for flights less than 700 miles ) , so there are definitely some flights that are better value than others . Firstly , there 's 2 tiers of flights - " Saver " and " Standard " . Saver awards are half the cost of Standard awards , but availability is limited , where Standard awards are available on any flight where seats are available for sale . Obviously this makes Saver awards a better option , but if you 're looking at booking a ticket on a near-full flight , a Standard award still might be a good option compared to buying a very expensive paid ticket ! Next there 's the class of ticket . You can book Economy , Business or First class tickets with miles - with Business or First being an amazingly good deal , especially for International . Business Class tickets cost only about 60 % more than Economy , and First are only twice the Economy price . If you compare that to paying with cash , where business will normally be 3-10 times the economy price , and first even more , it 's a great use of miles . With the exception of flights less than 700 miles , all flights are priced in terms of regions . eg , anywhere in the US to anywhere else in the US is 25,000 miles return as a saver economy award . If you were to pay cash , that could cost you anywhere between ( say ) $ 150 and $ 1500 - obviously the best use of miles is when the flight is selling for a much higher price . International flights are when things can become great value . eg , a return trip to Australia from anywhere in the US is only 80,000 miles in economy - only about 3 times the cost of a round trip within the US . The region-based pricing , along with the ability to have a stopover on a return trip means that you can build some fairly good trips . eg , I recently flew San Francisco to Sydney , then Brisbane to Bangkok , to Singapore , to Hong Kong , and then back to San Francisco - all in Business class , on 4 different airlines , for only 135,000 miles . That 's the same number of miles it would have cost to fly to Sydney alone - but due to the region concept I was able to come back via Asia for the same price as returning direct ! Return bookings allow for one stopover and one open-jaw . You can also book one-way awards , which are especially useful if flights are expensive in one direction , but cheap in the other . When comparing paid v 's redemption flights , most people work on miles being worth about 2-3 cents each - if it 's cheaper than that , just pay cash , otherwise consider using miles . eg , if a flight will cost 12,500 miles ( one-way economy saver award ) , and you can buy it for $ 125 , then pay cash ! However if the same flight will cost $ 400 ( ie , 3.2 cents/mile ) , then it 's a good opportunity to use miles . UPDATE : A few months ago United changed the prices for some of it 's award flights . The biggest change was that some awards on " partner " airlines , especially in business/first class , now cost more than the United equivalents . Most everything above still holds , but in terms of best value for points , premium cabin flights on United airlines now work out cheaper than premium cabin flights on other partner/Star Alliance airlines .
Will You Break Even ? In my opinion you would be lucky to break even at the end of the trip . The wear-and-tear from such a long journey alone could cause the motorbike to devalue so much as to lose any margin of profit when reselling it . Having said this , why not do some maths ? Assumptions For the purpose of this answer I will be assuming the following : You will fly to India You will buy a new motorbike You will drive all the way back from Madras to London ( Why Madras ? Because why not ? ) You will drive on the best possible roads , to minimise wear-and-tear ( ha ! ) You will be able to pass all the custom checks in all the countries you will travel through You will be able to import the bike in the UK ( at a cost , of course ) Data Crunching Let 's put some data down . According to <URL> the cost of a new Royal Enfield in India oscillates between 100,000 - 200,000 ( 1074.7 - 2149.4 ) using google and today 's rates - March 2015 ) depending on the model . Let 's pick an average 150,000 ( 1612.05 & sim ; 1600 ) . Now let 's look at the average selling price for Royal Enfield bikes in the UK , via ebay . A <URL> yields selling prices ranging 1200 - 3000 for used , non-collectors , models ( those 99 ads you see are just the deposit for a new bike , whose real cost is something around 4999 ) . The air distance between Madras and London is 8218.75 km , to get a road distance estimate I would say multiply that by 3 , which gives 24656.25 km rounded up to 25,000 km . ( Funny side note , <URL> . ) It is safe to assume that your Royal Enfield will be quite beat after this 25,000 km journey , and thus you wo n't be able to sell it with just slight wear-and-tear , let alone brand new . An ( overly ) optimistic estimate could be selling it for less than half the price of a new one . I.e. something in the range of 2000 . You will have to at least clean it up and polish it , if you do n't consider changing oil , filter , gasket , transmission , etc. . Consider an average petrol price of 1,20 per litre ( this might be an overstimate ) , and an <URL> , you would be looking at a total estimated fuel cost of 25,000 / 27.5 * 1.2 = 1090.91 ( & sim ; 1100 ) . You 're Losing Money Given the following data one can easily see that , by factoring in our estimates -- buying price , wear , selling price and petrol costs -- you are left with a loss of ( + 2000 - 1600 - 1100 ) = -700 . This calculation is of course missing fundamental items such as food , accommodation , paperwork ( and costs ) at each border crossing , unforeseeable roadside maintenance operations , just to name a few . With this in mind , your loss could in fact be order of magnitudes higher -- something along the lines of a few thousand pounds . Royal Enfield Says No to Personal Imports ! According to the <URL> , vehicles sold in India will not pass the UK MOT , so all our conjectures might in fact be <URL> : The following points outline some of the factors that need to be considered in order to evaluate what is involved when you carry out a private import . The scenario is as per the current terms and conditions prevailing , but you should be aware that legislation is constantly changing in these countries to prevent such imports . Indian motorcycle models are different from EEC/UK/USA models and will not pass a Ministry of Transport ( MOT ) test . Models meant for other countries are not sold in India . The Indian model motorcycles can not be registered in any other country other than India or SAARC nations as they do not meet the statutory norms prevailing there . All UK/EEC specification motorcycles comply with Whole Vehicle Type Approval ( WVTA ) and have VIN plates . From June 2003 , all models of bike , not previously imported into the UK/EEC , must have a WVTA with the consequent VIN plate and Certificate of Conformity from Royal Enfield . All USA specification motorcycles comply with FMVSS rules and regulations and have a VIN plate . Each individual state in the USA also has registration rules that parallel the Federal rules so even if a bike somehow gets past US Customs the owner will most likely be unable to register the motorcycle . A motorcycle that does not comply with the UK or EEC or USA rules may not have valid insurance , thus leaving the owner liable to an insurance company refusing to pay out on any claim , including third party liability . Royal Enfield will not be liable for registration , compliance certificates or any documents whatsoever , which may be required for the private import of our bikes and it will be purely at the risk of the buyer . Of course they might just be saying this because they want you to buy from their ( more expensive ) local dealers . Or maybe they actually know what they are talking about . Or maybe even a bit of both . Up to you to judge .
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
Funnily enough , there 's scientifically exact solution to this - it 's known as the <URL> and is considered to be NP-complete - it is expected that no algorithm can be both correct and fast ( polynomial-time ) on ALL cases . But naturally there are tips and suggestions to help guide you towards an optimal solution . Running shoes , it 's good to remember , have space inside them . Stuff socks , chargers and whatever else fits into them ! Oddly , I pack my jacket last . As you 've pointed out it takes tons of space if put in first , no matter how you fold it . But I find I can stuff it in no matter what at the end , and it means it 's easily accessible if the weather changes . I also find that ' hard ' solid items ( netbooks ) can make room for themselves after the fact . I 'll just force-slide it down the back of my pack , and it never seems to not fit :) Now , for the main set of clothes , assuming you have ' sets ' , the Bundle wrap method saves a lot of space and keeps stuff quite well folded and together . See <URL> . Also <URL> . And I ca n't answer this without linking to <URL> - it 's famous among minimalist travellers for giving you suggestions about what to keep/lose to lighten your load or fit more in .
According to the website <URL> , you can see seven countries from the summit of <URL> on the Kosovo-Macedonia border . The countries are : Kosovo Macedonia Albania ( several peaks ) Serbia ( several peaks ) Greece ( at least one peak , Vitsi ) Bulgaria ( some scattered areas ) Montenegro ( at least one peak on the border and some scattered areas within the country ) The shading of the alleged view as well as marking of several peaks can be seen at this link : <URL> . I found this peak by clicking on promising peaks at that webpage at random . The Wikipedia page on the mountain does not have this factoid . I have no idea about common weather conditions in the area ( how often the air is clear in all directions ) . Moreover , you have to subscribe to the foreign policy of one of the 108 countries that recognize Kosovo for this to be a record . It should in any case have the record of " highest increase of number of countries viewable in the modern era " as the area in question did only contain 4 countries prior to 1992 , and is in any case a tie to the Swiss mountain in JoeDeRose 's answer .
So I found an answer in a <URL> , although someone may have a more detailed route , especially as it gets closer to the Olympics themselves .
Fast Lanes Are a No As you correctly point out , the UK is one of those countries where vehicles drive on the left hand lane . This means that overtaking is done by passing vehicles on the right . I do n't think that a the concept of a fast lane exists on UK motorways since one should always occupy the leftmost free lane and switch to adjacent lanes on the right solely to overtake . Indeed this is reflected <URL> : Rule 264 You should always drive in the left-hand lane when the road ahead is clear . If you are overtaking a number of slower-moving vehicles , you should return to the left-hand lane as soon as you are safely past . So Is Undertaking For completeness sake note that undertaking , I.e. passing vehicles on their inside ( left ) lane is forbidden in the UK , except for when dense traffic conditions force vehicle to proceed slowly on parallel lanes . Quoting from <URL> : Rule 268 Do not overtake on the left or move to a lane on your left to overtake . In congested conditions , where adjacent lanes of traffic are moving at similar speeds , traffic in left-hand lanes may sometimes be moving faster than traffic to the right . In these conditions you may keep up with the traffic in your lane even if this means passing traffic in the lane to your right . Do not weave in and out of lanes to overtake .
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
Telling the truth that your are married is correct and after giving the invitation letter and salary certificates . I do n't think there wont be any issue at all . If possible , if you have marriage certificate , there are no chances to question your wife anything thereafter .
City of Mountain View , CA , has no street meters that I know of , so , all parking is free , even covered parking ! When visiting the downtown at Castro St , there is some street parking right on Castro St , as well as several parking lots , and even two several-story parking structures ( on the west side of Castro St ) , all free . Generally , there is a limit on daytime parking , of 2 or 3 hours , but in the evenings , you can generally park for as long as you want . Map here : <URL>
The " Red Service Sleeper Cabin " is 2nd class and they indeed have power outlets . At least in 2007 I charged my laptop to watch movies on the train . I heard beforehand that the food is n't that great at least not worth the money , so I brought food to cater myself . Bring a book and lots of movies/series to watch . I 'm not sure about the booking ahead . I just provide you links to <URL> and <URL> . source : <URL>
Very simple : From the <URL> last sentence . A federal or state law enforcement agency may request the denial of a passport on several regulatory grounds under 22 CFR 51.70 and 51.72 . The principal law enforcement reasons for passport denial are a federal warrant of arrest , a federal or state criminal court order , a condition of parole or probation forbidding departure from the United States ( or the jurisdiction of the court ) , or a request for extradition . The HHS child support database and the Marshals Service WIN database are checked automatically for entitlement to a passport . Denial or revocation of a passport does not prevent the use of outstanding valid passports . So if you have a passport that is valid . Until you 're in the country that shares information with country revoking the passport and chooses to comply with this revocation the only country you 're not going to be able to enter would be the country issuing the passport .
The US Center for Disease Control ( CDC ) <URL> ( active ingredient being p-menthane 3,8-diol ) . There was also apparently a claim that <URL> at repelling mosquitoes , but I 've never encountered any catnip-based repellents . Outdoor retailer <URL> of the pros and cons of common insect repellents , but they do n't really cite research . DEET seems to be agreed upon as the most effective insect repellent , but there are a lot of arguments about its safety . The ATSDR ( a sub-agency of the CDC ) has <URL> about the effect of DEET in humans . They cite several other studies and summarize reports of ( many upsetting ) side effects of DEET use , including this one : A study was done involving 143 National Park Service employees at Everglades National Park to determine the effects of DEET on varying use groups . Exposure groups were classified as low ( non-users ) , medium ( 0.01-0 .52 g/day ) and high ( 0.71-69 .38 g/day ) use of DEET . It was found that 36 of the workers ( 25 % ) reported health effects that they attributed to DEET . These effects included rashes , skin or mucous membrane irritation , transient numb or burning lips , dizziness , disorientation , and difficulty concentrating . Headache and nausea were also reported . A statistically significant difference was not found between reported effects from high-exposure and medium-exposure workers , although the incidences were significantly higher than in the non-users ( McConnell et al. 1987 ) . <URL> from Field &amp; Stream I think summarizes the matter best : there is no real consensus about the issue of DEET , and no singular authoritative voice on the subject . On a personal note , I avoid DEET almost entirely because I 'd rather deal with insect bites ( and take anti-malarials when traveling ) than risk exposure to something potentially <URL> . Finally , I 've never come across any literature that says what medium of repellent is most effective ( spray v. lotion ) . I think the concentration of the active ingredient is more likely to affect the product more than its viscosity . P.S. My uncle has a hiking friend who swears that taking cayenne pepper capsules is the best insect repellent . I 'm not really sure if there 's anything to back that up .
This is an excerpt from <URL> and <URL> See also <URL> even though it is about to be marked duplicate . <URL> has very powerful search options ( see the advanced options ) , including choice of return and departure day , length of stay , period within which the trip should happen and a range of departure and arrival airports . Exactly as you ask they look for connections on separate tickets <URL> , even on different ( low-cost ) airlines . <URL> <URL> does the same and let 's you circle departure/destination in on a map , has date range and also some kind of " promise " to help you if you miss a non-guaranteed connection . Finally be aware of <URL>
With the exception of ticket prices , <URL> does most of what you want . One can search by city , by hall , by orchestra , by composer , or by work ( or any combination thereof ) , and find performances for the next year . The listings are n't complete -- it focuses on major orchestras in major cities -- but that 's probably what you would be interested in for travel purposes . <URL>
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
end question
start question
Why flight itineraries ca n't be changed online ?
Changing flights is a complex process that involves a lot of rules ( differences in applicable fare classes , collecting additional fees or possibly issuing partial refunds , etc ) . Like any complex business process , it would cost a lot of money to develop an easy-to-use/intuitive web-based interface for it that any user ( not a professionally trained ticketing agent ) could use . The investment to build such a web application is simply not worth it for most airlines and travel sites . They make their money from ticket sales , not from ticket changes , so it 's logical that this is where they would invest . Very few people will specifically prefer to buy from travel provider X only because travel provider X has an easy web-based way of changing tickets . And ticket change fees are usually high enough to more than justify the hourly rate of the ticketing agent manually changing the ticket over the phone . Having said all this , if you are a savvy traveler , you can speed up the manual process by doing your research ahead of time ( find the exact flight you want to change to online , find out if it has the fare class you need , etc ) - this way , it 's a simple matter of telling the flight number and date to the phone agent .
Until few months ago , french railways had the monopoly of long distance travel . This has changed recently and Eurolines now offers <URL> .
One option ( that may not suit you exactly , but will be useful for other searchers of a question like this ) is <URL> . <URL> described it as the solution to the problem " Have you ever met that special someone on a plane but for whatever reason you did n't end up exchanging your contact details with each other and later regretted it ? Without their name , how are you going to find them on Facebook ? "
Purchasing the E-Vignette Online It seems that the vignettes can be purchased after registering on the <URL> . You click on the icon of your vehicle and are redirected to the registration/login page . Pricing Information Regarding the pricing , I could not find any information signalling different prices between on-line and off-the-shelf purchases . I am therefore assuming the prices are the same , and this makes sense since we are talking about an electronic vignette -- no shipping costs , etc. . Here is some information about pricing , taken from <URL> : The amount of the toll depends on the category of the motor vehicle . The toll categories are as follows : D1 : motorcycles , and motor vehicles with a maximum total permissible weight of 3.5 tons , including any trailers . B2 : buses and campers ( with trailers ) with a maximum total permissible weight over 3.5 tons . As of December 2014 , the prices are ( adapted from <URL> ) :
You 're doing something wrong -- Cleveland has <URL> to both <URL> and <URL> .
There are many possibilities here , and there 's no definitive answer , travel pricing is complex enough just looking at flights when you start talking bundles it gets worse . First off , this is n't impossible but it 's also not always the case , depends on where you 're going , for how long and what time of year ( also what particular days , weekend/weekday ) . So I 'd just accept it , be pleased and move on . You 'd have to check the conditions on your confirmation to see if you need to stay at the hotel , but the most you 'd likely have to do is check-in / check-out nobody will check you 're actually staying in the room . So why the low price ? First you 're booking something on short-notice , generally that means higher prices . Perhaps Expedia have a deal with the airlines where they pre-buy X seats on a given route at a much lower price a long time ago . Expedia knows from experience that they can sell enough to cover the costs , the airline knows that they have some guaranteed money which is good on flights that might not otherwise sell out . The same goes for hotels . I 'm assuming the flight you 're getting is the same as one of the ones you priced separately -- i.e. Expedia has n't given you a charter flight or linked two different ends together . It may just be that Expedia gets a discount from some airline that 's not available to people booking directly . As I said , there are lots of possible reasons , if you let us know where you were going ( and where from ) it might be possible to come up with something more specific .
Yes , something has changed . As explained in <URL> , the change was announced in June 2014 , and went live in March 2015 United have put up a fairly good <URL> , which I 'd suggest you review . The number of miles you get , when flying on United or United Express now depends on two things : How much you spent What status you have with United A base member will earn 5 MileagePlus miles per dollar spent , while a Premier 1K gets 11 . Partner flights are different though , they seem to be close ( r ? ) to the old style of earnings . The key part of it is these two tables here : If you want to know more , there 's a <URL> and a <URL> , if you wade through enough posts there you 'll find everything you wanted to know on the change and the impact , amongst everything else ...
<URL> is the group that manages passenger travel within Germany , and is responsible for the managing , ticketing , servicing and running of all German Intercity-Express , EuroCity , Intercity and Regionalbahn trains , and many commuter-oriented urban Stadtschnellbahn ( generally abbreviated as S-Bahn ) networks within Germany . The group also handles the information and customer service side of the operation . Presumably as your train is running from Dijon , France to Basel , Switzerland , it may fall on a route not covered by DB Bahn . Yes , some of the other routes by its partner companies may be included , but there are competitors on the rail network as well , and there 's no requirement to have those included on their site . Indeed , from <URL> : The Deutsche Bahn 's site does n't show fares for most trains outside Germany and Austria .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
I am no definite expert on the topic but this customization of a flight , called <URL> , are usually marketed to travel agents as a profit generator . First let 's clarify the different actors . The airlines offer and operate flights , the GDS ( Global Distribution System ) companies distribute the flights to travel agents and the latter sell to the traveller ( you ) . The travel agents can be your local travel agent in his office , the online travel agent ( OTA ) like Expedia , Opodo or Kayak , or the airline itself through its website , phone service or offices . In all cases the travel agent <URL> to the customer . The travel agent probably pays to implement the service distribution ( to the GDS ) and receives a fee per transaction made . As meal selection is not generally a lucrative option - it is usually free of charge and I think religious or allergic people would react badly if they had to pay to get a specific meal - it is not worth offering for the travel agents . As @drat commented , the airlines have also little incentives ( and higher logistic costs ) to offer them . So it makes sense not to offer meal choice directly online . Note that some OTAs offer a free text field at the end of the booking without promising it will be read by anyone ( I have seen that on govoyages , for example ) . In the case of Emirates and Singapore Airlines , I have in mind that their image is based on open-mindedness , globalization and respect of the culture of the travellers . I insist on the fact that it is the image I have , you might not feel the same . But offering a choice of meal is a good marketing argument for a world-wide growing airline . On the opposite , Air Transat mostly targets Canadians visiting the Caribbean and transatlantic travellers , with less of a variety of travellers . Offering a large variety of meals would be more a burden than a marketing argument to them . And Air Transat offers ancillary services on their website like seat selection , so it is a deliberate choice not to offer meal selection . In the end , I suppose that the reasons are economical . It costs less to offer less choice and not to prepare too many meals . It depends on the travel agent you buy your tickets from , but there is no rule for who offers meal selection or does not . If it matters a lot , you can try to buy your ticket from another travel agent , it might work better .
Doing so seems impossible before check-in but is no hassle at ( online - ) check-in . So I did call up website support and customer service of Lufthansa and Miles &amp; More . Staff was not knowledgeable on my request and they even wrongly told me there was no chance to change the loyalty program selected during booking at all ( but the same employee did take out the originally selected program from the records ) . However it was no problem selecting the milage program to which to credit miles at online check-in .
It 's actually quite simple . The reason they do this is to make sure you are able to help others . What do I mean by this ? During an emergency where the air in the plane is thinning , it is important that you are able to breathe . You can become light headed and if you are trying to help someone put their mask on and you are becoming dizzy , it is n't as effective if you are able to think clearly in the situation . Think about it this way , imagine you and a friend have been shot in the leg . If you are in agony and ca n't think clearly , how much do you think you can help your friend ? Now imagine you have stopped the bleeding on your own leg and bandaged it . You are now much more capable of providing aid to your friend . The same applies here . If you are sitting next to your family and becoming dizzy , disoriented , and fumbling with your child 's mask , you are not just harming yourself to save the child , but also not giving the best aid possible . It is much better to put your own mask on , remain calm , think clearly , and provide aid to your family so that neither are hindered . I 'd like to add this ( sourced from here : <URL> ) First of all you should know that in a commercial passenger flight the oxygen masks contain enough oxygen only for 12 minutes and after that everyone on board will go unconscious due to Hypoxia ( oxygen deprivation ) . If the flight is at an higher altitude like 20,000 ft. or above , within 20 to 60 seconds one can get unconscious . This is the main reason flight attendants always advise you to put the oxygen masks first and then assist your children or other passengers -- in case of an emergency .
Short answer : Nothing out of the usual . The days of bandits roaming the mountains seem to be long gone . According the <URL> , the main risks are pickpocketing and theft from cars , the same as in <URL> and the <URL> ( and pretty much anywhere in Europe ) . Landmines were laid on the Kosovo-Albania border in the 1990s , but <URL> they were all cleared out by 2006 .
Many of the major airlines do have self-service checkin machines at the airport . I know <URL> , allows printing forgotten or failed prints . If your airlines does not have these self service machines , and you are not yet at the airport , try going to a print or copyshop . Most airports these days have these shops , but sometimes they can have quite some waiting queues , which will be adding stress to your journey . Depending on the airline you are traveling , you could choose to use a <URL> as an alternative boarding card . This only works if your boarding pass has a bar code they use to scan prior to boarding . What you need to do is make a pdf of your boarding pass and store it on your device . I always do this these days and this already saved me once . A final option is to just approach the check in desk and ask a reprint . This is the least favorable solution , since the whole idea behind online check in is to minimize contact time at a manned checkin desk . Some airlines are then reluctant to help you in these request , some airlines ( Ryanair comes to mind ) have a hefty fee if you ask for a reprint . In the case of Ryanair this is 40 euros or even higher .
You can get a dramatic reduction in price without sacrificing comfort and safety by selecting a Paris suburb that has good Metro connections ... <URL> is a short walk to ' Boulogne-Pont de Saint-Cloud ' metro station and a quick search locates decent hotels starting at about EUR 85 . <URL> has its own metro station and a quick search locates brand name hotels starting at about EUR 100 ( better deals on the weekends ) <URL> has brand name hotels in the same price range as Saint-Cloud , but requires a 15 minute walk across the bridge to reach the metro station . The commute from these places to central Paris ranges from 30 ( La Défense ) to 60 minutes ( Sèvres ) . These places are in the western suburbs of Paris . I find that area more appealing for reasons vaguely related to safety and long-standing familiarity ( generally not worth going into here ) , but there would be similar opportunities in the southern suburbs also . Adding ... The answer to your question : " Why are hotels in Paris too expensive ? " is because they can .
I did the same last year , I just printed the ticket page and took it along to Spain . No snail mail involved .
Because they can . Not all tourists spend money in the cities and most cities do not get direct benefits from tourist money while they do spend money on public transport , roads and other things tourists use . In most places I have been tourist tax was a very small amount , about 1 % or less of the cost of being a tourist in the town .
Since you 're not using an agency , you 'll need a credit card with a big enough limit . In order to get the confirmation in order , they will need to get the charge approved and posted to your account . When you cancel , you 'll get a credit from them . Time it so that the debit and credit fall within the same billing cycle to avoid having to make a payment or accrue interest . Cancel well in advance of the flight , do n't check in , and use the same website you used to book the ticket . Booking with a Chinese carrier can be expensive . You 're getting the money back ( probably ) , but there will be a sizable charge ( could easily be several thousand RMB ) posted to your card . You may also incur foreign transaction or currency conversion fees from your card provider , quite possibly both coming and going , and these will not be refunded . <URL> will let you cancel full fare economy class tickets for free , as long as you do n't wait until the last minute to do it . I put together a sample ticket on their site from Ho Chi Minh to Guangzhou , leaving May 7 and returning May 8 . Full fare economy price : ~ 8500CNY ( ~ 1400USD ) . To see the details of their cancellation policy , you have to actually select an itinerary through the booking interface , because the refund policies vary by ticket type . 1.3 Rebooking Fee ( per change ) : free to change/rebook . Passengers will also need to pay the difference in fare ( if any ) . For tickets booked on Air China official website , rebooking can be done through the official website or 95583 . For tickets booked through other channels like Taobao flagship store , rebooking can be done through 95583 only . [ 95583 is a special service number you can call only via a Chinese mobile carrier . ] 1.6 Refund fees ( children 's ticket are subject to the same standard that apply to adult tickets ) : Free to refund . For refunds of partially used tickets , the refund amount will be calculated after deducting the fare and taxes corresponding to the flight segment ( s ) used . <URL> ( emphasis added ) : 10.3 Voluntary Refunds 10.3.1 If you are entitled to a refund of your Ticket for reasons other than those set out in 10.2 , the amount of the refund shall be : 10.3.1.1 if no portion of the Ticket has been used , an amount equal to the fare paid , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees ; 10.3.1.2 if a portion of the Ticket has been used , the refund will be an amount equal to the difference between the fare paid and the applicable fare for travel between the points for which the Ticket has been used , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees . 10.5 Right to Refuse Refund 10.5.1 We may refuse a refund where application is made after the expiry of the validity of the Ticket . 10.5.2 We may refuse a refund on a Ticket which has been presented to us , or to Government officials , as evidence of intention to depart from a country , unless you establish to our satisfaction that you have permission to remain in the country or that you will depart from that country by another carrier or another means of transport . That last bit is most likely intended for trying to cancel the return trip after arriving in China , but could technically be employed in your case . The Air China website is actually quite good as Chinese e-commerce platforms go . To cancel , <URL> , click the cancel tab , enter your information , and confirm through . If there 's some problem with the site , it should n't be an issue getting English language <URL> , but you may need to make an international call as I do n't know if the <URL> have English speaking reps. You can probably also cancel by logging in and viewing your details , but I ca n't verify that at this time . For a much lesser charge , ITA Matrix lists China Southern as the cheapest carrier at ~ 7m VND ( ~ 325 USD ) ( same dates and airports ) . <URL> does n't list anything terribly specific either way about cancellations , though it does sound relatively reasonable . After actually picking out an itinerary on their site , I was able to find this ( translation by Google ; no link as it 's JSP generated ) : Cancel Totally unused tickets Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 20.00 ( usd ) . Partially used ticket Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 40.00 ( usd ) . <URL> . They 're a reputable site for English language booking of transportation within China . The copyright notice at the bottom says 2010 , so I do n't know if the data is out of date . According to them , most of the carriers charge a 5 % cancellation fee assuming you cancel well in advance and are flying a full class economy fare . Discounted fares have much steeper cancellation penalties . I have not vetted most of this information , but it matches my experiences with Air China and China Eastern . I also do n't cancel flights much , so take that for what it 's worth .
I just found the right tool for you <URL> , it does exactly what you want , it shows the path along with the day/night status in the exact position of the aircraft . It is a Windows Application ( from the days they used to call it program ) , click on the menu . Here is a screenshot ( the large red dot is the plane ) : And to answer the first part , you will have the sunrise above the ocean , the sunset somewhere above eastern Africa . Disclaimer : I am not the owner of the tool , I found it by searching , I scanned it and it seemed fine . Use it at your own risk .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
end question
start question
Where can you rent watercraft to explore the 30,000 islands in Georgian Bay ?
The 30,000 Islands is a big area ( as the name kind of implies ) . A paddle boat or rowboat is not going to cover more than a tiny fraction of them . However if that 's OK for your uncle , then there are several places you can rent boats in the 30,000 Islands area . Essentially you need to look for a marina on Georgian Bay rather than some other lake . Two places that I know have them are : <URL> <URL> ( for example <URL> ) I would expect to find facilities at Midland , Port Severn and Parry Sound as well . Honey Harbour has the advantage of being right in the middle of the islands . At Midland or Penetanguishene there is going to be substantial open water between you and the islands , which may not be a good idea for a beginner boater . If you stay at the <URL> you can borrow canoes , kayaks and pedal boats for free , and rent fishing boats . However it 's in one of the more crowded areas of the 30,000 Islands ( in terms of boating traffic ) . Unless your uncle has an extremely small car , it probably can carry either a canoe or a kayak . Canoes fit easily on compact car roofs , and the equipment to do so can be very cheaply rented from any good canoe rental place . If he has not done much boating you uncle might also consider renting a small boat with an outboard motor . They are rented frequently to fishermen , and are probably safer than a rowboat or paddleboat , as well as allowing you to see much more of the islands . Finally there are good boat cruises round the 30,000 Islands out of Penetanguishene and Midland .
It ai n't rocket science ! But here 's a few things I thought were pretty obvious , if you really ca n't think of them otherwise : Do not flush the entire bin full of paper . The sign is there to prevent bad things from happening . If the bin is already pretty full , just leave your paper on top of the pile and let the staff know it needs emptying . This is of course worse if the bin has no cover . Avoid using excessive amounts of paper . Do n't " pave " the entire seat and then wipe with massive wads of paper . These systems can usually handle a very small amount of paper so be as sparing as possible , possibly flushing once per sheet or two . The most common reason ( s ) for this is poor plumbing , poor water pressure , poor septic tanks , and/or poor infrastructure that can handle " natural products " but can not handle toilet paper . Occasionally there will be an explanation as well as a " do n't " . Besides some rural areas and islands , this is very common in developing countries and surprisingly also in South Korea , an otherwise very advanced country . I recall being in one country ( possibly South Korea ? ) , that had special toilet paper designed to break down in the system that could not handle normal toilet paper . The signs there said only to use this special paper .
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
It 's actually really easy and common , it turns out . Pity , as I bought a suit in Canada in advance . If you come out of Sa'adi metro station , and walk west - between the station and Ferdowsi avenue on both sides , there are a LOT of suit hire places . Many of them have tuxes as their show pieces in the window , but have regular suit hire too . I 've seen it elsewhere in Tehran , as well as other Iranian cities , but this was the biggest grouping that I found .
From <URL> : Camping There are no public wilderness or common areas in the Faroes . As a consequence , camping is only permitted at designated campsites ( See page 88 ) . Moreover , it is not permitted to stay overnight in your camping cars along the road , at rest stops , lay-bys or view areas . Be aware that many camping sites are designated only for tents . Campers ought to be considerate of the environment , keep the camping areas tidy and clean up thoroughly upon departure . Because of the unpredictable weather even in summer , it is advisable to have sturdy , waterproof and windproof camping equipment . Fuel for camping stoves is available at petrol stations . So no , wild or free camping is not permitted - you have to use designated campsites .
No , you ca n't use PackStation as a transient traveler . To use it , you must be able to pre-register and then receive the registration materials via mail . So you must be in one place long enough to complete this process ( a few weeks minimum ) . I do n't remember whether you actually have to show proof of residency , but the above practical problem will prevent you from using PackStation if you are only " passing through " .
<URL> : Reasons for inadmissibility Note : This is only a guide . A Canadian immigration officer will decide if you can enter Canada when you apply for a visa , an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , or when you arrive at a port of entry . A person may be denied a visa , or an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , refused entry to , or removed from Canada on any of these grounds : security reasons , including espionage subversion ( attempts to overthrow a government , etc. ) violence or terrorism , or membership in an organization involved in any of these human or international rights violations , including war crimes crimes against humanity being a senior official in a government engaged in gross human rights violations or subject to international sanctions committing a serious crime that would be punishable by a maximum prison term of at least 10 years in Canada Footnote 1 having been convicted of a crime , including driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol Footnote 1 organized crime , including membership in an organization that takes part in organized criminal activity , people smuggling or money laundering health grounds -- if their condition is likely to : endanger public health or public safety , or cause excessive demands on health or social services ( some exceptions exist Footnote 2 Footnote 3 ) financial reasons -- if they are unable or unwilling to support themselves and their family members misrepresentation , which includes providing false information or withholding information directly related to decisions made under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act ( IRPA ) failure to comply with any provision of IRPA Footnote 4 or having an inadmissible family member . However , the big disclaimer at the top says that this list is just a guide , and that your admissibility depends exclusively on what the immigration officer handling your case decides . In addition , <URL> of the agreement you linked specifically says that the two countries share information with the purpose of enforcing immigration laws in their respective countries : The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the administration and enforcement of the Parties ' respective immigration laws by : using Information in order to enforce or administer the immigration laws of the Parties ; furthering the prevention , investigation , or punishment of acts that would constitute a crime rendering a National of a Third Country inadmissible or removable under the immigration laws of the Party providing the Information ; or facilitating the Parties ' adjudication of an application for a visa , admission , or other immigration benefit , or determination of whether an individual is to be ordered removed by providing Information regarding the admissibility of the individual . This is to say that Canada can inquire , and if so will be informed , about the US ban . You admissibility will therefore depend solely on the immigration officer 's decision based on all the information they have . They will know what , when , why , and how you overstayed . It goes without saying that one should not omit this information in one 's application . Now , overstaying in a country is generally a red flag when applying for a visa in another country . A previous overstay in any countries makes you immediately untrustworthy , and casts serious doubts about your intentions of actually leaving Canada . Therefore , the answer to whether being banned in the US renders you inadmissible in Canada is likely to be yes .
<URL> , according to Wikitravel . There is no road or rail system . The easiest way to get around Greenland is by plane , particularly Air Greenland . In the summer , Arctic Umiaq Line passenger ships provide service to destinations between Narsarsuaq and Uummannaq along the west coast . Of course , if you got a skidoo or dog sled , you could make your own way around ;) Wikipedia actually has more information - <URL> The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways , no inland waterways , and virtually no roads between towns . It goes into further detail about the few roads that do exist : There are 150 km ( 90 mi ) of roads in the whole country ; 60 km ( 40 mi ) of the roads are paved . Two towns are connected by a 4.5 km road , Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit ; the rest are isolated .
While I initially laughed at the idea , apparently <URL> : Hotel Islazul , Guantánamo city may be able to arrange tours to the American military for around $ 40 though this service is not always available . It does seem to be a long shot though . It 's a US Military base , which generally means off limits unless you 're enlisted , family , or have an invitation . Certainly there is <URL> , if you 're a journalist or in a related field you may have a better chance . But it sounds like Hotel Islazul might be your best shot - perhaps contact them when you arrive . According to <URL> , their contact details would be : Hotel Islazul Guantánamo ** Address : Ahogados y 13 Norte , Guantánamo . Phones . ( 5321 ) 38 1015 / 38 2535 / 38 4555 Email . recephotel@hotelgtmo.co.cu
Sesame Street is currently filmed at the <URL> in Queens , which does not offer public tours ( though the <URL> is open to the public and located on the campus ) . According to the <URL> , Sesame Street is not filmed in front of a live studio audience and the set is not able to accommodate guests . There is a Sesame Street theme park called <URL> in Langhorne , Pennsylvania , about midway between Philadelphia and New York ( near Trenton , New Jersey ) , owned and operated by Sea World . Now , that is only for the original American version of Sesame Street . There are many different versions internationally , and some of those filming locations may allow visitors .
The two main public transportation are <URL> and <URL> . You have quite a few options Murano : from Piazzale Roma or from Venezia Santa Lucia train station , take the ACTV line 3 . The trip takes 20 mins . You could also take line 4.2 but it takes almost 40 mins . From the airport you can reach Murano in 30 mins using the Alilaguna public transportation . If you are in Venice it 's better to go to " S. Zaccaria " stop , near Piazza San Marco , and catch the ACTV line 4.1 , the trip takes around 40 mins . You could also go to " Fondamente Nove " stop and from there you can take line 4.1 or 4.2 and you should be able to reach Murano in 10 mins . From Treporti or Punta Sabbioni or Burano you can take the line 12 . Giudecca : from Piazzale Roma or from the S. Lucia train station you can take ACTV line 2 or 4.1 . If you are in Piazza San Marco , again , go to " S. Zaccaria " stop and take line 2 o 4.2 . From " Zattere " stop you can take the line 2 . There are actually three stops in La Giudecca : " Palanca " , " Redentore " e " Zitelle " . Sant ' Erasmo : From " Fontamente Nove " stop take the line 13 , one every 40 mins during the day and every hour during the night . There are two stops in Sant ' Erasmo . The first one is called " Capannone " after about 35 mins . The second one is called " Chiesa " but be aware that , depending on the time of day , you may need to change boat at the first stop . [ From Venezia to Sant ' Erasmo Capannone timetable : 4.25 - 5.15 - 6.05 - 6.35 -7.25 -8.05 - 8.45 -9.25 - 10.25 -11.25 -12.25 -13.25 -14.25 -15.25 -16.05 -16.45 -17.25 - 18.05 -18.45 -19.40 -20.40 -21.40 -22.40 - ( NOTE : after this you cant reach the second stop " Chiesa " ) 23.20-0 .00 -0.55 -1.55 -2.50 - 2.57 ] [ From Sant ' Erasmo Capannone to Venezia timetable : 5.22 - 6.07 - 6.57 - 7.27 - 8.17 - 8.57 - 9.55 - 10.55 - 11.55 - 12.55 - 13.55 - 14.55 - 15.55 - 16.57-17 .37 - 18.17 - 18.57 - 19.37 - 20.17 - 21.10 - 22.10 - 23.10 - 0.10 - 1.21 - 2.31 - 4.01 ] You have <URL> . I strongly suggest you to read that page carefully in order to see what fits best for you . Since you did n't tell much about the details of your trip it 's hard to guess what is more convenient for you .
It 's definitely legal and possible , but whether it 's practical depends on the airline . Some ( typically state-run airlines ) will allow or even promote such long stopovers as a way to attract tourists to the stopover location . I believe Emirates does this for Dubai . But many other airlines will have drastically higher prices for such tickets as a part of yield management ( which is all about making people who have specific time requirements pay more ) .
There are not many camping sites , but there are some in Germany and some in the Netherlands . I would assume that neither of them have big problems in English , but if you want to make sure , you might want to pick one of these two : <URL> which is specializing in bikers , they take cars of course too <URL> which has a very good TripAdvisor rating Then there are some in Germany , such as <URL> <URL> and one more in the Netherlands : <URL> Of course , all of these are not for free . Generally , you can park anywhere with a camping car where you could also stop with a normal car and sleep there - just like anyone can sleep in their car to take a rest from driving . What is not legal is to take out a table and chairs etc and have a living-there kind of setup . Also , you might want to change the place of the car after 1 night , since a longer stay might be considered a permanent establishment of sorts and is also not allowed . You also have to watch out for blue parking signs with an additional white sign that might restrict certain cars types from parking there .
First of all , here <URL> that lets you search camp sites across Japan . Regarding the two places you mentioned , a quick search resulted in this one : There is a <URL> that lets you stay in a group hut or rent a tent . Here is their <URL> . There seems to be only one camp ground in Yagen Valley , and it does not offer rentals . I also tried to find rental tents ( テントのレンタル ) in Mutsu city but could not find any .
Info from June 2015 It 's very hard to rent a motorbike in Probolinggo . Forget about finding a motorcycle rental company , there is none at the time of writing ( 2015 ) . I literally spent an afternoon trying to find one . Your best option is to rent it from either : your hotel ( they provide this service sometimes ) in Probolinggo a private individual . Do n't be shy , just ask people in shops/warungs . You will most likely be left with this option . Here is a good thread on this topic <URL>
I have n't seen Bridget Jones : the Edge of Reason specifically , but karst islands in Thailand have been used in a couple of other movies . <URL> , for example , was used in The Man With the Golden Gun ( 1974 ) ; and <URL> was used in the 2000 film The Beach . Both of these locations are on the Andaman Sea ( the southwest coast of Thailand ) .
It depends on who you 're hiring from . If you 're hiring from a small , local US hire car company , you might well be out of luck . If you 're hiring from somewhere big , they should be able to help Avis UK have a handy page on <URL> , which covers what you can do depending on where in the world you are . They say that for Avis US locations : Renting from Avis in the USA When renting in the USA , you can rent a car with your photo card licence only , or with your paper counterpart licence and your passport . If you have neither part you can not hire a car from an Avis office in the USA Hopefully other larger companies will be able to do the same . Somewhere small is most likely to only be used to photocard driving licences , so may well not be able to satisfy themselves and their insurers with only the paper part and a passport . In the UK , you can ( normally for an extra fee ) have the hire car company phone up the DVLA , and get confirmation from the DVLA that you hold a valid licence without too many points . That only works when the DVLA are open , and requires that the hire car company know about how to check with the DVLA . Maybe you could find a US hire car office that knew about how to do it , but it 's not that likely , and you 'd struggle with the time overlap of when the hire car place is open and when the DVLA call centre is open . You could always speak to the head office of the hire car place to see if they can set this up in advance though , you might get lucky but do n't count on it !
The English version of the expression seems to be mudflat hiking , as you can see on <URL> about it In Dutch it is called ' wadlopen ' and when you google that you will find many locations , <URL> is a site that combines several locations . On the Wikipedia page above you will find link to more sites , I use the Wadlopen Frieslân site for the rest of the answer as it has a lot of information in a handy format . The explanation text is translated into English , the menu part at the bottom is not , the menu at the top is in English and leads to English pages . The bottom menu lists : ' Wadlopen ' ( clothing and shoes , FAQ , conditions , photographic impression ) ' <URL> ' ( list of locations , use a map to find them ) ' dates ' ( list of months May to October inclusive ) ' links ' ' about us ' ( with our guides ) and ' contact ' ( with phone number ) Each of those is a link . In an other site I found that they do tours round the year , but those are only close to the island Texel and return to base , so the length of the tour can be adjusted to the weather . As they explain in the text , if you want to do a tour and it is not available , they will try to find you an alternative . In the height of summer there will be more tours , early and late in the season it will be down to the weekends and maybe one extra in a school holiday week . In the ' mostly ' English page for <URL> you find a description , followed by a classification . 1 to 5 out of 5 , with 5 being the hardest , followed by length in km , time in hours and price in Euro . On the dates page you can make reservations but if you want a tour from them , you can also just phone or e-mail , their FAQ page mentions that the reservation page is sometimes hard to work . Wadlopen is walking over the sand when the sea is out in the shallow areas . But usually there are stretches which are mud and cannels of water you have to wade through . The time is restricted due to the tide and the distances are quite big . You need to go with a guide and a good guide as well as there have been disasters and needed rescues are quite common . As in a couple of times each year , even with the best guides . The good ones all have a way to contact a boat to come out and get you to safety . If you are serious about trying it , send a mail to one of the companies offering tours , all businesses in the Netherlands will be able to communicate in English , certainly by mail . When you call , speak slow and clear , start with a couple of sentences that allow for yes/no answers or common niceties , so they can get into speaking English before having to think about difficult things . On the page shoes and clothing you will see a photo of people in canvas trainers , those are the kind of shoes most appropriate . Buy cheap ones and throw them out when done , they will be very dirty . Shorts but warm tops and extra layers , as it will almost always be cold but long trousers will just get wet and make you misserable . And needed is a rain and wind proof jacket . Bring extra clean clothing to change into when done with the walking . Wadlopen as photographed by GerardM on 5 March 2004 <URL> Some of the tours are returning to the starting point , others go out to one of the islands and the return will be by ferry , or you can walk from the island to the main land in some cases . You should ask whether to bring food , as it does depend on the time of the tour , but the ones I checked out did not provide food and they mention that you are expected to want to eat more than usual , as it is hard and cold work . I have never done any ' wadlopen ' but I have heard from people who have done it that it is an incredible experience . Hard , wet , cold , but something you will not forget lightly .
The best advice you can get is from the guy that work late night in your hotel . Ask for things that he/she does in their free hours . Why late night ? Usually they have some concierge services that work only during the day and try to give you the standard advices . I also got some very good deals asking taxi drivers but the better ones were from bus drivers ! So , the advice is : ask someone local . Try something like : " what would you do if you want to ... "
end question
start question
Where in Europe can I pay to fire guns or have military experience ?
I will be travelling around many Western European countries which I expect to not have these sorts of experiences . Actually , <URL> .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
Disclaimer : This isnt specifically in Kyoto . It 's about 1h by train/car from Kyoto Station . The <URL> could be what you 're looking for . It 's located in Kobe , near Osaka . The museum features LOTS of information and displays on how woodworking and carpentry evolved from prehistoric Japan all the way to modern days . The building is gorgeous and there are plenty of examples of the different techniques demonstrated . You can also borrow a very thorough audio guide that completes the visit very nicely ( Which I highly recommend you do ) . A bonus point is that , while in Kobe , you can eat some amazing Kobe Beef !
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
Actually if you google <URL> you will come up with a few options including : <URL> in Ashburn , VA <URL> in Chantilly , VA <URL> in Rockville , MD and the list goes on . The way that rentals work in most places that I 've looked at is that you rent a gun but you have to buy the ammo at the range . Most only require that you have a current valid government issued ID but not the restriction on that it has to be a state or federal government of the United States .
It appears <URL> . All of this answer will be based on the info there but since you seemed not satisfied with it you should come back here after your trip and give an answer based on your personal experience . As reported in the forum post , there are ATMs in Beyneu so you can always withdraw some tenge . I also see <URL> so you might also be able to exchange if you prefer . <URL> . It says ATM 's ( bankomat in Russian ) are found on every major street in big cities . You can withdraw money with Visa , Mastercard or Maestro . The occasional refusal of your card is to be expected , but most ATM 's accept a wide range of foreign bank cards . In smaller towns , there probably will not be an ATM available for cash withdrawal . I 'm not sure if Beyneu qualifies as a big city so that one is up for judgement , but it also says : Currency exchange in Kazakhstan can be found on every street corner . Rates are competitive , once you leave the airport or train station . Main currencies that are traded with tenge are US dollar , Euro , British pound , Russian rouble , Kyrgyz som and Chinese yuan . so you will find some way of getting enough tenge I 'm pretty sure . If not , as pointed out in the forum , you should be able to pay your ride with dollars at a less advantageous price .
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
G Adventures provide a lot of South American tours . They also monitor any safety updates in that region for their travellers . Here 's a timeline of updates and safety info within the last few months : <URL>
What is your home country and bank ? No , no details needed , this is not a scam attempt :-) . Knowing may help answers . I 'd expect the following to be the best solution if the service is available : In the past and almost certainly still you can send items to a Post Office to be held pending your collection . You would definitely want to check with Australia Post to see if this service is available and , if so , what mailing and physical office addresses are available for this service . As the letter would still be in the mailing system until collected the security would be good . Alternatively , if you know anyone in Australia they could act as a relay . My daughter is a hospital doctor in Canberra . She may be happy to act as a mail relay point . I imagine that you can get same day courier services from Canberra to Melbourne and pick up at a courier office . Obviously you 'd need some more details before you trusted you card to that arrangement :-) . If all else fails contact me offlist and we can discuss . My email address is on my profile page if required . ( I 'm in NZ ) .
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
Tattoos or <URL> as they are called in Japanese were criminalized in the beginning of the Meiji period ( some time after 1868 ) as a way to make a good impression on the west . ( A bit ironic in this case ... ) It was legalized again after the war in 1948 but still retains its image of criminality . For many years , traditional Japanese tattoos were associated with the yakuza , Japan 's notorious mafia , and many businesses in Japan ( such as public baths , fitness centers and hot springs ) still ban customers with tattoos . ( from wikipedias <URL> article )
If you do a search with the terms sushi com chocolate ( sushi with chocolate ) you will find plenty of recepies . Nevertheless , it 's certainly not a trend , I have ate sweet sushi before but I had never heard of norimaki with chocolate before . It 's really common to find sweet temakis ( " sweet kones " ) for dessert , I would n't be surprised to find one with chocolate , but they certainly do n't have fish on them :) They are not temaki in my opinion , as they are normally not rolled in nori . It depends on where you are , but I 'd search for temaki doce ( sweet temaki ) , along with the name of the city where you are to find places to eat .
AA reserve seats in coach for their frequent flyers . They provide most , but not necessarily all of these for payment if the passenger does not qualify by status . These are the preferential seats such as aisle seats near to the front , main cabin extra seats or exit row seats . All the seats available for free are no longer available and you must pay if you wish to select a seat . If you do not wish to pay for a seat , AA will start providing these seats for free as the flight approaches , or at the gate , including the MCE seats with extra legroom . It 's unlikely that you will be sat next to your partner however . If the flight ends up oversold , AA is required to seek volunteers for voluntary denied boarding ( VDB ) compensation prior to selecting passengers for involuntary denied boarding ( IDB ) . These passengers will be compensated too . The answer to your question is the risk you will not have a seat is low if you do n't pay now . Make sure you check in as soon as possible as that is one of the selection criteria for IDB .
In Germany , the Zoos of <URL> and <URL> have Dolphin exhibits/shows ( another one in [ Münster ] will be shut down this fall ) . The one in Nürnberg is probably closest to you and also seems to be the largest . But note that there 's considerable controversity about whether keeping Dolphins in indoor pools constitutes animal abuse , given that even the largest pools are tiny in comparison with their natural movement habits .
I will be travelling around many Western European countries which I expect to not have these sorts of experiences . Actually , <URL> .
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
No , you ca n't use a driving license , because what is required is not just a proof of identity but a proof of nationality . You could have a driving license if you were a British resident , and it would n't give the right to enter Switzerland without a visa . Generally speaking , you need a national identity card or a passport . You can consult the <URL> . Assuming that you 're a British citizen , you need a passport ( or a seaman 's book ) . A British passport without British citizenship also lets you in without a visa , for stays up to 90 days . Beware that British Identity Cards containing under the heading " nationality " the entry " British Citizen " ( B.C. ) are not valid for entry into Switzerland anymore .
I just found a Tesla Model S ( " or similar " , which is what they put on every car , but they say they 'll contact you to confirm after you book ) from Sixt searching for a pickup from Frankfurt Airport ( I randomly used 06/20/2016 -06 / 22/2016 ) for a mere US$ 360.71 / day . So they appear to have at least one for rent . Whether it 's available under the exact terms you want is something you might need to contact them about .
end question
start question
Are there any direct buses between Dundee and Edinburgh Airport ?
According to the website <URL> there are no direct buses between Edinbugh Airport - Dundee and vice-versa . Example : 16/5/2013 Depart Edinburgh Airport approximately 9.00 am gives you three options . if you choose the 9.30 am this will be your route , arriving at Dundee Bus Station at 11.32 am If you then depart Dundee on 18/5/2013 at approximately 4.00 pm you are given the following options : If you use the 3.40 pm departure your route will be as following arriving at Edinburgh Aiport at around 5.24 pm Obviously this is an example , as I do n't have the specifics of your journey , but no there are no direct buses for your specified route .
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
If you 're into your hiking into a big way , then Crianlarich is a good base for a few days . It 's in the Highlands about 2 hours by train from Glasgow , so just shy of 3 from Edinburgh ( so only slightly out of your ideal range ... ) There 's a <URL> there , which provides a great and cheap base for exploring the area . It 's round the corner from the <URL> which does swisher rooms if that 's more your thing . The hotel also does a decent priced meal , has a stunning selection of whisky , and is a great place to relax post walking ! You 've about a dozen <URL> walkable from there , and it 's on the <URL> for a slightly less mountainous set of walks . You have a number of buses and trains from there , so you can easily arrange a walk where you start or end somewhere else . The scenery around there is stunning too . It 's not a " big " place , but it 's big enough if you mostly want to walk , and it 's very well connected transport wise ( by highland standards anyway ! ) .
<URL> and <URL> offer Free Wi-Fi , but no electric socket . As far as I know berlinlinienbus does n't offer Wi-Fi nor electric socket . Eurolines offers Wi-Fi and electric socket in the <URL>
As Έρικ Κωνσταντόπουλος , I doubt that Irrawaddy or Central region have bungee-jumping capabilities , but not based on an undated article that mentions " it may just be a matter of time " . In my case I doubt anywhere in Myanmar yet offers bungee jumping on a regular basis . From the same site as that article ( <URL> ) the question is posed : Who is going to be the first to take a leap in Myanmar ? In this case the article is dated , 26 Mar 2013 . On the Myanmar forum <URL> Maibpenrai , showing as from Bangkok/Yangon , posted shortly after the above ( 15 June 2013 - 07:57 ) : It seems to be than Bungee Jumping in Myanmar is not available yet Thereafter it is a matter of assumptions and deductions . The Burmese do not have a cultural heritage such as Vanuatu has for <URL> and the introduction of bungee jumping there can be expected to relate specifically to the expansion of tourism . ( In <URL> tourist visits numbered only 1.3 M. ) For that advertising can be expected nowadays and this OP 's failure to find what he was looking for can be taken to indicate that such does not exist ( yet ) . The signs are however that it will do before very long , so should be worth monitoring the situation .
By train it 's 21 minutes and currently costs $ 7.70 ( one way ) . You can check the time tables , and even buy tickets online on <URL> . You can also directly choose option when buying Eurostar ticket , which seems to be $ 7.50 surcharge ( for one way ) . How it works : Travelling to other Belgian stations The fares on this page all include travel from Brussels-Midi/Zuid to any Belgian station . That means you can use your Eurostar ticket to travel on any domestic Belgian service * within 24 hours of arriving at Brussels-Midi/Zuid . Please note Any Belgian station tickets can only be booked more than 48 hours prior to travel to allow for printing at home . Otherwise they will only be available for collection from Brussels station . * excludes Thalys and ICE services . Thalys and ICE are international services , not really relevant when going to the Brussels airport .
From the <URL> , you 'll discover that there 's a special shuttle bus between the airport . It 's Bus A , and the price is included in the cost of the train ticket if you buy a ticket to/from the airport . It takes about 20 minutes from the airport to the station at Charleroi . There are special train tickets for travel to/from Charleroi Airport . If you go to the <URL> and search from to , then pick from the ticket type dropdown , you 'll see the prices . Currently , it 's $ 14,40 one way . You can read more about the combined bus + train tickets for Charleroi <URL> . Tickets can be bought online , or at the airport , should be the same price .
Yes , there are direct trains but I would not trust voyages-sncf . com to book train journeys entirely outside France ( or for anything else actually ) . <URL> will show you all the trains and should allow you to buy a ticket online . Another option to book the tickets would be <URL> ( I find the site nicer and easier to use than either SNCF or NMBS/SNCB but they only offer postal tickets for this journey so that 's not very convenient ) . Finally , you can buy a ticket on the day of travel , at the airport . Apart from international services ( especially Thalys ) and unlike in France , Germany or the UK , there is no advance booking discounts or seat reservations on trains in Belgium so little downside to buying the tickets at the last minute , except the need to plan some time for it . Besides , your train is little more than a suburban train , Belgium is quite small and Antwerpen is a bit over 30 min away from the airport . Note that , depending on the site/language , the airport station is also called " Bruxelles Nat . Aéroport " or " Brussel Nationaal Luchthaven " .
Get the bus . Edinburgh 's trams are a local disaster story . Given contracting disputes , failed planning and key individuals resigning ( see this <URL> for more info ) , Edinburgh council has spent 7 years and # 1 billion building a single tram line that is both slower and more expensive than the existing airport bus service . If you get the express " airport bus " ( # 100 ) it costs # 4 and takes about 30 minutes to the city centre ( Princes Street ) . If you get the tram , it costs # 5 and takes about 40 minutes . There are other buses ( e.g. # 35 ) from central locations to the airport - it would depend on exactly where you have to go . These cost # 1.50 but are a lot slower . It 's possible you accidentally took one of these , because I ca n't think of any other way the bus would have been slower than the tram . As for refunds , I would recommend either asking the member of tram staff who told you to get the bus whether your ticket would be valid , or simply going back to the ticket office where you bought the ticket and demanding a refund there . The tram ticket you got is not normally valid on the bus , and I doubt the bus driver himself would be authorised to change that . I suspect you were probably just lucky that you got a kindly driver that waived your fare . Incidentally , since the trams charge # 1.50 for " city zone " travel and " city zone " is defined as all stops except the airport , you could get a normal ( not express ) bus to the next tram stop , which would only cost you # 3 in total ( # 1.50 for the bus to the next tram stop and then # 1.50 for the tram ride ) , rather than # 5 . Sources : * <URL> * <URL> * Personal knowledge of the city
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
From the <URL> : Transit passengers who do not clear customs will not have access to any ATM in Incheon Airport . The only ATMs at Incheon airport are outside the sacred circle of customs . So if you need cash when you land at Incheon , you have to clear customs . There are two currency exchanges on the transit side that will exchange money into Korean won , as well as most stores/restaurants accepting US dollars and some other currencies .
Although in everyday usage they are interchangeable , they refer to two entirely different concepts : direct flight denotes any routing between two points with a single flight number , with one or more stops along the way . For example , United 803 flies IAD-BKK via NRT . nonstop flight denotes air travel between two points with no scheduled intermediate stops . For example , United 645 is JFK-SFO with no stops . In the past , a direct flight usually involved a single aircraft making multiple stops , in contrast to a connecting flight , in which you would leave one flight for another on a different aircraft . In the present , however , any such distinction is gone . United 951 ostensibly operates BRU-IAD-ORD , but you will not be on the same aircraft -- there will be a " change of gauge " at IAD just as if it were an ordinary connecting flight . Direct flights are tricky for frequent flyers . For one , most airlines compute your frequent flyer mileage based on distinct flight numbers , not on distinct flight segments . For flying BRU-IAD-ORD , you 'd expect to be awarded 3893 miles for BRU-IAD and another 589 for IAD-ORD for a total of 4482 ; however , if you fly " direct " on UA951 , you will receive only 4160 , as if you had taken the nonstop . Another problem is in clearing upgrades . The BRU-IAD segment may have an upgrade available , whereas the IAD-ORD segment is sold out ; however , you will not be given the upgrade because space must be available on the entire BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary . If you had flown the identical BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary but with two different flight numbers , you would have received the full mileage as well as the transatlantic upgrade . Why do airlines continue to market direct flights ? For the same reason they market codeshares : to make it seem as if they have service where they do not . Because such flights used to be on a single aircraft , the reservations systems weighted them as more preferable : request flights between two cities and they would return nonstops at the top , then direct , then connections . Since travel agents tended to pick flights that appear at the top of results , an airline offering a direct flight would likely get more sales than another which offered the identical itinerary as a connecting flight .
There are several beer spas in Czech and a couple in Prague . It 's an " interesting " experience In Prague , there are : <URL> ( around 2500 CZK , 90-100 Euros ) Pivní Lázně BBB Tábor ( Source : <URL> ) For more traditional Spa/Massage : <URL> ( around 3000-4000 CZK , pretty expensive stuff ) <URL> ( around 2500-3000 CZK )
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
As you can see on <URL> , Japanese ferries are operated by different companies ( every color is a different one ) . This is by the way similar to the Japanese railway and subway system . The difference from the Subway system however is that people rarely travel over several ferry routes . To make a cross-company ferry ticket is quite difficult , and due to the little usage , this was never done . So , in short , there is no such general pass for ferries .
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
There is no convenient midpoint stop , I think it 's better to just bear the long road journey ( I hear it 's better in 2012 than few years ago ) . <URL> has a huge buddhist temple ( allegedly the largest in the world ) , an old market and a decent river tour . Worth a visit , technically on the way , but rather close to Bangkok ( 1-2h ) . <URL> is a seedy border town which may appeal if you 're into casinos and gambling ( and other activities which go along with that ) . Most people are happy to leave it behind after finding a bus or taxi onward . <URL> is tiny , and while you could probably find lodging there in a bind , does n't seem too interesting .
Red Arrow has <URL> , but only one round trip , and only on Tuesdays . The Red Arrow Connector leaves Red Deer iHotel at 6:00 pm , after picking up at several other points in town , and reaches Rocky Mountain House at 7:15 pm . The trip to Red Deer leaves Rocky Mountain House at 6:05 am and arrives at iHotel at 7:20 am , afterward stopping at several other points in Red Deer . iHotel is the primary transfer point for buses going to and from Calgary and Edmonton . The buses stop in the west parking lot behind the hotel ; you will see a Red Arrow sign . Based on the <URL> , you should not have a very long wait to change buses , traveling in either direction . Red Arrow canceled its Rocky Mountain House service in June 2015 . As of now , there seems to be no public transit between these two towns at all . Of course , the town nearest to where you 're really going is <URL> , and this town has no public transit services at all . From my searching , I also was unable to find any shuttle services , as are common in the U.S. . The <URL> might know of such services ; it may be worth giving them a call and asking if they know of anyone who can arrange a ride for you from Rocky Mountain House or Red Deer .
From what it appears having looked on travel comparison sites for available flights there are no direct flights between Moscow &amp; Tenerife . You did n't mention any particular date of travel so I chose a week departing 3rd April , returning 10th April 2013 . Sample results from the comparison site kayak.co.uk indicate flights with a stop over in either Barcelona or Madrid ( note the duration of travel ) . Tenerife being a part of the Canary Islands are located directly west of Morocco , and are far from mainland spain . I thinking getting on any type of sea faring vessel from Spain to Tenerife is not ideal ( unless you were planning a cruise ) . If I were you , I am aware that EasyJet recently started flying between London Gatwick &amp; Moscow , and also fly from London Gatwick to Tenerife ( flying time approximately 4 hours ) . I would strongly suggest consulting them , as an alternative : <URL> Like I say you have n't mentioned date of travel , prices may vary considerably if it were June instead of April ( as I gave in the example above ) .
end question
start question
How to go boating in the Ganges ?
Total duration : 3 to 3.5 hours When : All days of the week , starting at dawn . Start time varies depending on weather , so check with us Start Place : Dasashwamedh Ghat , by the Ganga Seva Nidhi office End Place : Phool Mandi Cost : Rs 2000 per person for 2 persons Rs 1500 per person for 3-4 persons Rs 1000 per person for 5-6 persons Rs 800 per person for 7-8 persons Our maximum group size is usually not more than 6-8 people . Payment is by cash on the day of the tour Includes : Knowledgeable English-speaking guide , boat ride , illustrated handouts , personalised walk , all taxes If you need pickup/drop from your hotel by car , please add Rs 1000 . You could find all aditional information about boating <URL>
Many pillows in hotels are decorative . You certainly do n't need to keep them all there . Generally you just put them to the side / on a chair / on the floor until you make the bed in the morning . It may also be easier if you tend to sleep in the fetal position , rather than stretched out , but it 's up to you to find the position that suits you best .
It seems that it depends if your friend want to get close to the mountain itself . It may be possible to get there overday from Nairobi to get som distant glimpses but it does not seem viable to go back and forth and do some climbing . This is also confirmed by a <URL> . There are several companies that arrange trips to the mount kenya and they should be easy to find with the appropriate google searches . I have only seen 3-day trips and longer when quickly browsing through some of the sites . The mount is only some 150 kilometres from Nairobi but keep in mind that the road conditions may not be the best . <URL>
According to <URL> , the FAQ says no : I 'm traveling with my family ; can they also use the TSA Pre ✓ ® lane ? Family members ages 12 and under traveling with an eligible parent or guardian with a TSA Pre ✓ ® indicator on their boarding pass can participate in expedited screening . Family members 13 and older must go through standard security lanes or should apply for a DHS trusted traveler program . I know your question is n't about family , but ' travel companions ' , but seeing as they do n't even allow family members over 13 to join you on your KTN , it can safely be assumed by a reasonable person ( and yes , I know we 're talking TSA here , irony noted ) that a non-family member would also not be eligible to travel under your KTN .
I traveled all the way through the USA from the east coast to the west coast , by car and RV . I thought about getting a UMTS / LTE stick for my Notebook , too . But there really was n't any need for this . You can get FREE WIFI almost everywhere : Coffee Shops ( Starbucks , etc. ) Fast food Restaurants ( Pizza Hut , McDonalds , KFC , etc. ) Camp grounds Hotels Shops / Malls Libraries In rare cases you get WIFI access even here : Cinemas Grocery Stores Gas Stations I can also tell you , that the UMTS internet coverage is n't that good when you plan to visit national parks or other nature reserves . Whilst driving through the less populated middle of the USA there are times when you even do n't get your cell phone working -- > NO Service ! So if you really feel the need for uninterupted internet access , you should carefully check the coverage of your Mobile-ISP
There are none left after the ones in Kai Tak and Diamond Coast closed in Kong Kong . you will have to go to China or Macao . In <URL> there is one the Cotai strip behind the golf court . I have however never been there and could not find an email/website either . There are two in Zuhai : The <URL> ( used by the HK GoCart club ) and a kart track on the <URL> , with their own <URL> . You might want to ask the HK club for further info : <URL> Chances are however , that you will not get very far with English on either of them .
The problem with arranging a group trip involving anyone other than close friends is that you ( as the organiser ) can easily be left out of pocket or worse if things go wrong ; people can and will cancel at the last minute , pull out without telling you , miss their flights , trash their rooms etc. leaving you with the liability . That 's why I 'd recommend using a UK-based ( and ATOL protected ) package tour company to take care of flights , transfers and accommodation , letting you focus on your studies . They 'll be able to take payment directly from the other participants , meaning you 're in no danger of paying for someone else 's holiday . If you start looking now at package trips for winter 2013-14 you 'll be able to get an idea of prices . Start by looking on the websites but do n't be afraid to call up in search of a good deal ; if you can bring 15-30 people along they 'll love to talk to you ! Things to consider are : Transport - the larger tour companies will organise flights and coach transfer to the resort Accommodation - typically twin/double rooms ; you 'll want chalet/hotel style close to the slopes and the bars Food - getting catered accommodation ( breakfast/dinner ) means not having to deal with 30 people 's different requirements Resort - pick somewhere large that can cater for everyone from beginner to expert skiers . Large resorts also tend to have better ( or at least more varied ) apres ski and nightlife . A tour company will also be able to get you good deals on lift pass , equipment hire and lessons without tying everyone into the same option - you 'll have people who want to hire expensive kit , or bring their own . Assuming you 're travelling during the university holidays , you 'll be competing against other students for accommodation , so the earlier you book the better . You 're unlikely to be able to get commitments during the summer vacation , so aim to get the booking confirmed during the first two weeks of September - any later than that and resorts will fill up fast for the Christmas/New Year holiday , although you have a bit more leeway if you 're planning an Easter trip .
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
I have encountered this practice in the past as well . Once I actually talked to them about the reason for it . In that particular hotel , this was encouraged , but not required . They explained that there were two reasons ( for that particular hotel ) : It 's much easier for them to know when the guests are out , so they can go and clean the room . They have had cases when the maid would knock on the door , receive no answer , and open the door with her own key -- just to find the guest still in the room , often in a state rather not expecting anyone to come in ( this did include on a few occasions walking on people having sex ) Minimise the risk of the key being lost/stolen . This reduces the cost in the long run - both in term of the keys/locks needing replacing , but also the liability . In that hotel , the keys were quite distinctive , clearly showing the hotel name and the room number on the key . If a key is lost , whoever finds it can just come in to the hotel , go to the room and steal something - and the guests would hold the hotel liable for the stolen property . The sign at the reception actually stated that the hotel would bear no responsibility for guests ' property left in the room unless the key was handed to the reception upon leaving the hotel .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
Recently while planning my trip to Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam , I did a little research : I am not sure about direct buses from Siem Reap . However , Stueng Traeng is about 5 hours . From there , you can get a mini bus connection to Pakse . This takes about another 5 hours . From Pakse it is an overnight sleeper to Vientiane . If you have time , it is advisable to stop over either at ST or take a slight detour to Kratie . Stay overnight here , and then get a bus to Pakse ( an extra 2 hours ) . I also stumbled upon this website : <URL> , could be useful you , though the buses seem to start from Phnom Penh . You might be able to get more information from them . Another post I saw was about this couple who did a trip to Vientiane from Siem Reap via Thailand : <URL> . I finally dropped Laos from my itinerary , so can not advice you from personal experience though .
No . The highest mountain in Yemen ( and the entire Arab peninsula ) is <URL> , and is 3666 metre high . Citing Wikipedia : Although the summit is not snow-capped like its counterparts in northern Lebanon and Syria , there have been reports of snow on the peak and frost in the winter is there daily . In other words , even at the highest point in Yemen snow is not ubiquitous . Therefore , there is no outdoor snow-skiing tourist industry in Yemen .
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
There 's nothing wrong with going into Jordan on an Israeli passport . I know ( second/third-hand ) people who have done so . Israel and Jordan currently have full diplomatic ties . Chances are , if you try and hide things , they 'll get more suspicious . Several years ago , we traveled US-England-Turkey on American passports , and from Turkey to Israel ( also on the American passport ) , intending to use the Israeli passport only to get in/out of Israel . In Turkey , however , they did ask to see our Israeli passports . So you see , better to be totally upfront and use the same passport in both places ( unless you have a good reason not to , such as when entering/leaving the passport 's country ) .
A car is definitely a must have to visit the Loire valley . You have independence , and you can find some beautiful castles and view the country . But you can go to some castles by train from Tours . Here are some examples : Chenonceaux : you can take the train from tours to Chenonceaux and walk to the castle . It can be beautiful because you have to cross the French garden . Blois : can be reached by <URL> ( = regional train ) Chambord : can be reached from Blois For biking , you could visit <URL> or see <URL> . The map is good but only available in French .
It is possible to do a few sightseeing during that amount of time . Qutub Minar is the nearest attraction from Delhi Airport ( opening hours 7AM -- 5PM ) . You can reach there in a 50-60 minutes cab ride ( there is no direct Metro line ) . You can also also visit India Gate . Along with India Gate you can cover Parliament House , Rashtrapati Bhavan , and Connaught Place . Easiest way to reach this places will be to take <URL> ( On the Airport Express line to New Delhi Station , then on Yellow line to Central Secretariat station ) . I would suggest you start your sightseeing in Connaught Place ( reach by metro at Rajiv Chowk station , two station before Central Secretariat ) , then take a cab/auto to India Gate ( Parliament House and Rashtrapati Bhavan are near to India Gate ) , then take Metro to Qutub Minar ( Qutub Minar Station at Yellow line ) , then take a cab ride back to Airport .
My boyfriend and I ( female ) were able to rent a private room at the Blue Baths in September ' 10 . Okay , here 's the Long Answer : At any one of the baths , it is possible to rent a private room , exclusive of massage and kisa ( skin scrub ) . From my personal experience , The Royal Baths have the single best/nicest room ( gorgeous blue paneled " dressing room " with sofas plus separate bathroom ) , but it costs a full 60 lari and is suitable for a much larger party than just 2 . Their " next tier down " ( 40-50 lari rooms ) are n't comparable to similarly priced rooms in other baths . I imagine 3-4 people could fit in one of these . The Blue Baths - 50 lari gets a gorgeous large room ( again with a separate dressing room/lounge area ) ; 25 lari ( what I paid with the boyfriend ) gets a tiny , dingy , slightly dirty-seeming room ( with ostensible " dressing area " but no sofas , etc ) so it 's worth paying more . The Baths Halfway Up Grishashvili St ( sorry , not sure of the name . Right where the Bohemia sign is ) offer a perfectly pleasant , if not visually stunning , room for 25 lari : this is possibly the best value-for-money bath in Tbilisi . Massages and skin scrubs cost extra ; the going rate seems to be 10 lari per service per person ( in all baths ) . The attendant will knock and enter - be aware that there is no expectation of modesty on either side : often the attendant will be wearing nothing but a bikini bottom regardless of gender ( note that this is not sexualized ; in my case , the woman was an older , 60-something professional who just did n't want to get her kit wet . However , it does seem that prostitutes do use the baths as a front ( with the tacit acceptance if not cooperation of the workers ) , so mixed groups and/or groups of men seeking massages should be extra clear that this is NOT what is going on . Tea can generally be brought to the rooms by attendants for 5-10 lari .
I 'm assuming you do n't want to drive ( that 's still an option though ) but you have the choice between flying or taking the train . According to <URL> Fly Both cities have airports and both Indonesian Airlines and Air China have a service between the two , though the airport in Chita is a little far from the center of town . <URL> Train There 's a train that leaves twice a week to China from Chita 2 station which is closer to the city than the airport . There 's also a night train which interestingly enough seems to take less time , at least according to the website . It 's operated by Russian railways <URL> <URL>
Indeed , the French transportation network is organised very centrally around Paris . Looking at the map of the recent ( it might change rapidly ) <URL> ( some website to book buses ) and the train network maps provided by the SNCF <URL> and <URL> , it looks clear that most trains and buses are centered around Paris ( you might find a connection in Tours or Le Mans ) so in any case you will have to connect . Using <URL> and avoiding Paris is possible but probably longer and less convenient , going through Nantes . An alternative would be ride sharing . <URL> is the most popular service . A search for this weekend shows few direct Rennes-Poitiers trips though . Also know that ride share trips tend to appear only about 2 weeks before the date of travel , so if you want to secure a trip early , this might not be your best option . Most French people now compare trains , buses and ride sharing options ( and planes for the longer distances ) when travelling across the country .
end question
start question
Which visa will I be entering under ?
Not being a lawyer and being myself a citizen from a Schengen and EU member state , I do n't have any direct experience with this kind of issues so that everything I will say should be taken with a grain of salt . Still , I am wondering if it makes any difference in practice ( and , incidentally , how frequently this could really happen ) . It seems that a long stay visa from one of the member states of the Schengen agreement ( which is not a Schengen visa as the Schengen agreement only covers short stays and each member state remains mostly free to establish rules governing long stay visas as they see fit ) gives you the same rights , in other member states , as a " uniform visa " ( i.e. multiple entries in the Schengen area for a maximum of 90 days stay in any half-year ) . This <URL> seems to support this interpretation . According to this webpage , what you have to do to be able to enter France again after 5 months is to go back to the country that delivered the long stay visa ( i.e. Germany in your example ) , just as an " uniform visa " would require you to go back to a non-Schengen country to avoid using up your 90 days quota . One thing I do n't know is how you can go about documenting the fact that you did leave France if you travel by road instead of taking a connecting flight since there are no border controls between France and Germany . That 's the main practical difference with the uniform visa situation as external Schengen borders are guarded and you would get an exit stamp on your passport but the 90 days rule applies in both cases . ( You mentioned France as an example and I looked it up in French but I believe those rules were defined in some EU directives so they should apply for other Schengen countries as well . ) Most importantly , a long stay visa from Germany ( or any other Schengen country ) does not entitle you to stay in France ( or any other Schengen country ) for as long as you wish ( i.e. Germany can not deliver long stay visas for France or vice versa ) so that in both cases you are really using your right to make a short stay in France . Only after 5 years of residence in Germany , will you in fact be entitled to a long stay visa in France ( actually a " titre de séjour " , this is not a visa but a separate document ) but this has nothing to do with Schengen , this is a EU rule that does not apply to non-EU Schengen countries ( and also not to the UK , Ireland and Denmark , despite their being EU members because they opted out , see <URL> ) . It probably also applies to Switzerland via their bilateral agreements with the EU but I am not quite sure . I suspect that having this right recognized might not always be trivial in practice . Additionally , I understand that there are complex rules regarding airside transit . Depending on your nationality , you might be entitled to visa-free transit in international airports of some or all Schengen area countries , so technically needing a visa to stay in the Schengen area does not automatically imply requiring a visa in your scenario .
According to the <URL> in your question , you do seem to <URL> of a B-1 visa : If you apply for a B-1 / B-2 visa , you must demonstrate to a consular officer that you qualify for a U.S. visa in accordance with the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act ( INA ) . Section 214 ( b ) of the INA presumes that every B-1 / B-2 applicant is an intending immigrant . You must overcome this legal presumption by showing : That the purpose of your trip to the United States is for a temporary visit , such as business , pleasure , or medical treatment That you plan to remain in the United States for a specific , limited period of time Evidence of funds to cover your expenses while in the United States That you have a residence outside the United States , as well as other binding social or economic ties , that will ensure your return abroad at the end of your visit You may need a letter from the company that you are interviewing with , stating that they have invited you to their office for a professional matter . You will also ( per the second item on the list above ) be required to show your return ticket to Russia to prove that your stay in the US is specific and limited . I suggest talking to whoever scheduled your interview to see if they have experience with international candidates ( many companies can help their job candidates figure out what the necessary paperwork is ) , and keep trying to get in touch with the US embassy near you . It seems pretty clear that B-1 is the type of visa you need , but it 's always best to make sure with the US government directly .
The question often arises after a refusal , and the standard response to your question when it comes from ' official ' sources is ' ... no , each application is considered independently and decided solely upon its merit ... ' . In more practical terms , it will inevitably be taken into account and thus may affect the outcome of future applications OF THE SAME TYPE . For applications of a different type , a visitor visa or spouse visa for example , their grounds may be irrelevant . Those types of visas do not require serious intent to pursue a course of study and hence your credibility can not be assailed . Based upon what you wrote , the German official , however captious it may seem , identified a serious weakness in your application and refused you on credibility . It means that you did not see this opportunity for them to refuse and fortify your application with an explanation along the lines of ' ... I will not complete the MBA program in Bangladesh because ... ' possibly including a recommendation from your faculty adviser that you pursue a degree in Germany . You can also increase the chances of success by a history of performance . That sort of thing is obtained by travelling to lots of countries that require visas . You can also point to significant changes in circumstances in the intervening time since your refusal . These two things work wonderfully in overcoming the stigma of a visa refusal . So the answer to your question : ' will it haunt me ? ' is yes , for applications as a student the refusal is relevant . And the corollary , ' will I be automatically refused ? ' is no . And the related question , ' does a refusal spill over to other types of applications ? ' , generally no . Another related question is ' ... can I get a new passport without a stamp in it and then not declare a prior refusal ? ... ' No , it 's a naive tactic that will blossom into a major credibility hit . The greatest chance for future success is to have your application managed by a licensed practitioner in Germany or in the country where you are applying . Avoid practitioners in Bangladesh generally unless they have documented correspondence status with a regulated EU law firm .
Yiddish is only spoken in very specific neighborhoods by very specific people . Usually you would identify them by being rather old ( middle-aged + ) and very religious ( you can see by their clothing ) . You would probably encounter them in Jerusalem and Bnei Brak . Some younger members of the certain Ashkenazi religious communities speak Yiddish , as well as some older secular Israelis ( mostly of Soviet/Polish descent ) . General population wo n't know it , and wo n't understand you . Bottom line is that Yiddish would be much more useful in Germany than in Israel .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
Short answer - the full JR pass for this trip , assuming a 14 day pass at 45100 yen , will cost pretty much the same as individual tickets and more specialised passes combined , excluding the pass ' ease of use . I 'd strongly recommend it , with maybe a couple of 1000 yen extra for subways and private railways you might come across . Long answer - Narita Airport Express return ticket + ' Suica ' charge card - 5500 yen 8 days travel around Tokyo - 770 yen ' Tokunai ' day pass + 230 yen contingency ( for subway or outer Tokyo ) - 1000 yen a day , 8000 yen total Tokyo - Osaka - 8510 yen Kansai ( Osaka/Nara/Kyoto region pass ) - 6000 yen for 4 days Osaka - Hiroshima - 5500 yen Hiroshima - Tokyo - 11340 yen Total = 44,850 yen Not much of a saving , given the additional hassle , but a saving nonetheless if you 're on a tight budget . Last thing - you can plan all sorts of trips via all means if transport in Japan at <URL> . Remember to exclude the ' Nozomi ' and ' Mizuho ' Shinkansen / bullet trains . They 're not included .
Generally , Austrian trains are quite punctual and on time . However , two minutes to change a train is really tight , and 4 minutes is n't really better . The train station in Schwarzach-St . Veit is quite small and this will enhance your chance that you will catch the train . On the other hand , the train station in Salzburg is quite big , so if you 're unlucky , there is a chance that you have to cross the whole train station to reach the appropriate track . When you check the connections at oebb.at , you can see , that this connection is proposed by ÖBB . This means , it is a guaranteed connection . And even , if you will miss your connection , there are plenty of other connections , and you would n't have to wait too long . So if I were in your situation , I would take this connection . But I would make sure to tell the train conductor that you have to catch the train in St.Veit . If your train is not really late , it might be possible that he can make sure that your connecting train waits for you . The same applies for your leg from St.Veit to Salzburg . ( Btw : It is not too bad to spend a night at the station in St. Veit as I experienced myself on my trip to Hungary some years ago :) )
Generally no , especially if you 're asking about academic studies : Is it permissible to enroll in school while in B-1 / B-2 status ? No , it is not . The regulations , at 8 CFR 214.2 ( b ) ( 7 ) , specifically prohibit study in the United States while in B-1 or B-2 status . Before enrolling in classes , individuals who are in B-1 or B-2 status must first acquire F-1 ( academic student ) or M-1 ( vocational student ) status . Enrolling in classes while in B-1 / B-2 status will result in a status violation . Individuals in B-1 or B-2 status , who have violated their nonimmigrant status by enrolling in classes , are not eligible to extend their B status or change to F-1 or M-1 status . These regulations provide no exceptions . <URL> However , allegedly there is a way kind of study legally provided that the course is short , limited to no more than 18 hours a week , and recreational . Requirements to Study on the B Visa Your course of study must be less than 18 hours per week . You must be studying for recreational purposes , not for academic credit . Evidence of sufficient funds to pay for all expected expenses for the duration of your visit . <URL>
Since you 're not using an agency , you 'll need a credit card with a big enough limit . In order to get the confirmation in order , they will need to get the charge approved and posted to your account . When you cancel , you 'll get a credit from them . Time it so that the debit and credit fall within the same billing cycle to avoid having to make a payment or accrue interest . Cancel well in advance of the flight , do n't check in , and use the same website you used to book the ticket . Booking with a Chinese carrier can be expensive . You 're getting the money back ( probably ) , but there will be a sizable charge ( could easily be several thousand RMB ) posted to your card . You may also incur foreign transaction or currency conversion fees from your card provider , quite possibly both coming and going , and these will not be refunded . <URL> will let you cancel full fare economy class tickets for free , as long as you do n't wait until the last minute to do it . I put together a sample ticket on their site from Ho Chi Minh to Guangzhou , leaving May 7 and returning May 8 . Full fare economy price : ~ 8500CNY ( ~ 1400USD ) . To see the details of their cancellation policy , you have to actually select an itinerary through the booking interface , because the refund policies vary by ticket type . 1.3 Rebooking Fee ( per change ) : free to change/rebook . Passengers will also need to pay the difference in fare ( if any ) . For tickets booked on Air China official website , rebooking can be done through the official website or 95583 . For tickets booked through other channels like Taobao flagship store , rebooking can be done through 95583 only . [ 95583 is a special service number you can call only via a Chinese mobile carrier . ] 1.6 Refund fees ( children 's ticket are subject to the same standard that apply to adult tickets ) : Free to refund . For refunds of partially used tickets , the refund amount will be calculated after deducting the fare and taxes corresponding to the flight segment ( s ) used . <URL> ( emphasis added ) : 10.3 Voluntary Refunds 10.3.1 If you are entitled to a refund of your Ticket for reasons other than those set out in 10.2 , the amount of the refund shall be : 10.3.1.1 if no portion of the Ticket has been used , an amount equal to the fare paid , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees ; 10.3.1.2 if a portion of the Ticket has been used , the refund will be an amount equal to the difference between the fare paid and the applicable fare for travel between the points for which the Ticket has been used , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees . 10.5 Right to Refuse Refund 10.5.1 We may refuse a refund where application is made after the expiry of the validity of the Ticket . 10.5.2 We may refuse a refund on a Ticket which has been presented to us , or to Government officials , as evidence of intention to depart from a country , unless you establish to our satisfaction that you have permission to remain in the country or that you will depart from that country by another carrier or another means of transport . That last bit is most likely intended for trying to cancel the return trip after arriving in China , but could technically be employed in your case . The Air China website is actually quite good as Chinese e-commerce platforms go . To cancel , <URL> , click the cancel tab , enter your information , and confirm through . If there 's some problem with the site , it should n't be an issue getting English language <URL> , but you may need to make an international call as I do n't know if the <URL> have English speaking reps. You can probably also cancel by logging in and viewing your details , but I ca n't verify that at this time . For a much lesser charge , ITA Matrix lists China Southern as the cheapest carrier at ~ 7m VND ( ~ 325 USD ) ( same dates and airports ) . <URL> does n't list anything terribly specific either way about cancellations , though it does sound relatively reasonable . After actually picking out an itinerary on their site , I was able to find this ( translation by Google ; no link as it 's JSP generated ) : Cancel Totally unused tickets Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 20.00 ( usd ) . Partially used ticket Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 40.00 ( usd ) . <URL> . They 're a reputable site for English language booking of transportation within China . The copyright notice at the bottom says 2010 , so I do n't know if the data is out of date . According to them , most of the carriers charge a 5 % cancellation fee assuming you cancel well in advance and are flying a full class economy fare . Discounted fares have much steeper cancellation penalties . I have not vetted most of this information , but it matches my experiences with Air China and China Eastern . I also do n't cancel flights much , so take that for what it 's worth .
The answer is yes , but you will have to speak a bit slower to most Brazilians , since they are not so used to listening to Portuguese with " Portuguese accent " . The other way around is easier because Portuguese people are used to listen to Brazilian accent in soap operas . In Angola , Mozambique , etc. differences also exist but the understanding might be a bit easier due to several cultural and historical reasons . There are also some minor differences in word spelling and meaning between country 's but if you learn Portuguese in any Portuguese speaking country it should be easy to overcome those differences . With the orthographic agreement recently settled these changes are fading away . There will still be differences in pronunciation and even specific words in each country , specially in colloquial language , but that 's the beauty of a language , it 's live and dynamic . There are actually very nice , lets call them , regional terms in each countrys : Portuguese / Angola : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> ( a very nice article , unfortunatly in Portuguese , where some minor gramar explanations and some idiomatic expressions ) These are just 2 examples . But I am sure you can find them also for Mozambique , S , Tome and Princepe , Guine Bissau , Cape Verde , India ( Goa ) , Timor and Macau .
Assuming you have all your required paperwork , the median waiting time is around 5 days at the <URL> office . Also , there 's no <URL> period before you can apply again , so you can re-apply right away . <URL>
I was in the Dolomites late April / early May 2003 . In the lower valleys , it 's essentially summer . Places like Bozen/Bolzano can be well over 20 ° C and reaching 30 ° C . If you 're fine hiking in the valleys , you 'll have no problem at all . Higher land will be covered in snow . You wo n't be able to hike there . Where the snow starts varies on the slope and the season . You might find patches of snow below 1600 metre , or you might find that you can hike well above 2000 metre . 2003 had an extremely warm spring , so snow was mostly gone . You should not expect any fresh snowfall in May . In summary , May is a good time to hike in the Dolomites , just do n't expect you can do the hikes you would do in summer . Details will vary from year to year .
Here 's the actual legal basis for visa-free travel : <URL> . It says you can stay for 72 hours , have to leave by the same port where you entered , and most importantly ( point # 6 ) it says you may only be located on the territory declared in the " official tourist program " filed by your cruise line with the Russian government . There may be some " official tourist programs " that include other cities like Moscow ( see e.g. the article at <URL> ) Some articles online imply that this requirement is just a formality . For example , this article ( <URL> ) implies you can go to other cities as long as you still pay for your St. Petersburg " official " hotel . However , the legality of this is very questionable . I would strongly recommend getting an actual Russian visa if you want to do any real exploring , especially given the current tense political situation .
The reason why airlines implement a policy of asking overweight people to get two seats is an air safety issue of whether they can be strapped in properly . The guideline used for this is whether a passenger can fit between the armrests . If a passenger requires two seats , then the policy differs from airline-to-airline if/what the passenger should be charged for it . On London to Sweden flights , British Airways flies Airbus A319/A320 -100 / 200 aircraft with <URL> ( " World Traveller Plus " ) . Premium economy is not as expensive as business class and if you have frequent flyer points , you may be able to get the upgrade cheap . <URL> depending on which flight you take with no difference in business class . <URL> as BA , and <URL> - the difference is that seat pitch ( distance ) is a good 4-5 " less than ' full-cost ' airlines . If that 's not a concern , buying two seats on a budget airline will be cheaper . EDIT : BA does not offer premium economy class for short-haul flights .
I am a business traveller from Britain , so I have never had to actually apply for a UK Visa , but my experience of similar situations says to me that you should n't refer to this as an interview but a ' meeting ' . During your visit you wo n't be being paid in the UK so you are n't a threat . Normally I arrive in a country as a ' general visitor ' because I am just ' meeting ' not ' working ' . You should also carry a printed version of the invitation to interview , contact details of the person you are visiting , exact details of where you are staying and preferably some means of showing that you are n't going to stay beyond . Part of proof is either showing that you have commitments back home ( e.g. already have a job , property lease or mortgage ) and that you have enough money to survive on ( have a recent bank statement showing you have money ) . Also make sure you have your return tickets and arrangements clear so they know you plan to return .
Yes , they will be allowed entry , and they will become a permanent resident immediately upon entry as usual . They just wo n't be mailed the physical plastic green card . However , their immigrant visa , endorsed upon entry , serves as a green card for one year , so they will still be able to prove their permanent resident status without the plastic card in the short term .
It 's likely to be about 10C at overnight . It might be a little cooler before dawn .
Based upon what you wrote , you should create an account at <URL> and use it to apply for a ' <URL> ' . Your husband does not qualify as a family sponsor , so you would fill out the form like in this image ... <URL> Should i book tickets before the visa will that make any difference on the decision ? It is a very bad idea to purchase tickets in advance of a visa application . It tells the decision-maker that you did not read <URL> and probably do not understand the rules . You also undergo the risk of cancelling tickets in the event your application is not successful or it takes a long time for them to reach a decision . Here 's a screen shot of the relevant <URL> ... <URL> And finally , in the remarks section of the form , you put down that you are visiting your husband and include his entry clearance number . If you have problems substantiating your marriage , then use ' partner ' everywhere . Your husband / ' partner ' should write a letter to the consulate supporting your visit ( naming you as wife or partner ) and you should include it with your application . They prefer wet signatures if possible . It 's ok to explain in the remarks section why you do not have a license as long as the explanation is reasonable .
Yes , she will need a new visa . From the <URL> : _ 25 . I got married and changed my name on my new passport , but my visa , which has not expired , is still on my old one . Do I need a new visa or can I just travel bringing along the two passports ? The name on the visa has to match with the one on the valid passport . In this case , it is advisable that you apply for a new visa in order to avoid problems with the Brazilian immigration authorities .
end question
start question
Does anyone make a single device that does GPS navigation and tracking ?
All Garmin devices I 've seen have the ability of constantly writing GPS track in background . I suppose , every touristic GPS has such functionality . Since GPS device is constantly tracking GPS signal , writing track is a low-cost operation . I 'm using my Garmin to navigate to the geocaches , and I 'm always registering GPS track in the same time . It 's a standard function nowadays . From what I know , there are clocks with GPS that can be used only for GPS tracking because they do n't display maps , but such devices are quite a niche , practical only for speed runners who want to save a bit on weight . Smartphones , on the other side , are relatively good for GPS navigation , but not for tracking , because GPS drains power from them very quickly . It 's practicable to activate GPS only to see how to go further and then shut up the maps app . But with tourist GPS , it 's not the case . They are designed to be turned on constantly , and they can work on one battery set quite a long ( my Etrex - over 24 hours ) . Consider buying the device that can work with rechargeable batteries like AA , you can take extra supplies , and in " emergency " case , buy some unrechargeable AAs in any newspaper shop .
You 'll find that it varies from host to host , and this is often indicated on their profile . Some are excited to meet new people , but ca n't actually host - so they 'll often just say they want to meet you in town for a coffee or similar . Others will have a bed and a spare room , and can be amazingly generous . However they do understand that you 're travelling , are on a budget , and while they may want to show you around the city , they 'll also ( usually ) be keen to help you enjoy your time while on your budget . Some just want a new person to talk to in the evenings , while others will take you around . I 'd suggest signing up , creating a profile , and then looking around at some of the profiles in the cities you wish to visit . It 'll give you an idea of what they 're looking for in a guest - often they 'll say in their profiles that perhaps they just wish to practise a new language , or they like meeting new people . As for bringing a gift or taking them to dinner - do whatever feels comfortable , and do n't force them into it either . Some cultures it 's very important to treat a person when they come to your city/house , while others it 's customary to bring something - that will depend on where you go , and is probably a topic for another question . ;)
Look at this : <URL> You could do it in stages . It 's really tough in places but the scenery is fantastic .
I see from the comments that you 're from Bangladesh . As there is a centre in Bangladesh where you can take the exam ( see <URL> ) with three sittings this year , it would seem likely you 've not convinced the visa official why you need to enter the UK . If what you 're actually taking is PACES , while you ca n't take that in Bangladesh there are other centres closer to you - you probably have n't justified why you ca n't take it in a closer location to you , such as India No need to look for any anti-Muslim policy - there just seems to be no good reason to travel to the UK from Bangladesh to take that exam .
No . It does not make you stateless . The United States government still exists and is recognized by foreign governments . The US government has only closed down some non-essential operations . None of that affects its relationship with other countries or US citizens ability to travel with valid US passports ( it may make it harder to get/renew a US passport though ) .
Code sharing and alliances are two different animals . Code Sharing is when airline A blocks seats on airline B 's route from city XYZ to city DEF . Then sells those seats with airline A 's flight number . Airline A may only contract for one code share route with airline B or it may contract for 50 routes . Airlines can code share with whomever they wish , irregardless of alliances . And they choose the routes they feel match their marketing goals and customer 's needs . Alliances revolve more around joint marketing of all members , plus convenice of connecting travelers with fellow alliance members . And while alliance members frequently code share with each other , the majority of flights are exclusive to the operating carrier .
While I do n't know any Disneyland except those in Tokyo , I 'm sure the answer depends highly on your preferences . However , just walking there , you can find that there are many , many adults , mostly early-20s and some 30s , who enjoy the Disneyland without children . In fact I can even assume that there are more adult friends groups than the family with children . Also note that in Japan a lot of women who are 20s enter the Disneyland by wearing high school uniform and enjoy the park just like children . Even those 30s wear the uniform , which is quite nauseous , and I have a pathological hatred for it . But it is generally accepted . As to the Sea for adults comment , it is true that it is considered that the Sea is better for adults . That is because there are more restaurants that serve the alcohol , and people who likes the Sea tend to prefer the scenery , night scene , restaurants , cafes , and just walking around there , to rides , attractions , mascots , and shops , which are better in the Land . However , if people say the Sea is better for adults , it usually means the Sea is better for a couple . In both cases , it is boring if you are alone , though I hear some people do enjoy it alone . I should also note that you can enjoy both in a day . They are pretty close to each other and you can just change the park by taking a monorail . If I remember it correctly , the park sells a ticket to enjoy both in a day .
Yes , it is a real thing . It is to encourage immigration from countries that have low immigration rates to the US . There are tens of thousands that are given each year . I want to say around 50,000 . The idea is to increase the USA 's diversity . If you ' win ' the lottery , you receive a ' Green Card ' or permanent residency in the United States . EDIT : True ( via Hippietrail ) , you should be very careful . I believe Russia was on the list last year , but you must check that . Although Ukraine I know tops for number of lottery issues in Europe . Warnings about the program can be seen <URL> . The registration is <URL> .
Do n't book before you get there . The prices quoted by silent1mezzo are staggeringly expensive , compared to what you can get once you 're actually in Peru . Most 5day tours should run for less than $ 200USD . The first step is to get to Cusco . You can fly there ( landing there is pretty spectacular ) or you can get a cheap bus from pretty much anywhere else in the country . Some people have problems with the altitude in Cusco , so planning a couple of days for acclimatisation and exploring is a good idea . There are some short walks to ruins near the city that will help . There are probably hundreds of tour operators in Cusco ( <URL> that have an online presence , there are many more without one ) that run hiking tours to Machu Picchu . Ask around , or at your hotel/hostel for tour company recommendations as they 're likely to change . If you want to do the Inca Trail , it is recommended that you book well in advance ( months ) , as this is so popular . Because of the popularity it is also very well trafficked and apparently not very charming or enjoyable as a hike ( I did n't do it , so this is just hearsay ) . Basically , I would prepare for there to be whinging tourists to be all about you . There are many hiking alternatives to the Inca Trail which also end up at Machu Picchu . These can all be booked in and leave from Cusco at less than a week 's notice . Salkantay : 5days/4nights , goes high up into the mountains ( 4600m ) and past an unclimbed , snow-capped mountain called Salkantay . Some steep sections . Very spectacular . Choquequirao : A longer trek ( 9 days ) which includes cultural immersion as well as spectacular scenery . Involves 2 days of trekking back from Choquequirao on the same path , so there are some repeated views . Cordillera Huayhuash ( leaves from Huaraz ) : A comparatively quiet route offering solitude and scenery , takes one of two routes near the Cordillera Blanca mountains . Lares : 4days/3nights , Takes in the Quechuan lifestyle . Famous for the textile villages encountered along the way . Crosses two peaks and takes in some hot springs and lakes . Jungle Treks : Most of these involve a short walk , some downhill on-road mountain biking and a bus to Machu Picchu . Not highly recommended if you like hiking . DIY hike : Get to Aguas Calientes by train and continue up to Machu Picchu either by bus or by hiking the the five-mile trail . If you get there at dawn as it opens , your views wo n't be spoiled by the throngs of tourists that arrive later in the day . I should mention that most of these treks will be fully inclusive of include a tent and mat , food , and guide . Some provide a mule to carry your gear either all the way , or part-way with you . I found this against the spirit of hiking and chose to carry my own pack . Other tips : You can befriend your guides by offering to carry some of the food they are lugging for the group ( they will likely refuse , but the gesture is appreciated ) Ask questions of your guide - I found they were not very talkative about the history or scenery but when prompted had quite a bit of knowledge to share Always walk on the high side of mules so you do n't get bumped off a mountain It gets very cold at night at those altitudes , bring a good sleeping bag The sun can be very intense during the day at altitude , bring sunscreen .
Google 's official <URL> lists the following information in their <URL> : Average ( avg . ) speed Speed limits show how fast someone can drive legally . When getting directions in Google Maps , speed limits help calculate travel time . Default speeds : Roads in every country have a default speed limit depending on the road priority , surface type , and the country 's speed guidelines . If you 're not sure about the speed value , leave it as default . Some segments might have different speed limits and should be changed to ensure best routing . Verify the speed limit by looking at posted signs in Street View ( where available ) . Therefore Google does n't calculate the average road speed by looking at actual travel speeds , or at least it does n't do so directly . If you wish to verify their assumptions you could try viewing a given road on <URL> . Ecuador , Peru and Bolivia all have partial Street View coverage , so it should be possible to view at least part of the route before going : <URL>
With very few exceptions , reconfirmation no longer exists . Historically , in the days of paper tickets ( remember those ? ) , reconfirmation existed as a way of both the airline and the passenger being able to confirm that the tickets were all correctly issued and paid for , thus reducing the chances of problems occurring with a passenger turning up at the airport for a flight when the airline had no record of them . With far more computerized systems , with e-tickets , and with airlines now having websites where you can check your booking the need for re-confirming your ticket has disappeared and no major airlines still require it . You may find some small regional carriers that still ask you to confirm your booking , but you 'll never see it on a major carrier .
As of 2016 , the manned passport checks at Prague airport were replaced with boarding pass scanners . As a matter of fact , I did n't once have to show an ID flying PRG-BCN today . Therefore the question is now moot .
I would n't read too much into it . First and foremost , Solvang is a big tourist trap . This " Danish " town prominently features , for example , a <URL> famous for its collection of German cuckoo clocks and a <URL> of mostly British motorcycles . You 'll no doubt find Delft plates for sale there for the same reason you find T-shirt shops ; it 's a cheap souvenir , and most tourists stopping through on their way up the coast wo n't be too picky culturally . It 's the same reason you can find Japanese lanterns for sale in San Francisco 's Chinatown . Though the Netherlands is more famous for them , Denmark does have its <URL> and <URL> . The first windmill in Solvang , built in 1947 , was designed by Danish-American architect Ferdinand Soresen in the <URL> style ; he built another in 1950 and Danish immigrants Borge and Mimi Andresen built another in 1957 , so I do n't think their presence can be ascribed to Dutch influence . Many buildings in the town center were retrofitted with false timbering and thatched roofs to appeal to tourists , and not originally designed in the Danish style -- in fact , like most of California , many of the older buildings were originally Spanish Mission Revival style . In other words , all you see -- whether it looks Danish , Dutch , or something else -- is modern-day aping .
Dining alone is only awkward for you ( that is , it 's an internal thing ) . It does n't bother any of the restaurant staff , and it does n't bother any of the other customers . So , you have to figure out what makes you uncomfortable about eating alone . There are some ways you can mitigate this feeling : Find somewhere where there are also other people eating alone . If you 're travelling , you can almost always find a hotel or airport restaurant with other solo customers . The presence of others eating their own meals alone might be enough to make you feel better about doing the same thing . If the restaurant has a bar , you can often get meals served at the bar . You 'll often find other people doing this too . That way you do n't have an empty seat across from you . You can even strike up a conversation with the bartender if you are so inclined . Find a table or seat that does n't face other customers , such as looking out a window . Do what you 're doing now , absorb yourself in your mobile technology . I also used to feel extremely awkward about eating alone . I can clearly remember specific restaurants from years ago where I was feeling really uncomfortable eating by myself . However , somewhere along the way I realised that there was n't anything to be uncomfortable about , and today I have no trouble eating alone .
You 're unlikely to get a definitive answer to this question , since the exact internal visa criteria are not published . So take all advice you get with a grain of salt . So . Most countries do indeed treat multiple-entry status as an optional bonus of sorts : if you 're borderline , instead of rejecting the application outright , you 'll get a single entry instead . My understanding is that the EU does this as well , but it would not hurt to ask the embassy before applying . That said , if you 're only a casual tourist and/or a first-time visitor , you 're unlikely to get a multiple entry as your first visa . Providing an itinerary that requires you to depart and re-enter Schengen ( eg . Paris-London-Paris ) , preferably with some of proof that you really are going to do something legitimate ( letters from business partners , conference registration , etc ) , may help .
Tipping in cruises are categorized in 3 ways : Mandatory : Most cruise lines have a preset gratuity amount . The ones I have been on range from US$ 11-15 per person per day , which covers all ship staff : customer-facing and the one 's working behind-the-scenes . In fact this form of tipping covers a major portion of their salaries . Now many travel agencies roll these into their packages . Look for an itemized line reading " Prepaid Gratuities " . If absent , the charge will be applied daily to the credit card you use to place a deposit while on board . Obligatory : You will notice that most staff on reputable cruise liners will go above and beyond their call of duty . This can range from exceptional housekeeping , to some great recommendations at the dinner table . Some cruise operators will place an envelope in your room , where you can place cash tips for exceptional service , and also the person to address it to . Passive Tipping : We were told that post-cruise we would receive an extensive questionnaire soliciting feedback . Sure enough , we did . There were several opportunities in the forms to single out employees for recognition . I am told that the comments and citations go a long way in deciding their career path . So if someone does impress you a great deal , do make a note of their full name .
There is nothing strange about this . Depending on flight conditions or other restrictions , various services on flights have been disabled before . For example : Meal service is stopped if the flight is going through turbulent weather . People are restricted to move around the cabin during normal flight . Cabin lights may be turned on during night time flights . The ICE ( information , communication , entertainment ) systems may be switched off . It depends on what the crew feel is impacting the safety of the flight . Once a colleague of mine was asked to turn off his laptop while the plane was sitting at the gate , with the engines turned off by the crew . He was as baffled as I am because normally in this scenario you are allowed to use electronics and radios . However , he was asked to do so by the crew on the instructions of the captain . Specifically for the use of mobile phones and wifi , this depends on the aircraft being flown . On Emirates , for example , the system is available on all their A380 aircraft , but only some of the 777-300s because these are the older aircraft in their fleet . I am not aware of any restrictions specific to China regarding mobile use on commercial flights ; but as a general rule you are only allowed to use the mobile phone if the crew allows you to do so .
The Matrix does not show flights to points within Cuba . This is because ITA takes a wide reading of the US Treasury regulations that forbid US citizens and companies from arranging or organizing travel to Cuba without authority of the Treasury . ITA 's exclusion of all Cuban points is probably wider than is really required but that is how they implement their legal obligations . I have previously raised this topic with a developer at ITA Software . They foresee that US regulations will become more relaxed in the future and that there is no point in reconsidering their blanket exclusion at the moment .
As far as I know Ryanair never stated that it is possible to bring on board an extra bag with the airport purchase , this is what is official . Anyway , in my personal experience it really depends on the policy applied by the airport : I 'm a frequent Ryanair passenger and I only found a single Ryanair airport not allowing carrying on board the duty free shop ( Budapest airport ) . In a lot of airports ( for example Alghero , Pisa , Cagliari , Bergamo ) loudspeakers and banners at the entrance of the shops inform the passangers that the airport security allows carrying on board an extra bag . My advice is to look for these banners once you arrive at the airport . I KEEP TRACK HERE OF THE AIRPORTS THAT ALLOW TO CARRY ON BOARD THE DUTY FREE BAG , feel free to edit . Allow : Alghero ( AHO , 06/2013 ) , Bergamo ( BGY , 08/2012 ) , Cagliari ( CAG , 06/2013 ) , Pisa ( PSA , 07/2013 ) , Tenerife South ( TFS , 03/2013 ) , Gran Canaria ( LPA , 07/2013 ) , Alicante ( ALC , 07/2013 ) Do n't allow : Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden ( FKB , 04/2013 ) , Budapest ( BUD , 07/2012 )
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
end question
start question
Can I take advantage of student discounts with Indian airlines if just passed out from college ?
I 'm assuming that this is a domestic flight within India that you 're talking about . Most Indian airlines do not offer an online booking facility for student discount tickets . You either need to go to airline booking offices or get it booked through an authorised travel agent depending on the airline , details of which are available on airline websites . As far as I know , only the two full-service airlines remaining in India - Air India and Jet Airways - do student discounts on tickets and they are n't that deep discounts . You may just find that getting a ticket with a low-cost airline - which do n't do student discounts - could be cheaper . In case you are eligible for a student discount , as long as your student ID is valid , it does not matter when you graduate . Also , since this is a domestic flight you wo n't have to go through passport control anyway . Even if it was an international flight , student discount tickets are not marked in any way - it 's just priced differently - so you would n't have to explain to passport control why you have a student ticket . Besides , many students do internships so it 's a realistic scenario that a student can have a job too .
The rental desk often wishes to see that the credit card is issued in exactly the same name as the driving licence . If you and your father share a name or a first initial it would probably be acceptable , but it seems to me a bit risky . A better solution is to ask your father to take out a second card on the same account , but in your name . This is called a " supplementary card " . He will be liable for any spending that you do , but the card will be in your name .
Icelandair takes <URL> , such as Vaulting Poles , Windsurfing boards , Kayaks , between Europe and North America , for a fee of 16.400 ISK/117 EUR/168 USD each way . Their hub is ( unsurprisingly ) on Iceland , and they fly to a number of destinations in North America and Europe . For the U.S. East Coast , they currently fly to/from Boston , New York , Washington D.C. , and Orlando . Their European connections are mainly in western Europe . See their <URL> and their <URL> . ( I took a bicycle with Icelandair , and it was only 39 EUR extra from Stockholm to Toronto . Not bad at all , in my opinion ) ( I do not work for Icelandair , but I can still tell you that as a bonus , you can take a long layover on Iceland , I 'm sure it has excellent whitewater rafting ! This does n't cost any extra for the ticket . I do n't know if the no extra cost applies to baggage fees . )
I 'm going to assume you 're from the UK , based only on the fact the learning to fly abroad is popular for UK residents , since many places offer flight time cheaper than the UK . You 're from Saudi , but I do n't think that changes anything . The southern USA used to be the venue of choice , because of low flight time costs and reliably good weather . I understand that recent visa restriction changes mean that USA is now pretty much off the table for someone wanting to earn their PPL on a vacation . My first recommendation is Canada . The <URL> starts by saying you need a student visa , but then notes that students intending to come to Canada for six months or less do n't need one . I would recommend checking this out before committing to anything . The weather is good , in the sense that flying conditions are rarely poor enough to prevent you flying . ( I recommend summer rather than winter though , just because people mostly do n't want to fly light planes when its very cold , even if the weather permits it ) . Other popular venues are Australia and South Africa . I 'm afraid I ca n't speak for their visa requirements . The schools I found with my brief search were all focussed on CPL training ( even more popular than foreign PPL training since the savings are higher ) . Your search results may vary . If you have a ticket paid to anywhere , those two would also provide you with the advantage of an awesome vacation experience . Be aware that learning to fly is going to occupy you full time for several weeks . While the weather may be nice , you wo n't get much ' vacation ' in the sense of relaxed beach-sitting or sightseeing while you are doing it .
This heavily depends on the type of train you are planning to use . In general there are 5 different type of trains you can use with your Interrail/Eurail pass regional trains which are included in a pass and no reservations are possible trains with reservations available but not compulsory . If you do n't buy such a reservation before boarding the train you might not get a seat at all . you are not allowed to board trains with compulsory reservation without one . There is mostly only a limited contingent of reservations available for rail pass holders ( typically high speed and night trains ) sometimes you are only granted a discount on standard ticket fares . ( E.g. Eurostar and Thalys ) some trains in Europe such as hotel trains for example do n't offer any discount for rail pass holders There are the following train categories operating in finland : Yöjunat ( night train ) and Pendolino ( highspeed train ) require reservations . You ca n't take those trains if they are already sold out . For intercities ( IC ) reservations are only recommended . The odds are high that you might not get a seat on this train if it is already booked up . Pikajunat ( P ) and Taajamajuna ( H ) are interregional and regional trains and do not require reservations . Just board those trains ! You can actually find details on reservations organized by country on <URL>
Page 5 , section 8 of this California Board of Equalization <URL> has the answer : Items Sold to Residents of a Foreign Country or Another State We have received complaints from foreign buyers that they were incorrectly advised by retailers that they could receive a refund of the sales tax on items they purchased and picked up in California . They were told they could do this by presenting their receipts at the airport . Although many countries have such a provision for foreign travelers , California does not . Nor does California have this provision for residents of other states . Consequently , if foreign tourists ask about a refund of tax paid on purchases , you should inform them that tax applies to merchandise delivered in California regardless of its ultimate destination .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
Upon landing at Abu Dhabi ; you and your luggage will be subject to an x-ray scan . At this point , any suspicious items will be confiscated . Although you are not importing items into the UAE ( as you never enter the country , but are in transit ) nevertheless any goods deemed inappropriate will be seized . You do run the risk of having the item confiscated but nothing more .
Unlike India , the UK ( and the European Union as whole ) has no hard and fast rule on the number of electronic items you may carry with you . What 's allowed is the following : Taking personal effects that you need for the duration of your trip across the border , especially if you are not a resident . Importing things that are worth up to GBP 390 tax and duty-free ( except a few things like alcohol and tobacco for which there are special rules ) . Importing much anything , provided you declare the goods as appropriate ( except fresh foodstuff , forbidden drugs or weapons , etc. ) . In practice , having two used laptops with you as a businessman is a non-issue . Also , for really expensive professional equipment , there are procedures ( e.g. the ATA carnet ) to provide guarantees that you are not going to import it illegally . What matters here however is the purpose ( temporary import ) , not the value or number of items per se . By contrast , carrying 3-4 identical laptops could raise concern ( e.g. that you do not really intend to take them back with you but will sell them or even give them away , which is not allowed if the total value is over the threshold ) . Similarly , if you were a resident that just went shopping abroad , even a single brand new laptop worth more than the threshold would have to be taxed . And note that the rules imply that any item being used permanently in the EU must have been declared and/or taxed at some point ( when it was imported , when it was purchased or perhaps as part of a move ) . It does n't matter whether you had only one item when crossing the border or were not detected at that moment , if you own a laptop whose serial number identifies as originating abroad and you ca n't prove you imported it properly , <URL> .
Yes , particularly in your circumstance where the airline can see it occurred because of a delayed inbound flight . In that condition the delay has encroached into the " minimum connect time " between LGA and EWR ( which is three hours ) . If you were involved in a delay between LGA and EWR I would also expect to be re-accommodated . However this is a bit more difficult to assert and prove . ( All of this relies on these flights being on a single ticket -- that is , bought at the same time from one seller . ) By the way , you can write " LGA-EWR " as " LGA / / EWR " to indicate that you are not flying between LGA and EWR but using alternative transportation .
Travelers leaving or entering the U.S. with more than $ 10,000 ( in any form , that includes cash or checks ) are required to declare it by filling out a Report of International Transportation of Currency or Monetary Instruments ( <URL> ) . This applies even if you are passing through the U.S. in transit to other countries . Source : <URL>
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
Oh I know this pain . As a citizen you can presumably count as a permanent resident ( as you 've not officially emigrated to any other country ) of Australia , meaning that you could look at the policies of <URL> . I used them during a similar period in my life ( Kiwi here ) .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
ECR is not something the US immigration is concerned with . It is only a formality for India ; and it only applies if you are traveling for work and even then , to a limited set of countries which does not include the US . Here is the official reference , from the <URL> ( I have highlighted the relevant parts ) : Emigration Act , 1983 provides that no citizen of India shall migrate unless he obtains emigration clearance from Protector of Emigrants . Similarly , it has been recognized that certain countries ( currently 17 ) do not have strict laws regulating the entry and employment of foreign nationals . They also do not provide avenues for grievance redressal . Thus they have been categorized as Emigration Check Required ( ECR ) countries . Hence , all persons , having ECR endorsed passports and going to any of the 17 ECR countries for taking up employment require emigration clearance . However , ECR passport holders going to any ECR country for purposes other than employment do not require emigration clearance . No specific mention of ECNR is made on the passports and the ones not endorsed as ECR , automatically belong to ECNR category . If you were to a take any GCC airline , you would be a transit passenger and ECR will not apply . To put it bluntly ; if you are able to exit the country , and you have a valid visa for the US - you should have no issues during your travel and on entry that have to do with your ECR .
Exchange programs and visas are unrelated . You will apply for any exchange programs as a student of Universidad de X , Mexico , and you will likely not even have to mention your nationality . But if you 're accepted , you will have to apply for the visa as a citizen of Nicaragua . Of course , both the " sending " and " receiving " universities will support your visa , so it 's quite likely you 'll get it assuming everything is in order ( respectable universities , you can prove you can afford the exchange year , etc ) .
Unfortunately , the online site doens ' t have all the features that a phone booking or in-person booking does . Perhaps one day . It 's not however , a duplicate of their functionality . Most common bookings can indeed be done online , and the assumption is travellers likely have similar discounts , if any . You have two options : Book two separate transactions , which gets you the discount , but causes you problems with bank fees and cardholder rights . You can also get the web discount , which is sometimes cheaper than in person anyway . Phone or book in person ( if possible ) . This allows more complex bookings , and should let you do it in one transaction .
Wow . . that 's a tough one . The official documents are online at the <URL> but ( naturally ) they 're all in Georgian and even Google Translate could n't help me find anything there of note . There 's an <URL> but they lack the detailed document search you need to find information this specific . Meanwhile , the US Department of State has this to say in their <URL> : They do n't mention knives at all but perhaps absence of evidence is evidence of absence in this case . Then there 's the completely unofficial , anecdotal accounts I 've turned up elsewhere on the web : Centurion , a hostile environment training provider , <URL> . ( To be taken with salt due to their business interests . ) This article in the <URL> also claims many students now carry knives to school due to an increase in bullying . ( Does n't mention if it 's legal . ) The author of <URL> , suggests Swiss Knives and Leathermans as good gifts for a host family . ( Might be stupid . ) These are about as far as you can get from an official source but they do paint the picture of a society either without strong concealed weapon laws or at least very poor enforcement . It may just be that my Google-Fu is weak today but I get the distinct feeling Georgia does n't have any knife laws to speak of . ( Oh but obviously do n't take them in your carry on ! )
You should be fine . For transits of less than 6 hours such as your case you do n't need a visa , as long as you have proof of onward <URL> , according to the Timatic tool on Emirates ' website . Transit - Oman ( OM ) Visa Visa required . TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 6 hours . Visa Issuance : Passengers in transit for longer than 6 hours , can obtain a single transit visa on arrival for a maximum stay of 72 hours if they have confirmation from the airline that a visa has been approved before departure .
end question
start question
Can I travel with a bike with n-days GVB cards in Amsterdam ?
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
You can travel to Italy with your current valid passport and your permesso di soggiorno . You do not need your old passport or the old visa . Your permesso di soggiorno is not " based on " a visa ; it replaces the visa . With a valid permesso di soggiorno , you do not need any visa . See , for example , the <URL> Article 5 ( 1 ) ( b ) : For stays not exceeding three months per six-month period , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit ; ( emphasis added ) Similarly , the permit itself allows you to remain in Italy as long as it is valid , and by implication to enter Italy at any time .
Why not just ask the government ? <URL> What documents , identification , and paperwork does a U.S. citizen need to travel internationally ? If you are traveling in the Western Hemisphere ( Canada , Mexico , Caribbean , Central and South America ) : Air Travel : All U.S. citizens departing from or entering the United States from within the Western Hemisphere by air are required to present a valid passport or NEXUS card ( if utilizing a NEXUS kiosk when departing from a designated Canadian airport ) . Merchant Mariner Document ( for U.S. citizens on official maritime business . ) U.S. Military identification card when traveling on official orders ; Note that children are also required to present their own passport when traveling by air . Land or Sea Travel : U.S. citizens entering the United States by land or sea are required to present a valid WHTI-compliant document , which include : U.S. Passports U.S. Passport Cards Enhanced Driver 's Licenses Trusted Traveler Cards ( Global Entry1 , NEXUS , SENTRI , or FAST ) Military Identification Cards ( for members of the U.S. armed forces on official orders ) U.S. Merchant Mariner Document ( for U.S. citizens on official maritime business ) 1 The Global Entry ( GE ) card is only an ENTRY document and may not be used to enter Canada , Mexico or Adjacent Island . As per Nate 's comment , from the non-government <URL> ( and I 'd take this list with a grain of salt or two . It 's not official and I have seen other lists describing Real ID compliance which differ from this list . However California is mentioned all the time has having an extension until Oct 2016 ) Much of the spirit behind the PASS Card also applies to the Enhanced Driver License ( EDL ) . Convenience , portability , and cost are the big selling points here . If you are a licensed driver , check to see if your state has developed an enhanced driver 's license Ohio program in conjunction with the Department of Homeland Security . Currently , only Washington State , Vermont , New York , and Michigan are fully up and running with EDLs . However , Arizona , Texas , and California are making progress with their programs , too . Thanks to phoog 's comment I realize that I was conflating two different types of licenses : Enhanced and Read ID compliant . From the government <URL> The Enhanced Driver 's License ( EDL ) is a driver 's license that is issued to U.S. Citizens or Canadian citizens in the U.S. State or Province in which you reside . This driver 's license is a Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative ( WHTI ) compliant document for travels by land or sea only . It denotes both identity and citizenship and is a Radio Frequency Identity card ( RFID ) . From that other great source of information <URL> A Real ID-compliant form of identification requires the following pieces of data : Full legal name Signature Date of birth Gender Unique identifying number Principal residence address Front-facing photograph of the applicant Said cards must also feature specific security features intended to prevent tampering , counterfeiting , or duplication of the document for fraudulent purposes . These cards must also present data in a common , machine-readable format ( bar codes , smart card technology , etc. ) . Although the use of wireless RFID chips was offered for consideration in the proposed rulemaking process , it was not included in the latest rulemaking process . DHS could consider additional technological requirements to be incorporated into the licenses after consulting with the states . In addition , DHS has required the use of RFID chips in its Enhanced Driver 's License program , which the Department is proposing as an alternative to REAL ID . My take on this is that the two classes of license ( Enhanced and REAL ID ) are very close in the features that they require and that the key difference seems to be the RFID component that is in an Enhanced license . Without knowing anything my gut feeling is that the features of the Enhanced license are a superset of those in the REAL ID compliant licenses .
The monsoon rains generally do not start until the end of May in that part of the world . What this means for you is that , the ocean on the western side of Sri Lanka is generally calm until June . So , I would say any beaches in and around Colombo or below would be great to check out . As a bonus , you might be able to do some " blue whale " watching , if you go to the southern side of Sri Lanka ( <URL> ) .
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
I might put it this way : if your license in your home country is sufficient to obtain a motorcycle ( " A " ) rating on your International Driving Permit ( and you carry your valid license along with the IDP ) , you should have sufficient documentation of your skills to operate a full-sized street motorcycle in the United States . If your license is in English and clearly indicates a motorcycle endorsement , that may be good enough in itself . The IDP standardizes the various vehicle operator permits and endorsements from treaty countries into thirteen categories . <URL> <URL> , the relevant vehicle categories would be A - Motorcycles A1 - Motorcycles with a cubic capacity not exceeding 125cm3 and a power not exceeding 11 kW ( light motorcycles ) ; B1 - Motor tricycles and quadricycles ; Since 47.46 hp is about 35.4 kW -- well above the 11 kW level -- it seems you could ask <URL> issues your IDP for the A rating . This being the regular motorcycle skill category on the IDP , I would expect it to be treated as a regular motorcycle endorsement in the 50 U.S. states and in Washington , D.C. , just as they recognize each other 's motorcycle endorsements . There is very considerable variation from state to state on what the cutoffs are at the lower end -- there is <URL> . If you can only get an A1 rating , therefore , it is possible that you would not be allowed to operate anything large enough to take on the freeway/expressway , which would make a coast-to-coast trip extremely difficult . I 'm not aware of any such separate licensing categories for larger or higher-powered bikes anywhere in the U.S. For good or ill , once you get a motorcycle endorsement here , it 's good for a 3 hp street scooter and a 205 hp <URL> alike , and up to you to operate only as much bike as you can handle . The cutoff between a motorized bicycle and a motorcycle / " motor scooter " / " motorized cycle " is low , often 1kW or 0.75 kW , and often based on engine displacement and wheel diameter in addition to or instead of power . Standard warning : as licensing and traffic law enforcement are handled by the states , it is good to review the laws of every state you plan to operate in . The American Motorcyclist Association provides a handy online summaries of <URL> . Note , for example , lane splitting and filtering are illegal in most states , and only explicitly legal in California . As a daily rider myself , I would also caution that motorcycling is rarer in the U.S. than in much of the world ; it is largely considered a recreational activity . Like bicyclists , scooter riders , and truck and farm equipment operators , you are thus at the mercy of car drivers who are not very accustomed to you , and who may resent your presence on the road altogether -- and of police who see a disproportionate amount of reckless joyriding on two wheels .
It appears that the requirements to import a cat to the U.S. may not be too onerous . The guidelines I have found for importing cats to the United States seem to indicate that they must simply be healthy ; it appears there may be surprisingly little paperwork involved . I just called the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) 's <URL> ( APHIS ) on the phone to ask about importing a cat from Ukraine . They confirmed that there should " not be too much worry " about importing a healthy cat , but referred me to the Center for Disease Control ( CDC ) , which has jurisdiction over animal importation to the U.S. , and to the California Department of Food and Agriculture ( CDFA ) . The CDC contact information is : And the phone number for California Department of Food and Agriculture is +1 (916)654-1447 . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention <URL> says : A general certificate of health is not required by CDC for entry of pet cats into the United States , although some airlines or states may require them . However , pet cats are subject to inspection at ports of entry and may be denied entry into the United States if they have evidence of an infectious disease that can be transmitted to humans . If a cat appears to be ill , further examination by a licensed veterinarian at the owner 's expense might be required at the port of entry . Cats are not required to have proof of rabies vaccination for importation into the United States . However , some states require vaccination of cats for rabies , so it is a good idea to check with state and local health authorities at your final destination . All pet cats arriving in the state of Hawaii and the territory of Guam , even from the U.S. mainland , are subject to locally imposed quarantine requirements . The U.S. Customs and Border Protection department has some scary words : Pets excluded from entry into the United States must either be exported or destroyed . While awaiting disposition , pets will be detained at the owner 's expense at the port of arrival . USDA does not inspect or detain pets at U.S. ports of entry . However , they also seem to indicate that the requirements are not too complicated beyond simply having a healthy cat : The U.S. Public Health Service requires that pet dogs and cats brought into this country be examined at the first port of entry for evidence of diseases that can be transmitted to humans . The State of California <URL> says simply : All domestic cats must be healthy . A Certificate of Veterinary Inspection ( CVI ) , also known as a health certificate , is recommended . You should also check the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) 's " <URL> " web site . Be sure to call your airline ( s ) to ask about the airline 's requirements for transporting your cat . You will probably have to reserve a spot for the animal on the airplane ( even if it is traveling with you as " carry on " ) and pay a fee . If your itinerary includes flights operated by multiple different airlines , you will have to contact each of them individually , and probably pay a fee to each of them too . Also be sure to check the requirements of any intermediate stops in your itinerary . For example , it may not be possible to bring your pet through Ireland or the UK ( or other islands ) . Obtaining an English-language health certificate with a stamp and signature from a vet might be helpful .
There 's at least two separate facets to consider here . Legally , you 're in the clear . Restrictions covering <URL> and <URL> only require you to declare amounts exceeding EUR 10,000 . Norway , however , being outside the EU , <URL> ( ~ EUR 2,800 at time of writing ) or face a 20 % penalty , although it 's a little unclear to me where/how exactly you 're supposed to declare if coming from a fellow Schengen country . Safety is a bigger concern , as carrying around EUR 9,000 just seems like a really bad idea . The right thing to do would be to deposit it at a Latvian bank , declare its origin and pay any applicable taxes , and then you can transfer it easily to other countries , withdraw it from ATMs , use it to pay credit card bills , etc. . If you wish to stick to plain old cash , then <URL> and <URL> have some advice for you , although most of it boils down to " do n't " . In short , divide your money in multiple places , preferably directly on your body but in unobvious places ( hidden pockets in pants , etc ) -- this way you minimize the risk of losing them through both theft and violent robbery . The latter is n't a huge concern in Sweden or Norway , although one of the three times somebody has tried to pickpocket me did occur in Stockholm 's T-Centralen ...
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
For classical tourism locations , you might be having troubles since people of that age do not really like to travel to temples and other places that tourists like . Younger Japanese people prefer to go abroad ( Korea , Hong Kong , Thailand ) since this is often cheaper than traveling in Hong Kong . And since they have to go to Japanese temples and museums with the schools , they are rather happy not to have to do that once they have a choice . If you want to meet young people , nightlife is surely the better solution , no matter where . On the other hand , you might want to consider locations like Tokyo Disneyland or DisneySea , since those also attract a lot of different aged people . Another option that I can highly recommend is going to Matsuri ( festivals ) , concerts and fireworks , specially now that summer is approaching . Why ? <URL> happen frequently and are often used by younger people to dress up and meet . They normally last one day or a weekend and allow you to interact with people . You will of course also meet families with kids , but still have a fair share of younger people . Many temples have one day in the year where they organize one , and often block off some smaller street from the traffic where then small games are setup for people to ( pay and ) play . While there are much bigger ones , the smaller ones will allow you more to meet people who live around the corner . <URL> , specially in Tokyo can be a huge event where more people show up than you would care to count ( approaching a million ) . For the ones in Tokyo Bay , you will likely see the largest amount of people outside a stadium ever in your life . But since people go there early to find a spot to see the fireworks , stand around , drink beer and eat street food for hours , they present a perfect opportunity to walk around until you meet a friendly group you can share a beer with . The biggest difference from the Matsuri is that people come from further away , and whomever you meet might not be able to stay in touch with you . Concerts are great to meet people for all the obvious reasons , same as everywhere else in the world . If you get to show that you like Japanese music , you show your interest in the local culture and will most likely not meet a lot of other foreigners . One more option to mention are general hangout-spots like parks , open-air restaurants and bars etc. . Since Japan after all is a crowded place , wherever you go will give you options to sit close to people without coming over creepy and get to talk to people . I personally found that just sitting at a sushi-counter is a great place to start conversations with the chef and in return also with the people sitting next to you .
Since the card is prepaid , is there any reason to not keep using it until it cuts off ? You might want to keep it for voice use only ( where roaming charges are not as high ) as a backup or when you enter a new country and do n't have a local SIM card yet . Theoretically , you can also cash out unused credit under some circumstances , but it 's probably not worth the hassle . ( And when we that be ? There 's $ 10 of voice credit with the account . ) It depends on the details of your Belgian provider 's terms of service , but typically the roaming data usage will eat into that credit , and once it 's used up ( probably after a few MB ) it will stop working . There are some prepaid plans that will automatically top up the credit from your bank account or credit card every time it runs out , but this is usually a feature you have to activate separately ( and should , of course , avoid ) .
You may not need a guide specifically for kids , as all recent editions of Lonely Planet guides include little " family friendly " icons next to all listings that are considered family friendly , which means : Indicates children are welcome and accommodated for through the facilities available ( eg has change rooms , an elevator , flexible sleeping arrangements , children 's menus etc ) . Not used to indicate a child might enjoy a place ( eg a theme park ) -- that should be clear from the review . Most books also have a Travelling with Children chapter with various highlights ( and pitfalls ) for kids in that city/country . And while this wo n't help in your specific case , for older kids ( 8 + ) , there 's also the <URL> series intended specifically for kids to read and use themselves . And , as a traveling father of a 1.5-year-old myself , I 'll heartily second Grzenio 's recommendation to book accommodation in advance . Kid-hostile restaurants etc you can always deal with somehow ( take-away , one parent takes the kid for a walk while the other eats , etc ) , but conjuring a hotel room or crib out of thin air is a bit harder .
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
The UK is not part of the Schengen agreement . So you would need a seperate visa . The only situation you would n't is discussed in <URL> .
If you ever do have a situation where a visa stamp in your passport will preclude you from visiting another country , your passport agency will likely be fine with granting you a second passport . This happens not infrequently with US journalists -- the US government issues them a second passport for what some call the " terrorism tour " countries . ( The second passport is not free and is only issued after an interview with an FSO , Foreign Service Officer . ) The idea that you can only get one passport at a time from a particular country is NOT true . Your mileage may vary if your passport is issued by a country other than the US .
Use <URL> . To translate that into English , use ' Baking Soda ' . Sodium bicarbonate is the main ingredient for baking soda and it has this magical effect on bacteria , especially the ones that live in humid areas . Just put some sodium bicarbonate inside your backpack where it gets humid and leave it overnight , then remove it in the morning and NO brave bacteria would dare to live there . By the way , you can use it on your shoes as well and it will eliminate the bad smell and it 's totally odourless and safe .
Unfortunately , Dividend Miles is a " dead-end " program . The <URL> turns up nothing , and even a <URL> is now impossible . Some of this reflects general cutbacks in frequent flyer programs and some of it reflects the pending merger with American Airlines . Dividend Miles will almost certainly be merged into the much larger AAdvantage program , or into a new successor program , so there is no point to adding new partnerships . I do advise you , however , to keep the account active until you can redeem from it . If you participate in AAdvantage , these miles will be transferred or converted to that account within the next 12 -- 18 months ( if the Delta/Northwest and United/Continental mergers can be cited as precedent ) . If you do n't regularly fly OneWorld and have not been consolidating your miles in another OneWorld program , this could be the one to keep accruing to until you can spend them on something useful . <URL> in your Dividend Miles account will refresh your activity date , no matter how small . Charging $ 1 on your DM credit card to earn one mile would be good enough , or getting 6 issues of Cigar Aficionado for 400 miles would be good enough . And there are many <URL> ( RDMs ) . You do not specify how long you have before expiration , but let us assume it is less than the 60 days you should allow for credit from a program partner . Fortunately , you can still <URL> miles , which will reset your activity counter within a day . Miles to purchase cost $ 0.035 per mile plus 7.5 % tax ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 37.63 . Miles to share with a friend or family member cost $ 0.01 per mile 7.5 % tax and a $ 30 processing fee per transaction ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 40.75 . You can reactivate the account . The fee for doing so is a sliding scale based on the mileage balance : $ 10 for 1 -- 4,999 miles , $ 50 for 5,000 -- 19,999 miles , <URL> . There is no fee to donate miles . The minimum number to donate is 1000 . If you do not have an AAdvantage account and truly do not foresee ever needing one ( e.g. you accrue your OneWorld miles to a different program ) , it would be reasonable to drain the account by buying magazines and newspapers -- or gifting them to a friend , school , library , etc. -- or by donating them . But do drain it ; there is no point to letting miles expire , as they are then of no use to anyone .
You can check if you need a visa <URL> . If it does n't ask a question , this is likely because it is not relevant to your requirement for a visa . In this case you almost certainly do require a visa . Your permenant residency and ( presumably ) good reasons to return to the Schengen country in question should help improve the liklehood of being granted a visa however .
Probably not ( but it does not hurt to ask ) . RyanAir as actually a Q/A section that answers the question " can i book a seat for my luggage " . If taken verbatim this seems to apply almost exclusively to musical instruments , you would need to ask if your CP30 falls under those exceptions . However they give maximum dimensions , so if your robot exceeds those you already have your answer . From <URL> . Sporting or musical equipment including but not limited to large fishing rods , golf clubs , bikes * ( bikes have a weight limit of 30 kilos ) , scooters , fencing equipment , boules , pole vaults , javelin , surfboards , bodyboards , snowboards and skis and large musical instruments including but not limited to harps , double bass and drums are inherently unsuitable for carriage by airlines operating fast turnarounds such as Ryanair . However , these items may be carried in the hold of the aircraft in addition to your personal checked baggage allowance up to a limit of 20 kilos per item . Fees apply , click here for details . Any sporting and musical item weighing over the 20 kilos allowance will be charged for the excess at the applicable excess baggage rate per kilo . Bicycles - MUST be contained in a protective box or protective bike bag in order to be accepted for travel . Electric bicycles can not be transported by plane . Smaller musical items such as a guitar , violin or viola which exceed our cabin baggage dimensions may be carried in the cabin if a seat for it has been reserved and the appropriate fare paid . There is no checked or cabin baggage allowance associated with the purchase of an extra seat . To book an extra seat for an item the word " ITEM SEAT " must be entered as the surname and " EXTRA " must be entered at the first name . EXTRA ITEM SEAT will then be displayed on the reservation and online boarding pass . The accompanying passenger 's travel document details must be entered during the online check - in process . Reserved seating in emergency rows 1,16 and 17 may not be purchased if you have purchased an extra seat for item/comfort . For health and safety reasons Ryanair does not accept for carriage any individual item exceeding 32 kilos or with combined dimensions of more than 81cms ( height ) , 119cms ( width ) and 119cms ( depth ) . This weight limit does not apply to mobility equipment .
It appears not , <URL> : Making your booking and taking your flight The DEFRA Export Section ( Dogs and Cats ) will advise you of the current documentation and vaccination requirements for your destination . We will also require a health certificate from your vet to show that your pet is fit for air travel . When you make your booking you will need to let your travel agent or British Airways booking representative know that you will be travelling with a pet . Your pet will not be able to check in with you but will be handled professionally by British Airways World Cargo , a cargo booking will be required which can be requested through the local British Airways World Cargo booking office . On the day of travel , deliver your pet to the British Airways World Cargo Office . The travel container will be checked and the appropriate charges collected . Please check local payment options when making your booking .
end question
start question
With car rental should I pay now or pay later ?
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
It 's common in Europe for many cars to have a Diesel or Gasoline version . Usually , but it is not a rule , if the model of the car has a letter D it 's a Diesel car , but this is not a rule . It 's not a rule as well for the car to have a letter on the model name . Usually in Diesel cars you will find some warnings about it . The rental car agent will tell you Next to the gas tank a warning about the type of petrol . The diameter of gasoline hose has a different size of a diesel hose . It will be hard to put the wrong hose inside the tank . The label on the key could have DIESEL written on it ( HERTZ does that )
The rules depend on the specific place you want to park and are always posted there . The city districts are in charge of parking so the specifics differ from district to district . At the moment mostly only to park in the dark red zones of the map below you need a parking ticket ( <URL> ) . Of course the districts need some <URL> after which they model their parking zones . According to section 3.1.4 parking should be generally free at the night and on Sundays . Parking is usually only charged Monday through Friday 9am to 8pm and Saturdays 9am to 6pm . The rules specifically mention the possibility to extend those times if needed in that place . So you always should check how the times are at the place you want to park ! In German that sounds this : Als Regelzeiten werden empfohlen : Montag bis Freitag 9-20 Uhr Sonnabend 9-18 Uhr . Die gesonderte Betrachtung der Advents-Sonnabende entfällt . In Einzelfällen mit hohem Gastronomie - und Freizeitanteil kann es sinnvoll sein , die Bewirtschaftungszeiten auf Grundlage entsprechender Untersuchungen in die Abendstunden und/oder auf den Sonntag auszudehnen . Die Bewirtschaftungszeiten sollten möglichst berlinweit einheitlich angewandt werden , um Irritationen der Autofahrer zu vermeiden . Translation off the top of my head : Recommended common time periods : Monday to Friday 9 a.m. -- 8 p.m. Saturday 9 a.m. -- 6 p.m. . A special consideration of Saturdays during advent is omitted . In singular cases with a high ratio of [ traffic related to ] gastronomy or leisure it may be sensible to extend [ parking space ] management time periods to the evening hours or Sunday based on suitable studies . Preferably the management time periods should be applied consistently across Berlin to avoid irritation among vehicle drivers .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
I will be travelling around many Western European countries which I expect to not have these sorts of experiences . Actually , <URL> .
Most of the major travel websites such as <URL> and <URL> will allow you to search multiple rental car companies in one search . My personal preference is <URL> who display the results in a clean table of company v 's car size . Where rental cars differ from airlines ( and thus services like " matrix " that you 're referring to from ITA Software ) is that they work far less on published prices , and far more on discounts , " corporate " codes , and coupons . The rates you 're going to get from any of the search engines above are generally not going to be as good as those that you 'll get directly from the rental car company using a discount code or a company code for something like AAA ( if you 're a member ) , your airlines Frequent Flyer program , or even just a promo code or coupon listed on the rental companies website ! Personally I will normally use Orbitz to get a general feel for which of the rental companies is cheaper for the dates I 'm after , and then head to those companies website and see if any coupons/AAA discount/etc will make the rate shown even cheaper . And remember , most rental car companies do not charge to change/cancel bookings ( except for pre-paid rates ) , and prices do change over time , so re-checking your rates as you get nearer to the booking can save you some real money !
Sorry for the late answer . You should n't pay any hotel tax in Colombia , even if they insist . Anyone traveling on a tourist visa is exempt from paying taxes on any hotel registered with the National Tourism Register ( which I understand is a requirement for every hotel in the country ) or a travel package . I own a tourism company in Colombia and cleared this with my accountant in our initial meeting . I 've also traveled extensively in the country as a tourist before moving here and have never paid hotel tax . If IVA shows up on the bill at checkout , ask them to waive it and they usually do it without hesitating .
My experience in the USA is that you can usually collect a car early , but there is no guarantee of this - if you want to be sure best call . It 's also worth pointing out that your hire will start from when you collect the car , even if this is before the time you booked . So a car collected at 10am is due back at 10am . They are very strict about late returns . Most commonly a 30 minute grace period is provided , and returns after that are charged the extra day . With some companies it is possible to extend a booking at an hourly rate for some hours ( most commonly up to 2 ) but if you do n't call up and extend ahead of the return time , you will be charged the extra day . I returned a car 45 mins late in SFO and was charged the extra day , and there was nothing I could do about it .
Yes , you can - of sorts . When you redeem the voucher you will need to mail it to AA ( or take it to an airport location ) . After it is processed , they will mail you a new paper voucher for the remaining value ( presuming it is more than $ 5 ) . This process normally takes ( at least ) a few weeks , so there will be a window where you will not be able to use the remaining credit , but when it is issued the new visa will have a 1 year expiry .
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
I would say that you do n't have to negotiate a price - usually driver just tell the price and you accept it :) However , you may get a " bonus " as a foreigner , but I do n't expect it to be more then 20-40 % . Regarding sample price for 100 km . According to my latest experience ( and google result ) , MastaBaba is more-or-less right - ~ 30 euros for bus for 10-15 people .
My best recommendation will be the bus . Your main concern is the fact that bus itineraries are not flexible enough . If you take the car to Whistler , then want to drive to the Rockies , your smoothest and fastest itinerary will take you through Vancouver too . A car is costly , and if you drive it one way you will have to drive it back . Last summer I did that ( with an even more customized trip ) and ended up driving the car back from Calgary to Vancouver with someone to share the ride on part of the way , it was a long 20-hour drive ( with a sleep break ) . I posted my ride share ad on kangaride.ca and found only a French guy to share the ride ( he had been to Eastern Canada , where kangaride/amigo express is popular ) . I posted it on hitchplanet.com ( which is a ride share website more for Western Canada ) too but got no one interested , nor on Craigslist . I did n't try but kijiji.ca is popular in Canada too . In Eastern Canada there are also some local facebook groups where people share their trips . And a final way to find ride shares is to post ads in hostels ( email them ahead of time , it might help ) . Here are your ride share website options . I would not count too much on them though , there are definitely fewer options than in Eastern Canada ( and way way fewer than in Europe ) . My experience in Eastern Canada vs France is that Eastern Canada has a many rides per day between big cities and about one per day to remote areas ; in France it is multiple per hour between big cities and multiple per day to remote areas . Western Canada seems to have one every couple days , even between Vancouver and Calgary . If you plan your trip early enough , you might want to post on travel websites for finding travel partners ( I can think of <URL> , it is a website for French people going on work and holiday visas , mostly to Eastern Canada and there are a lot of ads for shared trips ) . For the bus , you definitely have the perfect itinerary , you follow exactly the bus network . <URL> seems to definitely be a touristy route ( sure you will come back to Vancouver to go East but by car probably too ) . The " sea-to-sky " highway ( the road between Vancouver and Whistler ) is definitely one of the most gorgeous route I have travelled . I drove it and did not enjoy it enough ( winding a lot , I had to focus on the road ) and there are very few parkings to stop on the way . So I would recommend to take the bus on that portion and sit on the left of the bus on your way up to Whistler . The good thing is that the price for this route is fixed so you can book it just one day ahead if you do n't find a ride share . Then the Greyhound goes all the way from Vancouver to Calgary through Banff and Lake Louise . Lake Louise bus stop is several kilometres from the lake itself but definitely walkable in the morning to reach your trailhead . And Banff might be a little better with a car since it is a large town and trailheads are a bit out of town . Greyhound offers cheap advance fare ( more than 21 days before ) so these would be the tickets to book early on . The part where a car might be the best option is along the Ice fields parkway , linking Banff to Jasper . This is a national park and it offers gorgeous views from the side of the road or from the top of some 1-hour hikes from the road . You can still see many of these from <URL> and actually hike from Jasper . There are many trailheads from Jasper town ( but a much larger choice if you have a car there ) . Brewster ( the bus company ) also offers Ice fields parkway trips but they seem a bit overpriced . Hitch-hiking ( not on highways ) from Banff or Jasper to a trailhead or back is certainly easy . Oh and I almost forgot the train . The best views from the train are East of Jasper ( not on your route ) . And the westbound train from Jasper to Vancouver rides at night so you do n't see much anyway . If you do not want to spend too much money that 's not the best idea . The views between Lake Louise and Yoho park are more worth too . So here are all your options : the car for the flexibility but for a cost and you have to drive it back ( or pay an expensive one-way fee ) , or a mix of bus and ride shares ( most likely just bus ) for cheaper but with much less flexibility . Your turn to choose . On top of that , if you pick the car option , I would definitely recommend you to go a bit off the beaten paths , i.e. not stay in downtown hostels but the so-called " wilderness " ones , going to other parks on your way ( Garibaldi lake near Whistler , Kootenay , Yoho , ... ) and obviously offer to share your ride on websites . Note for the bus : on many buses , checks are performed prior to boarding and bear spray is forbidden ( even in checked bag ) . So if you need bear spray , buy it locally .
It 's hard to agree with Mhche 's answer here . Unless you have a very limited number of places you want to visit and are just going to take a few trips to the larger towns or villages along the coast , I would strongly advice against using public transport . Even if the buses travel fairly regularly through the " suburbs " of Rhodes City and to some extent down the east coast , at least to Lindos and Gennadi , the time tables for the villages on the west coast and in the interior parts of the island are very sparse . From Monolithos , there is e.g. just one bus in the morning going to Rhodes City and another bus in the late afternoon going from Rhodes and back , of course only Mo-Fr . This is the case for several other villages as well , if they have a bus connection at all . At least between Rhodes City and Lindos , the main road on the east coast is not particularly close to the coast . If you want to go the beaches or see any of the spots along the coast , expect to leave the bus at the main road and walk the rest . Bus tickets are more expensive than the 3 euros mentioned by Mhche . Travelling from Rhodes City , expect to pay about 5 $ to Lindos or 10 $ to the south of the island . Taxis are also rather expensive on Rhodes . A taxi from Rhodes City to Lindos will cost about 60 $ , to the southern parts of the island expect to pay more than 100 $ . Unless ordered and agreed upon in advance , do n't expect to find available taxis " on command " in the rural parts of the island . Do n't expect the bus drivers to speak English . The traffic is not that bad on Rhodes , so alternatives to renting a car could be to rent a bike or moped . With some luck , you may get a bike for 5 $ / day and a moped for 10 $ / day . But even the coastal roads can be quite hilly , so do n't underestimate riding a bike in the warm Rhodes weather :)
There is currently little consumer demand in the U.S. for NFC payments , for a number of reasons : Magnetic card swipe readers are ubiquitous ; in D.C. , I can use them not only at gas station pumps and for Metro tickets , but in vending machines and parking meters , and even in almost every mom-and-pop shop . There is a standards battle underway between Google Wallet , ISIS , LevelUp , Square , and other players which has divided the small market . Vendors and consumers alike are waiting . Apple has not gotten behind the technology , meaning it is not available on the most popular and arguably the most aspirational brand of devices without obtaining a hardware accessory . All mobile phone-based NFC payment technologies are newish , and not without their kinks . To relate an anecdote , in the time it took my co-worker to show off paying at the drugstore with his new phone -- to retrieve and unlock it , hold it up to the reader , be recognized , and receive the payment approval -- I could have retrieved my credit card , swiped , and put it away three or four times . As such , mobile phone-based NFC payments are very rarely accepted by independent establishments , and even some major chains are giving up on it for now ; <URL> . If you do want to use NFC , there are a growing number of options , but they are mostly with large chains . ISIS is accepted at McDonald 's and CVS ; Google Wallet is accepted at Walgreens and Five Guys ; Square is accepted at Starbucks ; and so on . The backers of the different NFC networks are striving mightily to promote them , so they will have web pages devoted to listing supporting vendors ; for example , you search can search by city or postal code for local <URL> and <URL> merchants , including vending machines .
Coverage is specific to each policy which can vary greatly for each country so it is hard to generalise , but I 'll generalise anyway and hope it helps . As you mentioned , there are broadly two types of insurance that you need to consider : collision - which covers damage to the vehicle ; and liability - which covers damage you may inflict to others . Since insurance is a high margin area for car rental companies ( at least in the US ) it is smart to do your homework ahead of time and avoid making the decision at the counter The first place to check is your own car insurance policy , if you have one . Generally it includes liability for any car that you drive and not just the car ( s ) that you own , so that which would include a rental car . It may also include collision coverage of rental cars depending on your policy which means that you do not need to purchase any coverage from the car rental company . Some credit cards do include insurance for car rentals as a benefit , but this is specific to the particular credit card program . Call your credit card company to check the details of your coverage . If you do n't have coverage through either of those , you can purchase third-party insurance which is likely to be cheaper than purchasing through the car rental company . Depending on the car rental company , you may on occasion need to provide proof of any external insurance coverage if you decline the rental company 's coverage . Also , in the case of damaging the vehicle , you may be required to pay the rental car company for the damage and then claim it back through your insurance provider . You may also find rental companies selling personal belongings or similar protection . This is generally unnecessary as your belongings are likely covered by either your Homeowners , Contents , or Travel insurance . As a side note -- in my experience , insurance offered by the rental companies in the US is expensive ( e.g. doubles the cost of the rental ) but offers low or even zero deductibles . In Europe , the insurance offered by the rental companies is generally cheaper ( e.g. a couple euros extra per day ) but the deductible is much higher ( e.g. $ 500 - $ 1000 ) and they may require a deposit to cover it ( e.g. a hold on a credit card ) . When I first rented a card in Europe I was shocked by this and was n't prepared to cover the deposit . But now I much prefer it as I no longer have a car insurance policy and hate paying the outrageous rates when traveling back to the US and there is no high deductible option .
If you do n't buy insurance through the rental car company , and have no coverage through travel insurance , credit cards , or your home auto insurance , then the only liability insurance you will have is the minimum coverage the rental car company <URL> in most states . The minimum liability insurance you must have , by law , in Texas is detailed <URL> , along with other helpful information about car insurance in the US : The current minimum liability limits are $ 30,000 for each injured person , up to a total of $ 60,000 per accident , and $ 25,000 for property damage per accident . This basic coverage is called 30/60/25 coverage . This describes liability insurance , which is mandatory insurance that covers you for damages you may cause to other people or property while driving . Note that this limit is very low . It is quite possible to do far more damage than this while driving , and you may be sued for the difference . Remember that medical costs in the US are expensive ; a car accident victim can easily run up a hospital bill far more than $ 30,000 . In the unfortunate event of a fatal accident or one that leads to serious long-term disability where you are found to be at-fault , you could incur significant liability . It is not uncommon for rental car companies , <URL> , to offer $ 1,000,000 in supplemental liability insurance . The rental car company , or a third-party , will offer to sell you supplemental liability insurance , which will increase these limits and allow you to better protect yourself . Separately , there 's insurance for the car itself . You will not have any such insurance unless you purchase some , whether from the rental car company ( CDW or LDW , which is n't strictly insurance , but is the rental car company agreeing you 're not responsible for damage to their car ) or a third-party . If the car is damaged or destroyed , stolen while in your possession , filled with flood water , dented in a hailstorm , or spontaneously combusts , whether your fault or not , you are responsible for paying for it . You might be able to recover costs from someone else 's insurance if they hit you and they 're at fault ( assuming they have insurance ) , but the rental car company will come after you to pay up . They 'll also charge you for the loss in revenue they incur while the car is being repaired . Unless you 're prepared to pay for the car on the spot , insurance is a good idea . In addition , the rental car company may offer accidental medical and/or death insurance to cover you and your passengers . This is likely already handled by your travel insurance and may be unnecessary . They also may offer Personal Effects Coverage , which will pay you if your property is stolen from the car . Again , this may already be handled under your travel insurance and is best avoided by not leaving property unattended in your car . The New York Times has a <URL> to the options that may prove useful .
The cost is 2 Malaysian Ringits to get between terminals ( <URL> ) . Unfortunately , you ca n't buy the transfer tickets <URL> , like the other journeys , you have to buy at the counter . If you have some left over Singapore money , you could go to a money exchange place and swap it ( presumably there 's a minimum ) , and use the remainder to buy a nasi lemak or a coffee . Alternatively , while <URL> states that they do n't accept foreign currency , they do accept Visa and Mastercard payments . Or ask another tourist to swap some coins , make a friend and buy them coffee in exchange !
Things to consider : data roaming is very expensive you 're charged for incoming calls in roaming you 're charged local cost + roaming surcharge for outgoing If you have a sim-free second phone , your best option is to buy local sim . Pay-as-you-go ( called pre-paid here ) are very popular and inexpensive in Poland . You can get them as low as 5PLN ( $ 1.60 CAD ) . You can get 1GB data package for 25PLN ( $ 8.10 CAD ) . Comparison of current offers : <URL> Columns are different offers from various operators . Row groups : first 4 - price per minute to different networks ( " bezpłatnie " = free ) . SMS in the same network , different network , MMS , data w/o data package validity of the credit in days ( outgoing/incoming , depending on the credit you bought , eg . with 5zł " Play na kartę " starter you can make calls for 5 days and receive calls for 65 days before you have to recharge more credit , " rok " = " a year " ) extra packages ( most likely not interesting for you , except data packages ) .
end question
start question
Where to park a car in Luxembourg ( city ) ?
There are <URL> ( = Park and Ride ) around Luxembourg City . All but one are totally free . The one at Bouillon is only free for the 24 first hours . When you arrive from Germany , Kirchberg is conveniently located . Otherwise , go to Luxembourg-Sud . It is next to the junction of the highways from Germany , France and Belgium . Kockelscheuer is a bit more remote , but still okay . Beggen is not practical if you arrive from abroad . Each of these parkings has good and frequent bus connection to the center of Luxembourg City . You can reach the city center in less than 20 minutes from each of them . There is strictly no free parking space within 20 minutes walking distance from the city center . As a matter of principle , in Luxembourg City , all the parkings except the P+R have to be paid for . If you can read some French , have a look athe the following official links <URL> <URL>
While this is likely to be off topic , here 's an answer : <URL> This is THE spot for buying vintage electronics . <URL> While it seems from the outside that Akihabara is only anime and manga everywhere , originally the area was ( and still is ) the best spot for electronics . You want to visit the maze of small shops under the tracks of the Sobu main line . <URL> Keep in mind that there are many other shops around Akihabara , it would be too long to catalog them all , but I encourage you to explore around .
No . I am also registered with Uber in London and have successfully used it in Amsterdam , Cape Town , and other cities . It 's the same account , same process . Of course , you 'll be billed in local currency - and do n't forget you may have to pay roaming data fees on your phone contract .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
There are basically two ways of driving through france . Through the " <URL> ( RN ) " , and the " <URL> " . The autoroutes are the quickest and most convenient network in France . However , if you have the time and want to enjoy the beauty of the countryside the route national provides a valuable alternative for driving through France . Another advantage of the RN is that they are toll-free , whereas most highways have tolls . As @Gilles already said the highways have regular rest areas , they are called " Aires de repos " . <URL> where you can find the offered services per rest area . This website is in French , and also not handy since it uses the French numbering ( Axx ) to search , whereas the Google Map used , uses the <URL> In general you have two types of " aires de repos " . The first being offering services like restaurents , service stations , sometimes a hotel , etc. . The second being the basic version with at most only lavatories . You can distinguish the two by the panels indicating the aires on the highways : The ones with extended services : ( Source : Google maps ) and those with basic services ( typically containing an icon with a fir tree ) : ( Source : Google maps ) Personally , I would not recommend staying the night at basic stops ( the ones with the fir-tree icon ) . The ones with services can provide a relatively safe stop to spend the night . Regarding the showering , some do provide showers , but it is not common . Your best chances are where the truckers rest as well . On the RN , the aires de repos with services are not that common . Usually you 'll find the services in the cities the RN connects . Just before entering a city check for the budget hotels . F1 , Camponille , and Ibis Budget are examples of budget hotels throughout france where you can stay and take a shower . They provide a very basic formula catering to drivers . They are open 24 hours a day . I have spent the night in my car while driving on a route national , but it is something you need to decide for yourself whether you are comfortable doing . I would not recommend staying at a supermarket car park at the city boundaries . Local bored youth might disturb your night 's sleep . What I do is search for a nice spot in the country side , park my car out of sight and take a nap . You can also buy or bring a tent and stay at the various campsites .
You can buy the 4G SIM card in Telkomsel Grapari in Jakarta and Bali , read <URL> under " Terms and Conditions " . You can find the address list <URL> .
<URL> . It is the official Munich website and it lists some places where you can park your camper . A lot of them are camping grounds , but there are also some areas where you do n't have to camp but where you just can leave your camper . At the bottom of the page there are also some special places listed , that are only available during the Oktoberfest . I think this suits your best .
$ 730 unfortunately is n't that shocking and in par with my experiences all over Europe . It is either : Common practice imposed on any car rental agreement by the software the rental agency uses . The amount you lose in case you are liable for in case of damage or an accident . It is not uncommon for rental companies to still apply a deductible even if you have " full coverage " insurance . If this is the case it typically is in the small print of your rental agreement . The last time the default was a $ 2,500 deductible , which I could decrease by buying additional insurance . Still after paying the maximum amount a $ 620 deductible remained . The rental was a small Peugeot 307 for $ 39 per day , with an additional $ 16 to cover liability up to $ 620 . Also be aware that in most cases even if an accident was not your fault , the rental agencies will keep the block up until everything is dealt with . I had this some years ago when some one tail-gated me . I had to wait one and a half years before I got reimbursed .
A couple of options : Park at an outer Underground station . I used to park at Newbury Park station to the east of London . It 's just off the A12 and is on the Central Line . It 's a bit of a long trip on the tube , but only cost about # 5 to park for a full day . Depending on where you 're coming from , where you 're going to in London and where you 're going afterwards , there may be a more appropriate stations . Street parking . My parent live in London , and there 's quite a bit of parking near them ( Rotherhithe , in this case ) . It depends on the borough , the time of day etc. , but it might be viable . You can potentially get within walking distance of the center , and certainly near a tube station . If you 're leaving London on a weekend , this also has the bonus of being close enough to drive through the center of London ( since the congestion charge does n't apply on weekend ) , which is quite an experience . Good luck , whatever you decide !
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
According to <URL> ( Twin City 's Slovakian partner ) : Selling points : the tickets in the FLORA TOUR Headquarters on Kúpeľná Street ( Bratislava ) , in the FLORA TOUR Office in the Passenger Port ( Bratislava ) or in FLORA TOUR Office at Schwedenplatz ( Vienna ) . In the Kiosk under Nový most ( Bratislava ) it is possible to make a reservation . The exact location of these selling points is available <URL> .
The answer to this is : Fairly . I did n't use a colectivo in the end myself - for our group and distance , a Taxi only cost 30 MXN more . The walk from the highway is real , but probably only 500m - 800m or so . There is a sidewalk on the highway overpass ( if you need to get to/from that side of the road ) . Once over the highway there is a footpath seperated from the road to take you to the entrance .
There is some parking advice at the website of <URL> ( Dutch ) . Er zijn maar een beperkt aantal parkeerplaatsen bij de terminal . Wij adviseren u te parkeren in het centrum van Hirtshals.Het is ook mogelijk te parkeren bij het kortbij gelegen Hotel Skaga -- Contacteer de receptie van het hotel . Het is niet mogelijk om vooruit parkeerplaatsen te boeken . Free Translation : There are a limited number of parking spots right at the terminal . We advise parking in the center of Hirtshals . It is also possible to park at Hotel Skaga , which is close by . Contact the reception of this hotel for further information . It is not possible to reserve parking in advance .
This liability insurance issue depends on every country . As for the US in particular , every state may have a different policy . It is indeed required in many states to have liability insurance . In most states where liability insurance is required , the rental car company will provide a minimum coverage . But be careful , as stated in <URL> : Financial Responsibility Limits by State The following chart lists the Automobile Financial Responsibility Limits of the various states . Hertz is not required to provide such minimum protection in all states . However , the purchase of LIS will include primary protection which combines these minimum limits of protection with an excess insurance policy to provide the first $ 1,000,000 of combined bodily injury and/or property damage for each occurrence . Georgia : 25/50/25 ( Per Person Bodily Injury/All Persons Bodily Injury/All Property Damage ( in thousands of dollars ) ) Hertz clearly says the liability is not always provided . They add : At many Hertz locations , you receive secondary liability protection , and , in a few locations , no liability protection under the terms of the Rental Agreement from claims of injury by others against you resulting from an accident with your rental car . Some locations provide primary protection under the Rental Agreement . However , in those situations where protection is provided by Hertz , such protection is generally no more than the minimum limits required by individual state law . ( See chart for these Financial Responsibility Limits . ) So , clearly , it depends on every rental location . Avis , <URL> ( Protections/Coverages > Automobile liability ... ) is clearer on which states are concerned : there is no provided coverage for California , Texas and Utah . In Missouri , the state 's minimum coverage is provided if the customer has no coverage on its own . From the name ( SLP ) of the suggested liability insurance option , it is possible your rental company is <URL> . Even if not clear , the words they use suggest they do NOT provide any liability insurance at all without SLP : If the renter accepts SLP , Enterprise provides third party liability protection up to the applicable minimum financial responsibility limit . the renter should examine his or her personal insurance policies or other sources of coverage that may duplicate the coverage provided by SLP . So I would recommend you to read the fine prints of your rental car company to figure what its policy is exactly regarding Georgia , to know if you need to suscribe a liability insurance option or not .
This is a matter of marketing , costs and strategies : marketing : if there were no incentive to go through this kind of broker , they would n't attract any customer and they would n't exist . costs : this is usually just about a website . They do n't own any car inventory , any retail store and have very few employees so the costs are slightly less than a car rental company . strategy : car rental ca n't discount themselves everywhere so their strategy is usually to give you a good price through this kind of websites to attract you and build brand loyalty with the hope that next time , you 'll book directly through them . Then , they put regular prices on their own website but you have a lot of ways to get discounts via loyalty cards and newsletter ... Hope this clarifies a bit :)
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
According to <URL> , the bus to Phuket runs every hour , while the one to Krabi is only once a day ( 11am departure ) . So on that front at least , there 's a good chance the Phuket route is the way to go . It 's a 4 hour bus ride approximately , while the ride to Krabi takes 3 . For the ferry , you have again the <URL> : Phuket ( Bang Rong Pier ) : 09:30 ; 11:00 ; 12:30 ; 14:30 ; 16:00 and 17:00 Phuket ( Chianwanich Pier ( near Ratsada Pier ) - Only to Ko Yao Yai ) : Every day : 8:30 , 17:00 ( speed boat ) | Sundays-Thursdays : 10:30 , 14:00 | Fridays : 10:00 | Saturdays : 6:00 , 10:30 , 14:00 Krabi ( Tha Len ) : 11:00 and 13:00 So again , the ferries are more frequent from Phuket than from Krabi ( the same applies from the island back ) . My recommendation in terms of flexibility , ease , and frequency - I would n't hesitate to take the Phuket route , unless you have a specific reason to see Krabi .
Almost all major hotels will do this . Conference centres will also make rooms available , especially if you are a conference attendee . The Moscone Center can provide these - they can also provide connection services if you also wanted to Skype from the room as well .
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
end question
start question
Are there " turn up and board " shuttle buses from Cairns airport to the city , or do you always have to pre-book ?
<URL> has a pretty easy system if you want to book - you can book , and if your flight is delayed , <URL> . They do ask that you book in advance however , to ensure bookings where possible . A better option for your situation may be <URL> who specifically state : Sun Palm Transport is the only Transport Operator which has welcome desks at both the domestic and international arrival terminals . If you have n't already made a booking for your Cairns Airport Transfers , through our online booking system , SUN PALM TRANSPORT operates service desks at Cairns Airport , for your convenience , one in each of the arrival terminals , to assist you with your transfers So that one , you can actually just rock up . They also have timetables and more information on the site . <URL> requires a booking in advance . <URL> also seems to require an advance booking .
You 're a little off , but if you Google for ETOPS you 'll find the details on what you 're referring to . In short , twin-engine planes ( eg , 737 , 767 , 777 , A320 , A330 , etc ) were originally required to remain at all times within 60 minutes of a suitable airport where they could land . This was done so that in the event of an engine failure they could land as soon as possible so as to significantly reduce the chances of the second engine failing . Quad-engine planes ( 747 , A340 ) did not have any similar restrictions due to their ability to lose at least 2 engines and still remain flying . As engine reliability improved , and as the twin-engine planes started to prove their reliability , the FAA ( and other similar organizations around the world ) brought in a classification called " Extended Twin Operations " , or ETOPS , which allowed for certain approved aircraft , being flown by approved airlines , to fly further distances from an airport . There are a number of different ETOPS ratings , such as ETOPS-120 ( 120 minutes from an airport ) , ETOPS-180 , ETOPS-207 ( 180 +15 % ) , and now even ETOPS-330 which allows certain Boeing 777 's to be up to 5 1/2 hours from their nearest airport ! Airlines without ETOPS ratings will sometimes need to take alternate routes in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport . eg , when Virgin Australia ( Virgin Blue at the time ) started flying Sydney-Perth they had to take a much more northern route in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport , where rival Qantas could take a more southerly/shorter route as their planes were ETOPS rated . ( For a good story on what can happen when both engines on a twin-jet fail , Google for details of the " gimli glider " )
Your reasoning is correct . Kayseri + rental car is the most convenient option . You have much more choice to and from Kayseri : better schedules and better prices , through competition . Moreover , the car rental facilities tend to be better at Kayseri . And it is not that further . Anyway , the drive is a quite relaxed one . Renting a car is definitely a good idea to explore that region . You will be more flexible . Getting from Göreme to more remote places like Mustafapaşa , Ihlara Valley or Kaymaklı is much easier and quicker with a car than with public transport . And you will be at ease to visit Kayseri . Indeed , if you have the time , stop by for a couple of hours . It 's worth it . An alternative would be to use an airport transfer , pulbic transport when possible and eventually take part in organised trips to the more remote areas or rent a car for that purpose on a daily basis . The organisational effort is however much bigger . You also lose some flexibility and spontaneity . A last word on the airports . Check carefully if your flight to Kayseri is operated from Istanbul Atatürk Airport ( code IST ) . There is another airport called Sabiha Gökçen ( code SAW ) . The latter is 50 kilometers from what one would call the city center . And transportation to and from this airport is by far not as straightforward as from Atatürk airport .
In Europe , the question is covered by <URL> . Annex I , section 5.3 reads Baggage reconciliation Each item of hold baggage shall be identified as accompanied or unaccompanied . Unaccompanied hold baggage shall not be transported , unless that baggage has been either separated due to factors beyond the passenger 's control or subjected to appropriate security controls .
There is indeed very little information about this online . A question asked prior to 2003 on the site ' www.h2.dion.ne.jp ' ( no longer online ) : Q : Do shinkansen trains have power outlet sockets for running laptop computers ? A : Generally , no , although the latest 700 series trains running on JR West Hikari Rail Star services do have power outlet sockets . <URL> confirms that the most 700 series models have power outlets for passengers . Hikari 546 is a N700 which have power outlets . Hikari 470 is a 700 which most likely have power outlets . Max Toki 329 seems to be an E4 series which is not likely to have power outlets . Only the N700 trains between Tokyo and Osaka have Wifi , and you still have to pay for it before you board the train using one of the Japanese carriers like <URL> or <URL>
Yes and No . There are a few different ways to get TSA Pre - each with it 's own restrictions . You can get access via your airline , particularly if you 're a frequent flyer . Historically you had to specifically request to gain access via this means , however many airline now will automatically submit you for access . Check with your airline to see if there 's a specific process , although this is likely only for US airlines . You do NOT need to be a US Citizen or Permanent Resident to get access this way ( historically you technically did need to be , but it was n't well enforced , and this restriction has recently been removed ) . You can get access via Global Entry , SENTRI , or NEXUS . These are programs generally designed for frequent travellers to make crossing specific borders ( specifically the US/Canadian border ) easier . Some non-US Citizens are able to join these programs , especially Canadian citizens . You do NOT need to be a US Citizen or Permanent Resident to get access this way , however access is only available to citizens from a very small list of countries . You can get access via the <URL> , where you basically pay a fee to be screened and then given access to Pre . Currently you DO need to be a US Citizen or Permanent Resident to get access via this means . If you are over 75 years old , or under 12 years old you will be given access . You do NOT need to be a US Citizen or Permanent Resident to get access this way . As an Australian with high frequently flyer status with United Airlines I get Pre access the majority of times I fly ( and have pretty much since the Pre program was introduced ) .
How reliable am I ? Depends how much vin rouge I 've had ... Seriously , I do my best to keep the site updated , it 's an uphill task but if I know bustitution is over I update the site . Countries with lots of visitors eg Italy , Vietnam , South Africa tend to be very up to date , obscure countries such as the Congo or Sudan tend ( in all honesty ) to get less proactive attention and fewer reports from travellers but still get updated the moment I see a news item or Google alert or traveller 's report .
Yes , there are several , and most run multiple services a day . Most will stop along the way though - rather than being a direct service . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Prices and times vary , so it 's best you have a look and choose the best for you and your group .
It certainly can be done -- is it reasonable , well that depends on your definition ... You 're going to have two major issues here . Visas You likely need visas for the places you 're visiting ( Russia , Mongolia , China ) , and they will need proof of onwards travel . You 'll likely have to get a specialist to help anyway and the overall visa validity is going to limit your options . Tickets If you do n't speak the local language getting tickets in some smaller places may be problematic -- this does n't mean it 's impossible with some help . However , let me quote from <URL> : But for travel between Russia and Mongolia or China , here 's a reality check : Demand exceeds supply for the two weekly Moscow-Beijing Trans-Mongolian &amp; Trans-Manchurian trains ( trains 4 &amp; 20 ) , also the weekly Moscow-Ulan Bator train ( train 6 ) , especially in the busy May-September peak season . Russian Railways opens bookings to travel agencies 60 days before departure , and Russian travel agencies buy up all the tickets to resell them at a mark-up . Station staff may therefore tell you that these trains are all sold out even if you went to the station the moment bookings opened to the public 45 days before departure , although you may be able to buy tickets if you called one of the agencies . If you want to use these trains , you should pre-book through an agency as shown in option 2 or 3 below . Ulan Bator to Beijing is also a pinch-point , as there are only 2 trains a week , so this too is best booked in advance through an agency . Which does n't mean you ca n't book through an agency from wherever you happen to be staying , but that may prove difficult . You 'll also see that trains are infrequent so if you do n't manage to get on a train be prepared to be stuck wherever you are for a few more days ( and have to pay the costs associated with that ) . Is it going to cost more ? Probably not , if you manage to get tickets at each station . Otherwise it 's difficult to say , prices seem reasonably fixed but if you 're dealing with agencies and booking with short notice it may inflate the price . So , possible -- certainly . Reasonable ? That entirely depends on what sort of traveler you , how much time , money and flexibility you have .
To look up public transport options in Queensland , sadly there is n't currently one single place to look . For south east Queensland , the <URL> has a journey planner that covers buses , trains and ferries for the area . Unfortunately , you 're after information on a different bit of the state , so Translink is no help ... <URL> provides urban bus information and planners in most of the state , which will help you with planning journeys around Cairns itself . It does n't cover long distance services , which is what you 'd want . The main long distance bus operators on the east coast are <URL> ( only runs from Cairns south ) and <URL> , but neither seem to currently serve Port Douglas . There are a few local services , such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , but nothing that runs that late/early . The upshot is that I think in order to get there then , you might have to get a taxi ... Or , why not just get the last bus there the evening before , and kip on the beach ?
You may qualify for " <URL> " , which would provide you meals , accommodation , transporation , if your itinerary matches certain conditions ( layover length between 8 and 24 hours , no better connections available and there are a few more limitations ) . If your booking does qualify , then you should see it as an option on Emirates website under " Manage your booking " .
The Hansaring station is about 10 minutes ' walk from the conference building . ( The KVB planner counts 14min , which is highly pessimistic , the distance is only 700m . ) From that station , line S13 ( see the <URL> ) gets you to the airport station in 17min ; you can see the times on the <URL> . The S13 trains call at Hansaring at :18 , :38 and :58 . For a 17:50 flight inside the EU , arriving at 17:15 would be cutting it close , so I 'd plan on taking the 16:38 train ( arriving at the airport at 16:55 ) , meaning you should be outside the building at about 16:25 ( allow a couple of minutes to buy a ticket ( $ 2.50 ) , I do n't think you can buy the ticket in advance ) . I do n't know what the traffic is at around 5pm in Cologne , but even with a clear way a taxi is n't going save a lot of time . The <URL> states about 15 minutes to get to the center , to which you need to add some time for crossing the Rhine . Google 's driving directions quote 23min , so in light traffic ( but can you assume that ? I do n't know ) you can leave at about 16:45 tops .
Do n't you hate that ? ;) Sadly , no , if you miss a leg of a flight at any point on a ticket , they 'll cancel ALL other legs of the flight . So unless you can get yourself to Allentown , you are unable to take that flight . It 's for various reasons , logistics , regional pricing , airport taxes , but basically , no , you ca n't . <URL>
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
According to <URL> , it is possible , it even lists suggested prices from the airport to San Francisco and Palo Alto , one more thing : Trips to or from SFO on uberX , UberBLACK , or UberSUV are subject to a $ 4 airport surcharge and any applicable tolls .
From a former cabin crew 's point of view , there are two issues here : 1 . Waking the passengers up : This is done for two reasons actually : Safety reason : It is a good practice for the airlines to wake passengers up whenever possible , the real reason behind that is checking if the passenger is ok or not . Many cases of very sick passengers ( incapacitated ) were discovered this way . Sometimes the crew fails to wake up the passenger and call a doctor onboard , doctor comes and discovers something wrong and saves the passenger ! . ( I have personally experienced that ) . Sometimes dead passengers are discovered this way . Furthermore , this practice is embedded in most airlines ' safety policies . Service reason : If the crew did not wake up the sleeping passengers at the time of the service , once the passengers wake up they will ask for a meal . This is not easy for many reasons , the meals can not be re-heated again ( food poisoning risk ) and most likely the crew will heat all of the meals for that service at once so no extra frozen meals available . The crew also can not use the meals from the second service before its time , also heating the meals takes from 20-30 minutes and there will be no time especially after the second service . So to save their selves from some problems , wake them up and ask them , that 's the best for both crew and passengers . 2 . Asking the passengers to put the seat in upright position : Now this does not really make sense , most of the airlines interior manufacturers have solved this issue and not the space nor the position of the opened tray table is affected by the seat position ( either upright of fully reclined ) because tray tables are not originated from the seat itself , they are originated from the seat legs which are fixed and do not move . So reclining the seat will only makes the upper area smaller but does not actually move the table backward . I worked for years as cabin crew on different models and different interior designs and never seen this issue . Yes reclined seats can make it harder for you to enter the row because the upper are will be more narrow but for sure it will not affect the lower area where the tray table is . Many airlines do distribute a " Do Not Disturb " sticker in long-haul flights to people who wants to sleep undisturbed will stick it so crew will not wake them up during services . First and Business classes passengers do not have to worry about this because they usually have more space between rows and in-seat tray tables . To answer your question , why do they do it in this airline , I really do not know and I can not know , but I am sure they have a good reason . Either they have a bad interior design or just some policy for a reason I am not aware of . As you can see in the photo above , the tray table is attached to the seat leg which is fixed . Reclining the seat while the table is down will not affect the table position . Otherwise the table will also be tilted !
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
So , you 've actually ended up asking multiple questions in one which strictly ( [ faq ] ) you should n't do , but I 'll try to address it as one . In relation to getting there in time for your flight , it depends on the airline you take , what they say , and also how much lee-way you want to give your arrival at the airport . However , yes , you can take ground transportation , and depending on what your plans are it 'd be a consideration . You can get buses directly from Flores to Belize , however , if you 're in Tikal , there 's this from <URL> : Don David 's is fantastic - we were there in January . They will be able to arrange all your transport if you need them to . I have rarely met such helpful people ! The buses to Belize run from Flores / Santa Elena but will pick up at El Cruce which is the main road junction about 20 minutes walk from Don Davids . Alternatively , Don Davids will arrange a ride into Flores . The buses run direct to Belize City with just a stop at the border . We used the service in the other direction with a direct bus from Chetumal to Flores via Belize City . The only advantage in going to Flores is that there is more choice of agents but they are all selling tickets on the same bus services . So you could ask your Tikal Inn if they can do the same , if not , wander over to Casa Don David 's and ask them for help . What about driving ? Some kind person has detailed <URL> ( well they went the other way , but just reverse it ) . <URL> ( Tikal Park ) lists a few flight connections that may be of use to you . And someone else <URL> : Finally , there is <URL> , but be aware the discussion is from a few years back , and may not be up to date . Conclusion - if you 're up for an adventure , I 'd go for the bus ride . Driving sounds like too much hassle . But if you have the time , public transport is always a fun time , or a good story . Much more interesting than just another flight .
It is about $ 10 taxi ride to 40 Hana HWY location . consider than $ 20 in total ( cover both ways ) and than consider if the savings are worth it .
<URL> If you are flying out of Lima internationally , the airport tax is US$ 31 , US$ 7.40 for domestic flights . As of January 2011 this tax has been rolled into the purchase price of the tickets at this airport . Ensure you receive a sticker on the back of each ticket from the check-in counter to attest to this at the security checkpoint .
end question
start question
Any late train from EuroAirport to Zurich ?
The general answer is yes , you will have a train at this time . However , the exact answer depends a little bit on the concrete date . During weekdays the last bus leaves the airport at 23:52 . Then you have 7 minutes to change from the bus to the train at Basel 's station . And your train will be at the main station in Zurich at 01:24 . On weekends the last bus leaves the airport at 24:00 . Then you also have to change at the station in Basel and you 're in Zurich around 01:58 . If that is too early for you , you can also wait for the first bus which leaves around 05:10 . Obviously the answer to this question also depends a little bit on where exactly you want to go in Zurich . The trains are all for Zurich main station . If you have to travel on from there , chances are high that there are no connecting trains during weekdays . On the other hand , during weekends ( Friday / Saturday nights ) , there is a 24h public transport service in whole Zurich . ( Be aware that this trains and buses , called Nachtnetz in German , cost additionally 5 francs ) . To check the schedule by yourself , <URL> I included a screenshot of a query for today , around 21:00 . You can also see the details of the last train at the bottom :
Numerous carriers fly to Yerevan : Armavia , AirFrance , Lufthansa , Iran Air , Czech Airlines , Austrian Airlines , Aeroflot and the like . Yerevan is connected to all major European and Middle Eastern cities : London , Paris , Amsterdam , Athens , Moscow , Vienna , Berlin , Prague , St Petersburg , Zurich , Minsk , Riga , Kiev , Istanbul , Dubai , Aleppo , Tehran , Beirut and so on . Air Arabia connects Yerevan to the Gulf states , Egypt and India via Sharjah . Armavia reopened the Route Yerevan - Tbilisi - Yerevan again , with two daily flights last year . I also checked my trusty S7 Airlines ( the English link is at the top left of their page ) , and confirmed that they can get you there for 197 Euros , pretty much any time of the year . Even using ITASoftware , the best I can see is 193-196 Euros any time in July ( arbitrarily picked month ) , same for November , same for February , and ... oh ... Now we 're getting somewhere , I assumed it might be cheaper later on , but it 's actually cheaper this month . Still the best I can see is on May 30th for 189 Euros , with Aerosvit , stopping off in Kiev . That 's on a search that includes Aeroflot , Aerosvit , S7 Airlines , Austrian Airlines , Transaero , Lufthansa , British Airways , BMI and many many more , as well as combinations of the above into ' hacker fares ' . So long story short , for now ( I may play more later ) , it just looks like that 's the price - around 170 ( you found ) to 190 Euros , depending on the airline of your choice and route you take . stats Farecompare has some ' facts ' about this route : Kuban has 5 one stop flights between Yerevan , AM and Moscow , RU . The shortest flight between Yerevan , AM and Moscow , RU on BMI is 3,834 miles . 24 flights per week fly out of Yerevan , AM connecting to Moscow , RU Paris , FR is the most popular connection for one stop flights between Yerevan , AM and Moscow , RU . The smallest aircraft operated by Lufthansa flying between Yerevan , AM and Moscow , RU is a 737 with 126 seats . 15 airlines operate between Yerevan , AM and Moscow , RU Armavia has the most nonstop flights between Yerevan , AM and Moscow , RU . 24,471 seats are available per day to fly out of Yerevan , AM connecting to Moscow , RU
According to the <URL> , the last connection from Helsinki-Vantaa airport T2 to Turku leaves the airport at 22:50 , arriving in Turku at 01:30 . ( There 's also an earlier bus at 21:50 which you 'll likely make if your flight is on time . ) Both also serve T1 ( leaving 10 minutes earlier ) and involve a change of bus at Espoo 's Ikea along the way , but the buses are run by the same company ( Pohjolan Liikenne ) as a guaranteed service , so this should be pretty painless . Should you miss the 22:50 , the next services are at 0:30 AM , 01:25 AM and 03:45 AM . So you 're definitely not going to get stuck at the airport for the night ! There are also other options if you detour via central Helsinki , eg . transferring to a <URL> at Helsinki Central ( last departure 23:00 , but arriving slightly earlier at 01:00 ) and the supercheap <URL> service ( last bus from central Helsinki at 22:45 ) . But if it 's your first time in Helsinki and/or you 're tired after a long flight etc , the direct bus is the easiest option .
Yes , it 's open ! The escalator between the terminal and the station is still not ready ( latest estimate " spring 2016 " ) , but <URL> that connect directly from the walkway between T1/T2 to the station .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
I remember transiting at Zurich Airport a couple of years ago ( both flights on one Swiss ticket ) and arriving airside , so I guess that means yes for you . <URL> It 's not super-clear but I read Arriving Schengen and non-Schengen passengers are handled in separate areas of the Airside Center and reach the Airport Center by different routes , with non-Schengen passengers first passing through immigration controls . as confirming the above . Finally <URL> is in agreement with that .
Yes there are . There are several bus lines that I could find online though I could only find 1 that provides cross border routes : <URL> If you look at their schedule you will find that they have a bus from <URL> and a connecting bus from Punta Arenas to Puerto Natales though I ca n't find the trip duration so it is possible that you may have to spend the night at Puerto Natales .
The cheapest way is to buy two domestic tickets : either Paris -- Hendaye and Irun -- Madrid , or Paris -- Cerbère and Portbou -- Madrid . See below for details . For this kind of questions , in general , <URL> is a useful resource . It is most useful in connection to Interrail , but also useful in general to get an overview of connections . For example , for Paris -- Madrid , it links <URL> . Normally , the best connections is to take the Corail Lunéa from Paris to the Franco-Spanish border at Hendaye/Irun , then take a Spanish domestic train from there . According to Raildude , this connection is currently ( 2013-01-17 ) suspended , but it 's bookable at tgv-europe . com ( see below ) , so I 'm not so sure anymore how good Raildude really is ;) . To find the cheapest option , you have two alternatives : Either find a date that the <URL> is affordable . In a Super reclining seat , it might not have to be as expensive as your quote . I recall some tickets were as cheap as 70 $ , but I do n't find any examples cheaper than the price you quoted right now . Or , probably cheaper , have separate tickets for the French and Spanish legs . This means either a French night train and a Spanish day train , or a French day train , a night at the border , and another Spanish day train . There 's also a Spanish night train to Portugal that you could depart from in the middle of the night , but that 's neither cheap nor comfortable . Inside France , you can use the <URL> to find cheap connections ( day or night ) . Try to search from Paris to Hendaye . Most days the cheapest ticket is 33 $ , but on some days tickets are as cheap as 17 $ . The cheapest ticket is either a seat on a day train , or a seat on a night train . Look carefully from what station in Paris the train departs , because night trains depart from a different station . Inside Spain , consult <URL> . Since you have already selected the date for the French part , you have less flexibility here , but my experience is anyway that ticket prices are less varying in Spain than in France . The interface is in Spanish ; there is an English language interface , but it may be less complete . Renfe.com will normally only list direct trains . Click on Compra de biletes and search Irun to Madrid . Irun -- Hendaye is just 5 km , and most domestic trains continue to the first station across the border , even if domestic train sites do not list this . Check a timetable to be sure . Ida means one way , Ida y vuelta means round trip . For March , I 'm currently finding tickets for as little as $ 16.65 , which would put your total train Paris -- Madrid to potentially less than 35 $ , though more likely around 60 $ since you rarely get the cheapest option for all legs . From the comments below , you may also try Paris -- Figueres and Figueres -- Madrid ( daytime 5 hours ) , or Paris -- Cerbère , Port Bou -- Barcelona , and Barcelona -- Madrid , or , at night , directly Port Bou -- Madrid . The TGV does n't serve Cerbère or Port Bou ( and is therefore not listed in the low-price calendar listed above ) , but can be reached by regional train from Perpignan in 30 minutes , hourly connections from Paris ( check the travel-planner at <URL> . Then the night train Port Bou -- Madrid departs 19.03 , arrival Madrid 07.21 . Unlike international night trains , domestic night trains in Spain are not very expensive . One other alternative : If you 're going from Germany to Spain and back all the way by train , you might want to consider to get an <URL> . You 'll need to buy a 50 % - ticket to and from the border of your own country , but after that you only need reservations . Particularly if you 're in the youth category ( below 26 years old ) that might very well lead to a cheaper journey , with the big advantage that your tickets are flexible , and can be rebooked at ( almost ) no financial cost . Rebooking however can involve long queues at railway stations , particularly in France ...
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
Note : Posting as an answer on Mark 's suggestion Indeed , the deals of ViaRail unfortunately only cover a few itineraries , and usually only between major stops . There are few ways to get a good deal with ViaRail . The main one I know of , for cross-country tourism , is the <URL> . It allows you to travel for 21 days and/or 7 one-way trips ( whichever comes first ) . The pass costs from $ 630 to $ 1100 ( plus tax ) In your case , the trip from Winnipeg to Churchill ( round-trip ) is worth $ 300-370 when bought at full price . As I suppose you do n't live in Winnipeg , you can also use the train to get there . It is purely hypothetical , but then , a round-trip from Toronto is worth over $ 400 , and the pass becomes pretty competitive . Especially as you will probably visit Churchill in low season ( I heard best time is around end of October ) , so the pass price is comparable to the round-trip price from Toronto , so you can add some free train rides to your agenda . To add a bit about the pass conditions : you are allowed 1 stopover for each of the 7 one-way trips . With the pass , you can only have access to seats with supersaver/discounted fares , so book ahead ( but you can cancel any trip before train departure ) .
No . The option you mention is by far the fastest . Fly directly from Zurich to Amsterdam . Swiss has four flights per day . This takes 1h30 . Then take a <URL> from the <URL> to Eindhoven . That 's another 1h30 . There are plenty of ( direct ) trains between Schiphol and Eindhoven . Add the time in between to get luggage , go to the train etc. . And you are done . If you comply to traffic regulations , you wo n't be faster by car ( taxi or rental car ) on the Schiphol-Eindhoven leg . There are also direct flights from Brussels to Zurich . Brussels Airport is a 1h30 drive ( by car ) from Eindhoven . The train takes at least 2h45 and you have to change 2 or 3 times . Cologne and Düsseldorf are even further apart . Maastricht , Rotterdam and Antwerp do not have direct flights to Zurich . And this brings us back to Amsterdam ;-)
I think your friends are rather misinformed . I am unaware of parks closing at any point during the year apart from the occasional holiday or similar occurrence . For example , the Oka national park is open all year round as can be seen here : Parc national d'Oka is open year-round from 8 a.m. until sunset . <URL> Basically , visit the information page of the parks you want to visit beforehand to confirm that it will indeed be open ( they sometimes close for special occasions , but these are rare ) and you will be fine . There is no reason for the national parks to be closed during the color changes . Do keep in mind that , as Michael Seifert mentioned , the colors do not always coincide with the Indian summer . As for where you can visit , I recommend you visit <URL> , but also <URL> and <URL> . The first is not a national park , but both are nearby Montreal ( about 30 minutes by car ) and feature some of the most beautiful scenery in the area . Personally , I prefer Mont-Saint-Hilaire as it is taller and features more rugged terrain , but Mont-Saint-Bruno is perfect for a relaxed hike . Hope you have a beautiful trip !
During the week , the last train from Nice-St-Augustin to Cannes leaves at 21:45 . Given it 's a little fiddly to walk to , that probably means if you 're not out of the airport by 21:30 consider you 've missed it ( unless you 're confident about the way + running + buying tickets etc ) The other main option is the 200 or 210 bus , run by <URL> . You can find the times for that on the <URL> . The last 210 express bus leaves the airport at 20:00 so you 've missed that . However , the 200 has 20:45 and 21:55 departures from the airport ( Terminal 1 only though ) which should see you there if you just miss the last train .
Shamelessly repeating what has already been said in the comments , I would also suggest Dachau . Another option could be Nürnberg and the <URL> . Both places are a bit far but probably doable in a day ( barely ) . If you want something strictly military , you could try to visit some part of the " ligne Maginot " in France like the <URL> . It 's not too far from Zurich but you will definitely need a car for that . Note that many important events or devastating battles did not leave any landmarks or traces you could see today . The main monuments in Dresden or Darmstadt have been rebuilt in the old style , some other cities like Hannover have been completely reshaped after the destruction but there is nothing in particular that evokes WWII . Switzerland itself did not actively participate in WWII but it did mobilize and still has impressive fortifications that were operational at the time ( most of them built earlier ) .
The 35 euro fares are discounted advertised fares that are hard to obtain . Trains between Amsterdam and Paris are more expensive , especially if you have to travel on short notice . A good alternative ( especially if you have time ) is to take the train from Amsterdam to Antwerp , then change trains to the train from Antwerp to Lille . From Lille on you can travel to almost anywhere in France . You really need to ask for this connection , because the railways try to sell as many high speed tickets as possible , just to pay of their high speed investment . From Lille on there are cheaper high speed train connection than the international connections . You can also choose to go for a so called TER connection . If you want to go to Paris for example , you can take the high speed link ( approx . 1 hour ) or you could choose to go take the " slow link " to Maubeuge and switch trains there to Paris ( approx . 4 hours ) .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
SNCF <URL> runs <URL> <URL> between Grenoble and Valence ; the trip takes a little over an hour and the trains run approximately hourly . There are also buses , but they go to Valence TGV far outside the city ; you then have to take another bus into the city . Due to the strike , there is <URL> . At the moment few of the trains are announced to be running but there will be substitution buses for some of the services continuing to Valence-Ville after Valence-TGV . So you can probably make your trip ( except if you were going to take one of the evening services ) , but allow for some delay . Grenoble and Valence are in the same région but in different département and have a train connection . In such cases , it 's rare to have non-SNCF buses . I do n't have authoritative knowledge of this region , but the <URL> does n't list any likely-looking bus lines , nor do any of the département-area sites for Isère and Drôme . While it 's possible that a combination of shorter-hop buses could get you from here to there , it 's likely to end up taking all day ( many of these buses may have no midday service , and they often would n't wait for connections ) -- even if a connection exists in theory , there 'd be a risk that you 'd have to hitch-hike some of the way ( which , incidentally , is a valid option if you are n't in a hurry ) . <URL> only mentions the train and the bus via Valence TGV ( granted , I do n't know how good their coverage of regional buses is ) . So take the train or the bustitution .
A good resource for checking train connections is <URL> . There are often good deals on Europe 's high speed trains , though you might only get a good deal to the south of France , not all the way into Italy . It will be hard to beat a budget flight . Obviously on journey time but also on cost . Book in time and your return journey can be as little as 40 pounds with Easyjet . Still , on <URL> you can see that , apparently , you can get a roundtrip by train from London to Italy for as little as 115 pounds . It 's a long journey , but it 's a good price .
Based on <URL> , I would say that seating on the left side is best . You would be on the lake side in <URL> and <URL> . I do n't recall the first part of the journey ( on the <URL> ) as particularly scenic . Upper level is nice on " Duplex " rolling stock but do note that many Lyria-branded trains are in fact single level . Furthermore , since seating in first class is in a 2 +1 configuration , Club Duo " vis-à-vis " ( face-to-face ) is only available on one side of a given carriage .
end question
start question
What are different waiting list terms used in IRCTC ?
The different types of waiting lists are : GNWL : General Waiting List RLWL : Remote Location Waiting List PQWL : A Pooled Quota Waiting List RLGN : Remote Location General Waiting List RSWL : Roadside Station Waiting List RQWL : Request Waiting List CKWL or Tatkal waiting list An <URL> in trainman.in website explains about these waiting lists as follows : GNWL : General Waiting List ( GNWL ) waitlisted tickets are issued when the passenger begins his/her journey at the originating station of a route or stations close to the originating station . This is most common type of waiting list and has got the highest chances of confirmation . RLWL : Remote Location Waiting List ( RLWL ) means ticket is issued for intermediate stations ( between the originating and terminating stations ) because usually these are the most important towns or cities on that particular route . This type of tickets will be given a separate priority and confirmations will depend on the cancellations of a destination confirmed ticket . Remote location stations prepare there own chart 2-3 hours before the actual departure of train . For this type of ticket there are less chances of confirmation . PQWL : A Pooled Quota Waiting List ( PQWL ) is shared by several small stations . Pooled Quotas normally operate only from the originating station of a route , and there is only one Pooled Quota for the entire run . The Pooled Quota is generally allotted for passengers travelling from the originating station to a station short of the terminating station , or from an intermediate station to the terminating station , or between two intermediate stations . RLGN : Remote Location General Waiting List ( RLGN ) is issued when a user books a ticket where WL quota is RLWL . This means after ticket booking RLWL gets named as RLGN . RSWL : Roadside Station Waiting List ( RSWL ) is allotted when berths or seats are booked by the originating station for journeys up to the road-side station and distance restrictions may not apply . This waiting list has also very less chances of confirmation . RQWL : If a ticket is to be booked from an intermediate station to another intermediate station , and if it is not covered by the general quota or by the remote location quotas or pooled quota , the request for the ticket may go into a Request Waiting List ( RQWL ) . CKWL or Tatkal waiting list : For tatkal tickets , the waiting list issued is CKWL . If tatkal ticket goes up , it directly gets confirmed and does n't go through RAC status unlike GNWL . During chart preparation , general waiting list ( GNWL ) is preferred over tatkal waiting list ( CKWL ) therefore tatkal waitlisted tickets are less likely to get confirmed . Thanks to <URL> for the information .
The answer to all three of your questions is " It depends " . The only way you will get an answer is by asking the owner directly . If it 's beoing offered on AirBNB , then my assumption is that it is being offered much the same as any holiday rental . In that sense , the answer to 1 . can be inferred from if it is advertised as " whole property " or " private room " . 2 wil be at the discretion of the owner , and 3 . is likley to depend on the opinions of the owner and any local legal/regulatory requirements . As the boat is being advertised on AirBnB , my assumption would be that it is being offered in the capacity of accomodation that happens to float , rather than as a watercraft . Again , all the above is an assumption , you will need to contact the owner to know if that really is the case . If you are interested in a holiday on a yacht that moves around , then there are many services out there that offer this . Look for terms like " Flotilla " and " Bareboat " . There are packages both with you as the entire crew , or with an existing crew . It is n't cheap , but it 's also not so expensive as to be for the " 1 % " only . It could certainly be a fun way to visit some mediterranean cities .
Short answer - For any airport with jetways / jetbridge / airbridges , sit as far forward as you can get ! Longer answer - a 777 has 4 doors on each side ( 5 for the 777-300 ) , but in common with almost all planes and airports passengers only ever use the left hand side ones unless something has gone wrong . Those doors are 1L ( at the front ) , 2L ( about row 10-15 , towards the end of business ) , 3L ( just behind the wing ) , and 4L ( at the back ) . ( A 777-300 has 3L just above the wing , 4L a little behind , and 5L at the back ) If there 's only one jetbridge available , it might use 1L , or it might use 2L , depending on the airport , never anything further back . If it 's a dual jetbridge gate , then both 1L and 2L will be used . Typically when using 1L and 2L , boarding is split by class , and disembarking is done with one side of the plane using one door , the other side the other . For that reason , sitting at the front of the left hand side is normally slightly quicker ! The only time the rear door will be used is when steps are used . If steps are used , they 're normally 1L or 2L along with 4L/5L . Steps are only rarely used with a widebody like a 777 , and normally only at smaller airports on ( eg " bucket and spade " airports on mostly tourist routes ) . Otherwise , unless there 's a problem with the gate , at a big airport it 'll be jetbridge at the front .
All flights are subject to schedule changes and yes sometimes it can be by as much as 48 or more hours and yes it is totally legal . You usually have three choices : 1 ) you can accept the new flight schedule ; 2 ) you can ask them to reschedule you on another flight without fee ; 3 ) you can cancel and get a full refund . But these options come with a time limit , after which it will be automatically assumed that you accepted the new flight schedule and the fare 's cancellation / change penalties come into effect . As it seems your trip has not started , there is no compensation due ( unless the PC EU has added a rule about that ) . But this is one of the reasons for purchasing travel insurance .
If we have a look at the " what can you do " section of the 651 ( link <URL> ) it reads Your eVisitor lets you : enter Australia for up to three months during each visit during the 12 months from the date the eVisitor is granted So this seems that you can visit Australia for the next 12 months ( the 12 months start the day the visa is granted ) ; BUT you can stay there for only 3 months every time you go there . If you 're not married and plan to go alone have a look at the 417 too <URL>
It seem that there is but the only way to fly might be a chartered flight . <URL> which supposedly services the airport does n't seem to have any scheduled flights to or from Santiago de Veraguas . The only thing I was able to find are charter planes that are able to go to the airport . Which seems to be confirmed by a <URL> , which states that you can only charter a plane to fly into the Ruben Cantu Airport , the book also gives you some other options of getting to and from Santiago de Veraguas . So your best bet would be to take a bus or rent a car and go to Panama City and then take a flight to Bocas del Toro .
Update 19 July : The <URL> . By now I assume that most flights to Turkey operate as scheduled , but it is best to check before flying . You should still consider travel advice from your government . <URL> still is at the same level , with the threats now more due to terrorism than the attempted coup : The attempted coup in Turkey has failed and the situation is normalising . Localised military activity continues . Airport operations in Istanbul and Ankara are returning to normal , with additional security measures in place . Airports are very crowded . We recommend you confirm your travel arrangements before travelling to the airport . You should continue to avoid unnecessary travel , large gatherings and demonstrations . and the latest update as of today : Travellers are reminded of the high threat of terrorism in Turkey . We continue to receive information that indicates that terrorists may be planning attacks in Turkey which could take place at any time . Further attacks in urban centres are expected . It is likely some attacks will target western interests , including tourists . Due to the high threat of terrorist attack , we recommend you reconsider your need to travel to Ankara and Istanbul . Across Turkey , you should exercise heightened caution and be vigilant to your personal safety and surroundings . The level of our advice has not changed . Update 16 July : <URL> We strongly advise you to stay indoors , avoid public places , in particular demonstrations , and remain vigilant . And <URL> ( applies to citizens of all countries IMHO , emphasis mine ) : The security situation in Turkey , particularly in Ankara and Istanbul , remains tense . You should stay indoors and avoid unnecessary travel . The security situation may be fluid for some time . Ataturk international airport and Sabiha Gokcen international airport in Istanbul have resumed limited operations although delays and possibly flight diversions are likely . All inbound and outbound flights at Esenboga airport in Ankara have been cancelled until 1800 local time . You should contact your airline or travel agent for information about your travel arrangements , including connecting flights , but in the meantime suggest you avoid gathering at Ataturk Airport until confirmation of resumption of normal service . Avoid any large gatherings or demonstrations . The President has urged all citizens to show support for democracy on the streets in major cities on the evening of 16 July . Australians should avoid any such gathering . We continue to advise Australians to exercise a high degree of caution in Turkey overall and to reconsider their need to travel to Istanbul and Ankara . Higher levels apply in some , other parts of Turkey . Many airlines have cancelled flights , e.g. . <URL> Lufthansa has cancelled all flights between Frankfurt and Istanbul , as well as , all flights between Munich and Turkey for today 16 July 2016 for security reasons . Our connections between Frankfurt and Antalya , as well as , the flight v.v. Frankfurt-Bodrum will be operated as planned . US airlines are not allowed to fly in our out of Istanbul and Ankara airports as of yesterday : Per the Federal Aviation Administration 's notice to airmen ( NOTAM ) dated July 15 , 2016 , U.S. airline carriers are prohibited from flying to or from Istanbul and Ankara airports . All airline carriers , regardless of country of registry , are prohibited from flying into the United States from Turkey either directly or via third country . and see <URL> I do not have an overview but apparently some flights are going in and out of Istanbul again , mostly with Turkish Airlines . If you were scheduled to travel , contact your airline . Turkish has published <URL> Old post as of 15 July : As usual <URL> are the best source of info for flights into Istanbul . Check there for the latest info buried in discussions . Apparently as of now at least some flights of Turkish Airlines are still landing at IST while those of foreign carriers are diverted to other airports . BBC reports the airport ( IST I assume ) to be closed . Travel advice for people in Turkey would be to stay put wherever you are and keep out of trouble . As of the <URL> : The U.S. State Department said Americans in Turkey should shelter indoors .
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
The <URL> has a page about your rights to camp in Iceland . Camping with no more than three tents is allowed on uncultivated ground for a single night , unless the landowner has posted a notice to the contrary . However , campers should always use designated campsites where they do exist . Do not camp close to farms without permission . If a group of more than three tents is involved , these campers must seek permission from the landowner before setting up camp outside marked campsite areas . So , if there is no sign , and the land is n't being used to grow things , you have the right to camp there for one night . That is pretty much all the law says . So , yes you can camp at the side of the road , IF there is a place to park your car . You should not park your car on the land . Do not drive off the road or track . Motor vehicles can leave marks that last for generations . Driving off roads or tracks is against the law except when the ground is frozen and covered in snow . See further information under " Practical Information/Driving in Iceland " . Staying away from houses is just a basic courtesy . The best rule of thumb to follow in my experience is to never be close enough that you can see anything in the windows , and definitely stay away from gardens and obviously enclosed personal space . 300 meters at the minimum . Sources : <URL> my own personal experiences camping in the wild in Iceland , Sweden and Finland .
Dining cars are present on almost every long-distance train . They offer rather good food ( although I have little experience to compare it to European trains ) , though I would not expect much delicacies , just a good food of a middle-range city restaurant . Specifically for Baikal fish , I doubt it , except probably when you travel near Baikal itself . In addition to restaurant cars you can also buy basic snacks from a conductor at your car , and sometimes a waiter from a restaurant car would go through the train offering snacks to passengers . At the same time , as many have mentioned here , on every station where the train stops for at least 20 minutes1 , there usually will be locals selling food to you right from the platform . The quality of that food varies a lot ( with no medical control etc. ) , but it is indeed a chance to try a good local food . I have never traveled near Baikal , but I 've been once in Karelia , and a great choice of cooked ( smoked etc. ) fish was available . However , I think this might depend on a season . Apart from these local specialties , locals will be selling mostly basic food appealing for low-class travelers trying to eat as cheap as possible . Sometimes these locals will even buy a ticket from one station to a neighbor one and walk through train offering their products , so you might even not need to walk out . Also note that you can buy tickets with meals included , but this usually starts from 2nd class . On a short trip ( 1 night and shorter ) this will be just several snacks and some drink , but on longer trains they can bring some basic hot food from the dining car directly to your compartment . When booking a ticket , look for label like " У2 " in the carriage class field . " У " stands for " услуги " ( " services " -- meals , and also includes a few newspapers etc. ) , while the number stands for the number of meals included . The boilers are available in every sleeping car , except for some exceptional circumstances such as boiler malfunctioning or running out of water . Not that these are unheard of , but rather rare , and most probable it will be OK to go to another carriage and use their boiler in such a case . The water quality might be not the best , and personally I dislike it and try to avoid , but many people do drink it . The biggest concern is not sanitary problems , but just some metallic smell etc. . Also a bigger problem might be lack of cold ( well , room-temperature ) drinking water ; you may find that boiling water is the only drinkable water you can get . It is a good idea to have a bottle or two of drinking water with you . Also note that there are different train types in Russia . The best are so-called " firmenny " trains ( фирменный поезд ) , or the " premium " ( " премиум " ) introduced several years ago . They have all the facilities ( from restaurant cars to 3rd class carriages and toilets ) much better than other trains , but the tickets are also more expensive for the same class . At the other end , during high season ( summer ) you might see temporary trains assigned for just a couple of months . They are usually compiled of different old carriages and may have many different problems ; I even am not quite sure whether they have a dining car at all . A rough rule of thumb is the less is the official designated number of train/route ( you see it when you book the tickets ) , the better is the train : trains from 1 to approx . 150 are firmenny trains , while those temporary trains are usually assigned numbers at about 800 and above . Intermediate numbers and trains also exist . 1 Such stations are usually every several hours of train trip . And yes , even if the train comes to the station in dead night , some locals still probably will be there .
I suspect this is a result of Jet streams . This is most commonly observed by different flight times between the same cities . It generally takes longer ( 25 % or so ) to fly from Europe to the U.S. than from the U.S. to Europe . This is because the high-altitude jet streams across the Atlantic blow from west to east , providing a boost in one direction , and a penalty in the other . You can read a bit more about it <URL> , as well as many other places on google . The jet stream will either improve fuel efficiency and flight time , or hurt it , depending on whether the aircraft is flying with or against the wind . To help compensate for jet streams , routes are often altered one way or the other , to provide for the most efficient travel . This can lead to drastically different miles flown , as well . On aircraft equipped with flight status monitors , you may notice the discrepancy between two flights . Unfortunately , I doubt this will ever affect your frequent flier miles :) This would easily explain a difference in carbon emissions .
Ultimately there is no penalty for writing the country name wrong on your Immigration form . The list is there to allow the immigration officer quickly determine if any secondary questions should be asked or to inform customs that perhaps a secondary inspection might be warranted ( often used by Agriculture Department to route people for Ag Inspections ) . Since Crimea currently is sort of a no man 's land when it comes to being officially recognized , I would just write down Crimea by itself . If the Immigration officer feels it should be written as Ukraine or something else , they will either change it for you or ask you to update the form . They will likely be more concerned as to why you were in Crimea , rather than how you wrote it on your form .
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
Without specific permission from a land owner the only type of trail you can use is a Byway . These are strictly speaking roads , but tend to be used primarily for recreation by the public , and are generally maintained as farm tracks . Some are designated as a restricted byway that do not allow powered vehicles . Byways are shown on <URL> Explorer maps as a long dashed green line , and as a long pink dashed line on landranger maps .
Since I got an answer to my inquiry to eurail/interrail and it is too long to post in a comment I will put it here as an answer : Thank you for your email to Eurail.Com Customer Service . Yes , as a rail passenger , you are entitled to several rights according to the European Union Law . You can find more information on the page of the European Commission : <URL> You can also find the European Union regulations on : <URL> Since the Eurail Pass entitles you to use the train in Europe , you are of course protected by the EU law when you will be traveling with your Eurail Pass . I believe this boils down to the same regulations and rules that was stated in the original question , but I did not have time to go through it all to make sure . However I do find the links provided by the eurail/interrail customer service to be a lot easier to read than the actual regulation texts , which is why I have posted them here . Also note that the first link also has maritime and air travel rights information .
If you have a GSM phone ( with a SIM-card ) , <URL> is likely to work in many places ( see the list in the link ) . Note that it will work whether you 're roaming , or do n't have a SIM in the phone at all and the phone is locked . That 's basically the only number you 're guaranteed by the GSM standard to always be able to dial , and the mobile operators are required to redirect it to whatever it locally should be .
I visited last year . My pure understanding of the law there obviously is n't perfect as an outsider , but the following of the ' law ' seemed very rough , women would wear a covering , but sometimes only over the bob of a pony-tail , for example . However , if in a place of business , eg a hotel or restaurant , you 'd regularly see proprietors or staff quickly address a woman who had had her hijab slip back or off a bit too far , usually apologetically - they did n't want to get into trouble themselves . There was a variety - you 'd see headscarves , niqabs and hijabs , but the basic rule seemed to be - cover most of your hair , or get told off . This was in public , however , in the privacy of people 's houses , these rules seemed to vanish .
Airlines wet lease aircraft all the time ( wet lease being a lease that includes crew , maintenance , pilots , etc versus a dry lease which is aircraft only ) . If the lease is long term , then often the plane is painted to match the leasing airline 's look and flight crews are provided with uniforms . But if the lease is short term , say filling the need for an increase in flights during a certain season or perhaps a delay in delivery of a new aircraft , then the aircraft may not be repainted .
From the airline 's point of view , each of your bookings is a separate entity and in this scenario only one of you has been upgraded . Likewise from the airline 's point of view only the upgraded passenger has permission to be in the business class cabin . So technically the answer is NO . But there is no harm in asking if you can swap seats partway through the flight . Cabin attendants have some leeway to allow such a swap .
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
end question
start question
The first time in Canada : Montreal , Toronto or Ottawa ?
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
Not my region ( lavender is mostly found in Provence , but there are occasional fields in other regions ) , so I need to rely on <URL> . Lavender flowers from late June to late August . It is typically harvested well before the flower wilts , because the heat makes the essence rise towards the flower 's glands , so the plant 's aroma becomes less strong as the summer goes by . The exact harvest time varies from region to region ( and of course with the year 's weather ) ; looking around on the Internet , I see dates ranging from mid-July to mid-August ; for example there are <URL> from the third Sunday in July to the 15th of August ; the harvest tends to be earlier in the Drôme region .
Yes , flight departure times for normal passenger flights are always shown in official local time , which follows DST changes according to the local rules .
From experience with two successful Canadian vistior visa applications at the Moscow office : I 've provided scans of original ( Russian ) documents , plus translations . Everything was combined into one PDF file ( actually one file per section of the application , with a short table of contents for the longer sections ) . Most of the translations were just separately-typed Word documents . However , for some documents which had a lot of information but only some of the information was relevant ( e.g. paystubs ) , I used the " balloon " method .
It should be no problem . The convenience store will have an arrangement with the bus company to receive their passengers . They know that a good portion of them will buy things , but there is no requirement for you to spend money there . Also keep in mind that at most of these stops , the buses will refuel . This means a portion of your ticket price actually is going to the gas station , so you are ( indirectly ) a customer anyway . Contrary to @Tom 's comment above , I have never seen a designated waiting area in such places in the US or Mexico . Perhaps Canada is different , but I would be surprised if they are different , unless there is a law mandating a designated waiting area for such passengers . If I were the owner of such a store , I would not want a designated waiting area . I would want the bored , waiting passengers to walk around my store , in hopes that they find something they want to buy -- as long as they are n't obstructing other customers .
Web site of Istanbul city buses is <URL> ( in turkish ) . To the left , there is a form labelled " Hat Arama " . Typing 83O in this form , then clicking on " Saat " button below gives timetable for this line . Copy/paste the ( long ) URL to Google translation gives first departure from Taksim at 6:50 AM .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
As they are separate countries , you will indeed need two visas - one for Canada , and one for the US . You will need to apply for each one separately . As Algeria is NOT one of the countries eligible for the US <URL> , you 'll need to apply for a visa in advance - <URL> . To get a visa , you 'll need to fill out an application from the Canadian embassy in Algeria for Canada , and the US Embassy for the United States visa . These quite often take time to process , so try and do it as soon as you know when you 're travelling - do n't leave them to the last minute !
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
Well , as you can tell if you 're in Vancouver , the North Shore did n't really get winter this year . The <URL> is just east of the Grouse Grind and starts from the same parking lot - it 's also a way better hiking trail . The Grind is basically a staircase in the forest and it 's name is well-earned . If you do n't feel like hiking the trail both ways you can always take the gondola down . Alternatively , you could take the gondola to the top of Grouse Mountain and do some hiking at the top as there is very little snow right now . <URL> is a favorite . If you 're feeling adventurous you can do both the BCMC and Goat Mountain and ride the gondola down after the return from Goat . As for the rating scale you posted you wo n't find much above the T3 level on the North Shore . <URL> ( great view ) would also be a good hike right now . It was icy in January , but most of it has melted since then . There are other hikes of varying difficulty in <URL> that might interest you as well .
You do not need two separate transit visas . When you apply for your transit visa , provide your entire itinerary , noting that you hope to transit twice through Toronto . If the visa is approved , they will give you at least a dual-entry transit visa . Applying for a tourist visa for the time you 're in Japan would only confuse matters . Since you wo n't be in Canada for that time , it would not be right to ask for a Canadian visa , and your application would likely be refused . As to the US leg not requiring a visa , there 's no such exemption . US permanent residents are exempt from the Canadian visa requirement , but since you hold a US visa you must not be a US permanent resident . Some European countries have an exemption for airport transit visas when the traveler holds a valid US visa , but Canada does not have a similar policy .
There is no Terminal 2 . Terminals are assigned by airline , not by destination . There are divisions within each terminal for destination , but you start at the desk for your airline . Transat uses Terminal 3 . You can get this information for any airline from <URL> . If you are being driven to the airport by a paid professional ( taxi , shuttle bus etc ) , do n't tell them to take you to Terminal 3 . They might drop you at the wrong end or have to ask you more questions . Instead , tell them " Air Transat International " and they will take you to just the right place .
1 ) You can have them mailed to someone else 's address , maybe where you 're staying or if you know anyone in town . There 's also a cosubscriber option you can benefit from if you know someone in town who has one . You can also not subscribe and pay per ride , you do n't need keys in that case . 2 ) If you only need 2 weeks ' worth of biking , you might want to look at pay per use , it depends on how often you 'll need it so I ca n't say if you 're better off . Be aware though that Quebec City has its own network , and that even if you 're subscribed to the monthly plan you still pay extra if the ride exceeds 45min <URL> , which makes taking the bike out of town a pretty bad idea . 3 ) Highly subjective , but keep in mind they were designed as a quick way to go from A to B , not as a way to stroll around town . They 're pretty heavy to deter theft too . The system is pretty reliable though , there 's stations all over town and defective bikes are usually replaced quickly . In my own experience I can say some stations more uphill tend to be emptier because people usually leave them downtown instead
You and your passport and your boarding pass will be checked by <URL> , as they 're the ones who run the " <URL> " . They need to verify you are actually departing from YUL to the EU . The airport 's <URL> do n't actually show the counter , but there 's <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> .
There are actually a number of different questions there , and while I ca n't tackle all of them I can take a stab at a few ... In terms of getting into London , it depends which bit you want to go to . For South West London , which does contain a few of the Olympic venues , as well as a number of parks , your best bet is a local bus . The roads between Heathrow and London are pretty busy if you 're not allowed to use the Olympic lanes , but for getting to the parks / gardens / etc in SW London that should n't be an issue . If you want to get into the centre of London , you can either head into Paddington by train ( Heathrow Express is quick but expensive , Heathrow Connect is cheaper but slower ) , or take the Piccadilly Line ( Underground/Tube ) to a variety of places . The Piccadilly line is valid with a travel card , while the train needs a supplement ( Heathrow owns the spur of railway line so has it 's own fares ) . The tube takes a little longer , but is more frequent , and may well be better for you . Get a one day travel card ( either paper , or on an Oyster card , pros and cons for a single day ever visitor but that 's a different question ! ) , then hop onto the tube and visit wherever you want . Heathrow being busy wise - the busy bit is likely to be immigration , but the day before the opening ceremony I think that everyone who could work will be , so there hopefully wo n't be too long queues . If you stay airside in transit , you wo n't have to clear immigration , just a security check . However , with 10 hours I do n't think that 's an issue . Coming back , you say you 're on BA , so at Terminal 5 ( T5 ) you need to clear Conformance no later than 35 minutes minutes before your flight . Conformance is the passport/boarding card check before security , which may have a small queue ( depends ) . Most people will be coming into Heathrow that day , not going out , so I would n't expect this to be a big issue , but make sure you 're back from London in plenty of time ! Time the tube going in , then add 50 % more just to be sure , and aim to be back at T5 no less than an hour before and you ought to be fine . With a 10 hours layover , I do n't see why you could n't have a good 6 hours in the centre of London , or 7 in SW London . In terms of what you 'll be able to see , be that at the main stadium , the tail end of the Olympic Torch Relay , or one of the many other venues around London , I 'll leave someone else to answer !
I have no first-hand experience , but taking the <URL> looks like a nice option . The trip takes slightly more than 3 hours , and quoting Via Rail 's <URL> , there are " five departures every weekday from both Montréal and Québec City , and three departures on Saturdays and Sundays " . It looks like <URL> wo n't be a problem either . Regarding the price : one-way trip in economy class costs C$ 81 , booked the same day . But if you book in advance , you can get it at C$ 72 ( " discounted " ) , C$ 52 ( " supersaver " ) or even C$ 29 ( " escape " - web only &amp; limited availability ) . More details when you click " Compare " on the booking page . Edit : The bus option does n't look bad either . It also takes a bit more than 3 hours from downtown to downtown , and ( with a quick look ) costs about C$ 50 if booked the same day . One advantage with buses is that there tons of departures every day . For example , <URL> , one of the major operators , has some 20 daily departures between 06:00 and 23:00 . To me , both train and bus definitely seem viable options -- I guess it 's a matter of taste which one you should choose .
When you enter one of the three micro-states , the Schengen 90 day clock pauses during your time there . It resumes when you exit the micro-state and reenter the Schengen zone . Also , you can not ' refresh ' your Schengen clock in the micro-states because they have local rules that act to prevent it . In San Marino for example , foreigners staying longer than 30 days must apply for a residence permit and these are not given to visitors . But indeed , each day in a micro-state is a day out of the zone and the 90/180 rule is affected accordingly . Problems will arise when the visitor ultimately leaves the zone and must undergo a Schengen exit inspection . At this point the person may be asked to prove that they are not an overstayer and the border guard will be entitled to see hard evidence in the form of official documentation . There was a case where an individual attempted to show that his mobile phone registered to a tower outside of the zone and this failed obviously : radio waves have no respect for nation borders but also one could mail the SIM card to a friend in a far away land , put in a phone where it registers to the tower and then mail it back . Apparently hotel receipts can be too easily forged to be successful as evidence . What the border guard will want to see is a passport stamp from the local constabulary . But the constabulary is under no obligation to issue one , so success is down to personal impact and articulation skills . Source : Question put directly to <URL> 6 June 2016 , ( <URL> ) . Your questions ... Also , according to the article , Andorra seems to do have immigration borders ... So , for example , if I am a US citizen , will going to Andorra , stop the Schengen visit Per the above , yes if you go to Andorra the Schengen clock is paused . ( meaning there will be an exit stamp on your passport ) ? In the normal case you will have no exit stamp and be unable to provide satisfactory evidence of your time in and out of the zone . As explained you can approach the local constabulary and TRY to get the entry and exit stamps you need .
Since there is only eight hours of daylight in London in January I would suggest you take the afternoon class . If you take the morning class then most of the daylight hours will taken up studying inside . It is probably safer and more enjoyable to wander around an unfamiliar city during daylight . For typical sunrise / sunset hourse see : <URL>
Yes . When you land in DF , you will be required to clear immigration and customs with all of your luggage , then re-check any checked bags , and re-clear security . I have done this before , and my girlfriend just did it last week ( LHR - > MEX - > GDL ) . When things are running smoothly , it should n't take more than an hour to do all of that . But if you have checked luggage , and there is a delay in unloading the luggage , for instance , or it 's a particularly busy time of day , it make take longer . It 's always better to plan on the side of too much time than too little , IMO . I would want at least 2 hours between flights , and would feel more comfortable with 3 . More than 4 and you 'll just be killing time ( although I have learned not to mind that , if I carry a good book ) . Also keep in mind that MEX is a large airport , and depending on where your arrival and departure gates are located , you may spend as much as 20-30 minutes just walking between gates .
I spent a month in Sri Lanka this year and took a few trains while there . All were on time arriving and departing . However , this is anecdotal evidence and not really much use to you . I would guess that I was just lucky based on statements such as this : " Issues of travel time , reliability , and comfort caused it to lose much of its market share of passenger transport . By 2011 , its share of the market was only seven percent . [ 4 ] " ( <URL> ) and this : " The rail system in Sri Lanka is not punctual and also for some routes the train can be slower than travelling by road . Delays are common . " ( <URL> ) However , all that said I would still take the small risk of a delay and travel by train whenever possible in Sri Lanka . The roads are truly terrible and the traffic is some of the worst I 've seen in any developing country in the world . In general the bus journeys that we took were uncomfortable , unpleasant , and seriously delayed ( usually by traffic in and around Colombo ) , so really the train is your best option if there is one available . Hope this helps .
end question
start question
What happens when you book a flight to a country you do n't have a visa for ?
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
AFAIK , it does not work that way , it is not a type of discount that you get at a counter by showing a seaman 's book or ID . These kind of discounts are usually given to seamen by their companies ( ship owners ) , the company will contact the airline and get a special discount . This is used when the shipping company needs to move crew from one area to another , to operate a different ship or when moving seamen back to their ships after leaves . One more thing , this is usually done by arranging bilateral agreements between shipping companies and airlines , it is not a guaranteed benefit . This kind of agreements do exist not only with ships companies , but also it can happen with major companies , I have seen oil companies with such benefits , but again , it is not something the employee can get by himself , it has to be done at company level .
You do not have to use the body scanner for TSA Pre-Check . Most of the time they do n't even have the body scanner in that line . And when I go to an airport that does n't have a separate TSA pre-check line , like LGA in NY , they give you a card that says TSA pre-check and they send you through the metal detector . Even if you do n't have pre-check you can opt not to go through the scanner , but then they pat you down . If you do n't have it and are thinking about getting it I highly recommend it . Do n't have to take your shoes off or anything . So much easier . Like the old days of traveling . As a side note , when you think about it , you ca n't go through the body scanner if you have pre-check , because you have your shoes on and possibly things in your pockets so the body scan will always fail .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
Obviously , the best book for you depends a lot on what you are looking for . Many criteria are to be taken into account : the place ( s ) you 'll go to : some books will cover only the capital , other will cover the main cities and other will cover the countryside as well . the duration of your trip ( many books are explicitely for trips of a couple of days ) the kind of tourist you are : what are you really looking for ( cultural visits , natural landscapes , relaxation ) how much are you willing to spend on your trip ( many books are for backbackers and might be irrelevant for a family trip ) : the transportation , the places to sleep/drink/eat / visit and the can be really different how much cultural background you want to know : a few small sentences in the foreign language ; the whole history of the country ; a description of the culture you 'll be living in . All those things can make a difference and might or might not be relevant to you how you want to use your guide : read the whole thing before the trip , open it at random once you are there , etc how you want to find the information in your guide : sorted by city/price/type of activity many other things In any case , if you are in the shop , it 's worth opening the different books to see if they really talk about what you are looking for and if it seems good to you ( which is mostly of matter of personal preferences ) . If you are front of your computer , you can still have a look at the readers reviews ( on Amazon for instance ) even if it might not be really accurate as one usually tries only one guide per trip/destination . Finally , after a while , you might get used to a specific type of guide and feel more comfortable with it . As for me , I 'm really used to the " Guides du Routard " ( French collection ) and I 'm not really fond of the " Lonely Planet " .
Most commercial campgrounds have office hours and tend not to be open real late , say 8 or 9pm . But if you have a reservation and have n't checked in by closing time , they will put a note on the office door telling you which campsite is yours and requesting you to come check in after they open in the morning . A fair number of campgrounds will allow you to simply choose a campsite , if you arrive without a booking after hours , and then come pay in the morning . The drawback however is you may not have the passcode to enter the restrooms or showers .
Checked : any one that you like . Carry-on : nothing with a knife/knife-like/blade for <URL> . <URL> , you can generally get away with something that has a blade less than 4 " . Practical : I commuted between Sydney and USA ( Texas ) every 6 - 8 weeks for three years , making dozens of trips . I had a Swiss Army Card with the file attachment removed . About 18 months into traveling , Australian airport security confiscated it , on the basis that the ( very , very small ) scissors blade represented a weapon . All of the <URL> have a blade , scissor , or blade-like implement . Your only option would be to check it or selectively remove items prior to traveling with it as your carry-on . Otherwise you risk having it confiscated . However , there 's at least a decent chance you 'll get away with it .
Well , let 's look at whether it 's possible first , to be <URL> . You 'll want to enter one of the cars that 's empty , obviously , otherwise you run into other problems ( being accused of tampering or theft ) . This means you 'll want to do so out of sight . You could do this along the tracks , if you know the train stops at a signal , or in the changing yard - both tricky , and the latter probably trespassing - given you 're not allowed off passenger platforms by law . Metafilter has a <URL> , but repeats time and again - if you get caught , you 're in trouble . Not " we 'll kick you off the train " trouble , but we 're talking arrests . Possible charges include : Tickets ( fines ) Warrants WILL be issued if you do n't pay the fines in the county issued wilful trespassing ( train tracks and yards are federal property , so you WILL get charged ) breaking and entering ( although if it 's unlocked and open you could probably contests that one in court ) It also amuses me that <URL> exists ... Another thing to remember , from anecdotal experience . Two friends and myself were on an overnight train from Bucharest , Romania to Istanbul , Turkey . The train was fairly full , and we wandered through looking for more space . We found three empty boxcars at the back . We have NO problem with lack of comfort , but we thought space could be pretty good . It then turned out we 'd been allocated two seats each somehow ( they seemed to actually have a backpacker class ) so gave up on that idea and enjoyed our seats . Mid-way through the night we stopped in Bulgaria to change engines . We got off , and then realised what could have gone horribly wrong - the boxcars were no longer attached , and had long since gone somewhere else ...
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
Depends where you are coming from , and how to get to that transit country . If you come by air , you can go form Australia or Chile . More people however seem to come by boat . Most boats leave from New Zealand , Argentina , Chile or Australia . I would decide between those 4 depending where is the easiest to get a Visa , and then search for operators through those specific countries . I would not assume that you can just transit through the country without a visa , since you will have to stop over at those places to get equipment , change from airplane to boat etc , so you will have to go through immigration . If you travel by plane only even you will have the same issue because most of the airplanes going there are cargo , research or military planes that do not work like normal passenger airplanes with a switch on the airport . <URL> .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : All foreigners , required or not to obtain a short stay visa , who wish to enter France must have a 30.000 Euros health insurance that covers all Schengen territory . " Strange that the same requirement is not mentioned in the <URL> . The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : To reduce risks or delays in the border it is advisable to : Hire an international insurance , valid for Europe during the period of stay in the Schengen territory with a coverage of at least $ 30.000,00 for medical or hospital expenses . Even though it is not mandatory for entrance in the Netherlands , some other countries in the Schengen territory require this insurance . Additionally , I looked a few other ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) embassies sites in Brazil and none of them mention the health insurance requirement Besides that , it is common sense in Brazil that a Brazilian who wish to travel to Europe , must have this 30.000 EUR health insurance . For instance , credit cards like <URL> or <URL> advise that they will give such insurance if the airline tickets are bought using the credit card . A few travel forums and sites like <URL> ( backpackers ) or <URL> ( talking about travel ) also mention the need to have such health insurance . All in all , it 's hard to say if the health insurance is really mandatory or no . Evidences suggest it is not for brazilians , besides the common sense , but I just ca n't be sure .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
No , you only have to provide the itinerary for your first trip , as well as a justification for why you need a multi-entry visa . E.g. here 's what the <URL> says about multi-entry visas : Multiple-entry visas may be issued with a period of validity between six months and five years , where the following conditions are met : ( a ) The applicant proves the need or justifies the intention to travel frequently and/or regularly , in particular due to his occupational or family status , such as business persons , civil servants engaged in regular official contacts with Member States , and EU institutions , representatives of civil society organisations travelling for the purpose of educational training , seminars and conferences , family members of citizens of the Union , family members of third-country nationals legally residing in Member States and seafarers ; and ( b ) The applicant proves his integrity and reliability , in particular the lawful use of previous uniform visas or visas with limited territorial validity , his economic situation in the country of origin and his genuine intention to leave the territory of the Member States before the expiry of the visa applied for . Otherwise the requirements for applying for a multi-entry visa are exactly the same .
The point of it is to show that you 've got a plan and know how much it 's going to cost you etc. . They want to know WHY you 're going . They already know how ( train/plane ) but want the details . SO if you can show that you 're headed to France for 3 weeks to check out war memorials , before crossing to Amsterdam for some fun and out through Munich for Octoberfest , and have hostel bookings and the like , it shows that you 've thought about it and have some idea of what you 're doing , where you 're going and maybe how you 're going to survive ( accommodation etc ) . For example , <URL> will suggest that you put together a travel plan . This could consist of the itinerary of your tour ( if you 're doing one ) , or otherwise - your accommodation , health insurance . Again , <URL> demands if you 're booking through them that you include accommodation for every single night of your stay in the region , but I 've had friends who have been issued visas without doing that . Generally , however , as per <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , they 'll insist that you provide : proof of accommodation for the duration of your stay proof of travel + health insurance proof of funds for the duration of your stay Indeed , the <URL> suggests you need documented evidence of : Round trip reservation or itinerary with dates and flight numbers specifying entry and exit from Schengen state . Some Schengen authorities accept the itinerary when applying for the visa but request the original air - ticket when visa is collected ( please verify ) . Proof of sufficient funds for duration of stay , ( Bank statement of the past three months ) ( min . amount required is different in each country -- please verify with the relevant consular authority ) Cash will not be accepted as proof of foreign exchange . Travel/health/accident insurance : a one-page document stating that the applicant is covered by a Schengen Travel Medical Insurance , i.e. minimum medical coverage of the Rand equivalent of Euro 30.000 for all medical expenses , including repatriation dead or alive , occurring in any Schengen country . Accommodation : confirmed hotel reservation is requested ( hotel vouchers are not necessarily proof of confirmed hotel booking ) . If applicant is staying with a relative or friend , the relevant authorities may request invitation letter from the host with copy of his passport or ID . Authentication of this document by the relevant authorities may be requested . In case of a pre-paid tour please provide us details of the tour with a proof of payment to the tour operator .
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
I do n't see anywhere on the <URL> that they do n't or wo n't do visas for citizens of other countries . As a matter of fact if you look at the <URL> you will see that they still do B1 and B2 visas with full application so that means that you can apply for a visa in Stockholm even though you are not a Swedish citizen just read the requirements in the <URL> and <URL> to see what you need to get a visa .
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
end question
start question
UK train , ticket price for a single journey is the same price as a return ticket ?
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
It depends . I 've entered it several times . Inevitably I 'm asked about my travel plans , and I explain my trip . Sometimes they 've asked how and when I 'm leaving Canada . Only on two occasions have they asked to see evidence of said trip . But they have asked , and have the right to ask . In addition , many airlines will refuse to carry you to a country ( eg Canada ) if you do n't have an exit ticket as well . Simple solution if you do n't have one yet - buy a refundable plane ticket , or a megabus/greyhound ticket from Vancouver to Seattle or Toronto to Buffalo .
<URL> , the price starts to skyrocket 30 days before the departure date . Quoting it , [ Within 29 days ] the increase began to accelerate and once you were within 14 days the fares really shot up dramatically . Their graph :
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
<URL> lists two motorcycle rental locations in Myanmar together with a location map , although I 'm not sure if it 's accurate . <URL> offers scooters starting from approximately <URL> . <URL> offers scooters starting from approximately <URL> . A three year old <URL> on lonely planet claims that hiring motorcycles is illegal for tourists in Myanmar as does <URL> on Trip advisor . <URL> provides useful information on motorcycling in Myanmar and mentions that using motorbikes is only illegal in some areas : If you are after the freedom of the road , many parts of Myanmar are best explored by motorbike . Self drive car hire is not possible , so motorbikes offer you the chance to take long-distance trips on your own schedule , and allow you access to remote parts of Myanmar that often have rough roads . In most parts of the country motorbikes are simple and cheap to hire , usually costing around K10 ,000 per day . Most large - and medium-sized towns ( and all major tourist spots , other than Bagan ) offer motorbike hire ; it is usually simplest to ask at your hotel or guest house . Using motorbikes in Yangon is illegal ( some locals are granted a special permit ) . Using motorbikes in Bagan is not permitted for foreigners ( but e-bikes and bicycles are allowed ) . You might be advised to check into the legal situation and cofirm whether or not you will be insured in such a case .
I have now made the trip and can therefore answer my own question . Yes , they do let you take the earlier Thalys train , but you will not have a seat reservation , so the trip may be less comfortable . Taking the earlier train may be seen as a trade-off between time and comfort . Getting to the earlier train in time was easy as I suspected . It took me less than 10 minutes to get off my plane , walk to the station , pick up my ticket at the NS desk and go down to the platform . I believe I would have been able to make it in time even with a slight delay and/or checked-in luggage . Both the guy at the ticket counter and the staff at the platform told me that I would be allowed on the earlier train if it was not full . The staff on the train told me that there would be no empty seats for part of the trip , but that I could always stand in the restaurant car . I was able to sit down from Schiphol to Rotterdam and from Antwerp to Brussels , but on the Rotterdam-Antwerp leg all seats were reserved and occupied , so I had to stand in the restaurant car for roughly a third of the trip . There were 4 of us standing there , so I was not the only one lacking a seat reservation . I got the impression that this was standard practice and that they would normally always let you on the earlier train , but that there was no explicit guarantee . I can imagine that they reserve the right to decline if for instance the train gets really packed . It was definitely worth it for me to take the earlier train , since I was on a tight schedule and I really did n't mind standing for part of the trip . On the other hand , if you ´ re not in a hurry and you do n't mind spending an extra hour in Schiphol , having a seat reservation would probably make your train ride more enjoyable . Taking the earlier train probably does n't always mean that you have to stand for part of the trip , and you can always ask before you get on if it means you will have to stand .
To directly answer the title question , yes , non-business travelers can absolutely benefit from airline loyalty programs ( i.e. earning points/miles as well as status . ) Whether it 's worth it for you in particular , though , will be extremely dependent on your particular situation and what options are available to you on the routes you normally fly , as well as whether you typically need to take luggage , etc. . Since specific examples were requested , I 'll use myself as an example . I live in the Southeast U.S. and fly round-trips within the U.S. typically a few times per year and inter-continental round-trips about once a year . While there are sometimes slightly cheaper advertised fares to my domestic destinations on some of the very-low-cost airlines , by the time I add all of the fees and other associated costs of flying one of those airlines , they would often end up costing as much or more than Southwest or Delta . This is especially true due to the fact that the very-low-cost airlines usually have infrequent flight schedules that are much more likely to require me to take an extra day off of work than with an airline like SWA or DL where flights leave about every hour . So , in the end , Southwest or Delta usually ends up being the lowest actual cost to me and both earn points/miles on every flight that do n't expire ( Delta miles do n't expire at all and Southwest points remain active as long as you have at least some account activity once every two years . ) As far as redemption value , this again varies widely and will depend very largely on your use case . For me , these two programs are my primary options due to where I live : Southwest In the case of Southwest , you typically earn 6 points per dollar spent on the cheap fares and can redeem points at a rate of 70 points per dollar of airfare . If you purchase the ticket with a Southwest co-branded credit card , you earn 8 points per dollar instead of 6 . So , without their card , you get a dollar worth of airfare for every $ 11.67 spent on airfare and , with their card , you get a dollar of airfare for every $ 8.75 spent . Delta Delta 's scheme is much more complicated and can range from much more valuable to much less valuable depending on your situation . For my situation , it 's more valuable . Earning miles With Delta , you earn 5 points per dollar of airfare as the base rate . If you buy the ticket with a Delta co-branded credit card , that goes up to 7 points per dollar . If you additionally have status with Delta , you get an additional 2 , 3 , 4 , or 6 points per dollar based on your level of status . In my case , I get 10 points per dollar total at my current status level ( which came entirely from personal travel , not business travel . ) Note that there is no bonus or penalty to this for different fare or cabin classes , but you inherently earn more points on more expensive fares since it 's based on dollars spent . So , if I buy a $ 200 round-trip fare , I earn 2,000 ' miles ' regardless of fare class , distance actually traveled , etc. . Redeeming miles While miles are earned on a dollar-cost basis , mileage redemption with Delta is ( loosely ) based on an award chart , with mileage cost depending on region traveled to/from and demand for that particular route ( i.e. usually only a few seats are available at the lowest mileage costs on a given flight . ) If you book early , domestic round trips usually start at 25,000 miles ( sometimes 20,000 , but this is less common . ) If you book a $ 200 round trip for 25,000 miles , that 's obviously not a great value ( less than 0.8 cents/mile value . ) However , the ' regions ' are quite large , with the entire U.S. and Canada ( excluding Hawaii ) being a single ' region . ' So , if you book a $ 500 trans-continental round-trip for 25,000 miles , that 's obviously a much better value ( 2 cents/mile , which is equivalent to $ 1 of airfare earned for every $ 5 of airfare purchased at my earning rate of 10 miles/dollar . ) The best redemption values I 've seen on Delta are for long-haul business class flights with 140,000 miles getting you a business class ticket to the other side of the planet that would normally cost $ 7k if bought with cash , a 5 cent/mile value . So , if I 'm earning 10 points per dollar of airfare and redeeming for 5 cents/mile of value , that 's 50 cents per dollar originally spent ( i.e. $ 1 of airfare earned for every $ 2 of airfare purchased ! ) In my case , this is exactly how I prefer to use the points , as I 'm not really a fan of flying economy ( and , thus , getting no sleep ) on routes that involve 30-36 hours of travel time ( 20-22 of that actually airborne ) each direction . Conclusion for a non-business traveler If you only ever travel short distances , always buy the cheapest tickets , and do n't earn miles separately from credit cards , then you 're probably never going to get up to 140,000 miles . However , 25,000 miles is certainly very attainable for the non-business traveler , since the points do n't expire ( $ 2,500 of total airfare purchased at my earning rate . ) An extra $ 500
Dörtyol Ticaret Merkezi Misafirhanesi , which apparently means " trade centre guesthouse " had a room with shared bathroom available for 12 Azeri manat as of August last year . That 's about 11 euro or $ 15 USD currently . This comes from somebody calling themself <URL> on <URL> Apparently the cheapest option according to the author .
The different Länder-Tickets allow unlimited travel with almost all regional trains within a specified area for a whole day . The tickets are ( with very few exceptions ) not valid in inter-city services ( train numbers starting with ICE , IC , EC , TGV , THA , RJ , EN , CNL , HBX , X ) . DB regional trains generally accept the tickets . Also the tickets are valid for most but not all private operators in the area . Where not specifically noted the tickets are not valid for local transport ( e.g. busses , trams , U-Bahn ) , only trains ( including S-Bahn ) . Monday through Friday tickets are valid from 9am to 3am the next day . On weekends and public holidays they are valid from midnight to 3am the next day . The tickets are only available until midnight the same day , even though they are still valid for three more hours . The details depend on the ticket you choose . The prices listed here reflect the time of writing and are given as 1/2/3 / 4/5 persons . Most tickets have a surcharge if bought at a counter . Also included are similar tickets but not all special tickets ( night tickets , first-class tickets , special border tickets , etc. ) . Many regions smaller than the ones listed below also have day tickets which are usually cheaper . Most passenger rights in case of delays are not applicable to these tickets ( e.g. covering taxi or hotel costs in case of missed night-connections ) . Note to mobile users : Many of the links go to huge PDF files . <URL> 28/31/34 / 37/40 $ , <URL> The ticket is valid in the states of Schleswig-Holstein , Mecklenburg-Vorpommern , and Hamburg . Additionally on a few select routes in Lower Saxony , Denmark , and Poland . Also valid on U-Bahn , ferries , and busses ( not Schnellbus ) in Hamburg ( <URL> ) . There is also a <URL> which costs 30.90 / 36.90 / 36.90 / 36.90 / 36.90 $ and is valid for trains and local transport in Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein ( except Sylt-Bus ) . <URL> 23/27/31 / 35/39 $ , <URL> The ticket is valid in the states of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and Hamburg . Additionally on a few select routes in Schleswig-Holstein , Brandenburg , and Poland . Also valid on U-Bahn , ferries , and busses ( not Schnellbus ) in Hamburg ( <URL> ) . In the following trains between Szczecin Glowny and Pasewalk the ticket is valid even before 9am : RE 5350 , RE 5351 , RE 5352 , RE 5353 , RE 5354 <URL> 23/27/31 / 35/39 $ , <URL> , <URL> The ticket is valid in the states of Lower Saxony , Bremen , and Hamburg . Additionally on a few select routes in North Rhine-Westphalia and Hesse . Also valid on U-Bahn , ferries , and busses ( not Schnellbus ) in Hamburg ( <URL> ) . Additionally valid for all local transport in the <URL> ( main city : Hannover ) , <URL> ( main city : Braunschweig ) , <URL> ( main cities : Bremen , Oldenburg ) , and <URL> ( main city : Göttingen ) . In Osnabrück valid on busses ( <URL> ) . The ticket is also valid on all IC trains on the route between Bremen Hbf and Augustfehn . On December 24 and December 31 valid from midnight until 3am next day . <URL> 29/29/29 / 29/29 $ , <URL> , <URL> The ticket is valid in the states of Brandenburg and Berlin , including all local transport ( except the SRS tram in Rüdersdorf / Schöneich ) . Additionally on a few select routes in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern , Saxony-Anhalt , Saxony , and Poland . Also valid on <URL> . If traveling alone a <URL> for 21 $ is cheaper , but it has different conditions . <URL> 29/42/42 / 42/42 $ , <URL> , <URL> The ticket is valid in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and the city of Osnabrück , including all local transport ( except <URL> ) . Additionally on a few select routes in Lower Saxony , Hesse , Rhineland-Palatinate , and the Netherlands . <URL> 33/33/33 / 33/33 $ , <URL> , <URL> The ticket is valid in the state of Hesse , including all local transport . Additionally on a few select routes in North Rhine-Westphalia , Lower Saxony , Thuringia , Rhineland-Palatinate , and Baden-Württemberg . <URL> , <URL> , <URL> 23/27/31 / 35/39 $ , <URL> , <URL> Those tickets are basically the same . The ticket is valid in the states of Saxony-Anhalt , Thuringia , and Saxony . Additionally on a few select routes in Brandeburg , Hesse , and the Czech Republic . The ticket is also valid for local transport in the following areas : <URL> ( main city : Magdeburg ) , <URL> ( main cities : Leipzig , Halle ) , <URL> ( main city : Chemnitz ) , <URL> ( main cities : Erfurt , Weimar , Jena ) , <URL> ( main city : Dresden ) , VVV region ( main city : Plauen ) , and <URL> ( main cities : Görlitz , Bautzen , Zittau ) . Also valid in Saxony-Anhalt on <URL> . <URL> , <URL> 24/28/32 / 36/40 $ , <URL> Those tickets are basically the same . The ticket is valid in the states of Rhineland-Palatinate and Saarland , including all local transport . Additionally on a few select routes in Baden-Württemberg , North Rhine-Westphalia , and France . If only traveling in Saarland one can use the cheaper <URL> for 18.40 / 31/31/31 / 31 $ . <URL> 23/28/33 / 38/43 $ , <URL> , <URL> The ticket is valid in the state of Baden-Württemberg . Additionally on a few select routes in Bavaria , Hesse , Rhineland-Palatinate , and Switzerland . The ticket is a
Except for a few special cases , a ticket to London Terminals is only valid until you reach your first of the London Terminals . It is almost never valid by tube . As explained on the <URL> Tickets issued for travel to/from London usually show ' London Terminals ' as the destination/origin rather than naming a specific station . This is because the ticket is valid to more than one London Terminal station provided it 's on any reasonable line of route . Tickets can only be used on National Rail services . For example , a ticket from Brighton to London Terminals is valid to Victoria , Waterloo ( changing at Clapham Junction ) , London Bridge , Blackfriars and City Thameslink or Charing Cross Waterloo East or Cannon Street ( changing at London Bridge ) . It would not be valid to , for example , London Euston or Paddington as this would not be on the line of route and would involve crossing London using another mode of transport . If you want to get from Reading ( or further west ) to London Bridge on a London Terminals ticket , going via Paddington is not allowed . To go Reading - Paddington - London Bridge , you need to buy a ticket to London Zone U1 , eg <URL> , which includes the onwards tube journey . Alternately , if you 're determined to get yourself to London Bridge on your current ticket ... You can route yourself on the Reading to Waterloo train , and change at either Clapham Junction , or ( post-August ) Waterloo + Waterloo East . Either way it 'll be a lot lot slower , but your <URL> via this slow route to London Bridge .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
The main difference between Tatkal and Premium Tatkal is that Premium Tatkal is an Online Only service . According to <URL> Passengers can book premium Tatkal tickets online only on the pattern of airline fares - more the demand , higher the fare . According to a Railway Board official , premium Tatkal tickets are dynamically priced like air fares . The minimum premium fare is the basic train fare plus Tatkal charges , which vary from 10 % to 30 % depending on the class of travel , he said , adding the maximum limit for booking premium Tatkal ticket is 30 % of the base fare or Rs400 , whichever is higher .
If it 's booked as one trip with the same airline , then the lugggage will be checked through to the final destination with a very high likelihood . To be absolutely certain , ask the Lufthansa employee at the counter when you check in in Chennai .
There are different ways to compare price levels between countries . The <URL> ( which , in this form , is actually more a purchasing power parity index ; see <URL> ) can be pretty good : Consumer Price Excl . Rent Index ( CPI ) is relative indicator of consumer goods price , including groceries , restaurants , transportation and utilities . CPI Index does n't include accomodation expenses such as rent or mortgage . If city has CPI index of 120 , it means Numbeo estimates it is 20 % more expensive than New York ( excluding rent ) . The only thing that a typical traveller wo n't need are utilities ( <URL> , you 'll be interested in the items that have > 0 in the first column ) , though if utility cost is high , hotel costs are likely to be high as well . There 's also a specific restaurant index on the site linked above . There 's one caveat , though : If there is very little domestic tourism in a country , the costs of " touristy " goods and activities will most likely be de-coupled from the cost of everyday living , i.e. you ' r going to pay more than you 'd expect ) . The inverse ( i.e. you pay less than you 'd expect ) can happen after bad publicity - shortly after a terrorist attack or a natural disaster , prices are usually very low , since there will be many tourists who cancel their plans . In addition to such a generalized index , you may also want to sample specific comparable goods , for example the cost for a night at an international chain hotel , or the <URL> , if you 're into that kind of thing .
If you travel during summer holiday season I would say forget it . All the tours are reserved , I was there in March ( the off-off season ) and they were doing a steady business . The outer parts are not ticketed , and the other castle ( Hohenschwangau ) is less busy . It is definitely worth the trip , I would say plan your travels around the ticket date , there are not all that many other attractions in the area so those destinations can be flexible .
Booking Sri-Lankan Train Tickets Online <URL> says that to date the only tickets that are bookable online are those for the <URL> and <URL> carriages for the Colombo-Kandy-Badulla journey . The regular trains can not be booked online ( quoting from <URL> ) : How to buy tickets ... The privately-run ExpoRail &amp; Rajadhani carriages Colombo-Kandy-Badulla can be booked online at www.exporail.lk &amp; www.rajadhani.lk . The regular Sri Lanka Railways trains can not be booked online , but it 's easy to buy tickets when you get to Sri Lanka at the station . In Colombo , there is a special ticket window for tourists in the 1st &amp; 2nd class advance booking office at the east end of Colombo Fort station . Since you wish to travel on the Colombo-Kandi stretch , you 'll be able to book that part of the journey on the Rajadhani in advance . <URL> . If you 'd rather take the InterCity train , then you 'll have to go to the ticket office in person or send someone on your behalf . Also note that reservations open 45 days before departure ( quoting from <URL> ) : Reservations for trains with reserved seating such as InterCity Express trains open 45 days in advance ( extended from 10 days in late 2013 ) . Seats in the 1st class observation car from Colombo to Kandy can get fully-booked from time to time , so book a few days ahead if you can , but you may well find seats available on the day of travel . Other trains ( shown as having unreserved seats ) do n't require a reservation , you just buy a ticket on and hop on . Purchasing Tickets in Advance <URL> suggests one possible alternative to online booking : using local travel agencies . The linked site has a few agencies listed . Note that these will obviously charge a fee for the booking . <URL> This is also a valid option , which will probably require you to pay an extra fee to the hotel , or at least tip the staff . The Man also mentions this on the linked page .
<URL> . Essentially , you have to be able to prove to the immigration officer that you have the intent to return home . ONE of the means of doing so includes having a purchased return ticket , showing that you 're leaving the country on day x. Most countries have this requirement for tourist visas , and for example , in America , it 's very common among travellers to purchase a cheap bus ticket from Seattle to Vancouver as ' evidence ' that they 're leaving . Then when they 've worked out where they 're actually going , they buy a ticket to there , and forfeit the bus ticket . Leaving by sail boat would be harder to prove , and indeed what might be easier is to produce an ' onward ' ticket - for example , a cheap flight to New Zealand , or Singapore or something . Ideally you 'd purchase a refundable or adjustable ticket , so that you can change it or get a refund when/if you go by boat instead . I recommend having a read of that pdf , it gives you several of the other options on what would be ' evidence ' of intent to return , including a job , lease agreement or more .
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
The specific policy will depend on your fare rules and on the airline you choose , but a week is a frightfully long time when it comes to airline tickets . Revenue tickets Some airlines let you pay a fee to reserve a seat and guarantee the price at the time of booking for up to seven days . For example , United calls its offering <URL> , Air France <URL> , and Lufthansa the unimaginative <URL> . It may not be offered for every fare or on every route . Some airlines allow you to reserve the seat and price for free , but only for 24 hours after booking or till midnight the following day . Some airlines , including American , make it possible to hold online ; others require you to call in . Still other airlines , including Qantas , allow you to reserve a seat for free , but will not honor the price at reservation time . Among U.S.-based airlines , it is most common now that the airline will not hold a reservation for you ; however , they do give you up to 24 hours to cancel a purchase without penalty , subject to other restrictions ( e.g. the trip might need to be at least a week or two in the future ) . In other words , you have post-purchase rather than pre-purchase flexibility . In my experience , the refund extends even to non-refundable fares . Cathay Pacific , for its part , allows <URL> a 24-hour prepurchase hold or a 24-hour postpurchase refund grace period , but not both . Award tickets Things are a looser with frequent flyer award tickets -- sometimes . Air Canada , British Airways , and others do not allow holds on award tickets at all , and few airlines are willing or able to hold award seats on partner carriers . But if you are redeeming on your " native " metal , you may be able to call in and hold the seat for several days . Extending a hold Sometimes , you can get call in and get an agent to extend a hold for you once or twice , especially if you have elite frequent flyer status . But there are no guarantees . They will not do so on high-demand routes , especially for frequent flyer redemptions in premium cabins , and may not be able to enforce a hold or an extension of a hold on partner airlines in the itinerary in the first place . Back in the days when many bookings were done through travel agents and on paper , there was more uncertainty as well as more capacity , allowing holds of three or even seven days on some fares . But airlines , like any other business , prefer to have the revenue of someone willing to pay now as opposed to the potential revenue of someone who might pay later , and in the modern competitive environment , holds are quite unpopular . The 24-hour window persists because ARC , the largest clearinghouse for airline tickets , continues to extend its traditional 24-hour grace period for travel agents to void tickets without penalty -- but that may not last either .
end question
start question
Is there luggage storage available near Venice train station ?
Assuming you are departing from Venezia Santa Lucia , <URL> Opening hours are from 6 am till 11 pm and cost is Charges 6,00 $ the first 5 hours 0,90 $ / hour from 6th to 12th hour 0,40 $ / hour from 13th hour on If possible however , you should try to ask your hotel if they can store your luggage for you until the evening , which will likely cost you nothing or a much smaller fee . <URL> recommends <URL> which is open until 7 pm only . There are also further options listed within easy reach in Piazzale Roma .
If you 're into your hiking into a big way , then Crianlarich is a good base for a few days . It 's in the Highlands about 2 hours by train from Glasgow , so just shy of 3 from Edinburgh ( so only slightly out of your ideal range ... ) There 's a <URL> there , which provides a great and cheap base for exploring the area . It 's round the corner from the <URL> which does swisher rooms if that 's more your thing . The hotel also does a decent priced meal , has a stunning selection of whisky , and is a great place to relax post walking ! You 've about a dozen <URL> walkable from there , and it 's on the <URL> for a slightly less mountainous set of walks . You have a number of buses and trains from there , so you can easily arrange a walk where you start or end somewhere else . The scenery around there is stunning too . It 's not a " big " place , but it 's big enough if you mostly want to walk , and it 's very well connected transport wise ( by highland standards anyway ! ) .
I did this two and a half years ago , and took a 75L pack and a day pack . My friend also had one , and the six others in our group also had backpacks plus odds and ends . There was no problem . However , the train was also only half full ( October ) . I imagine the rules are there so that in the peak season , if it 's busy they can then start enforcing them . So short answer - it depends on when you go , and what staff you get , and how full the train is :)
Yes there are plenty . The most thourough experience is probably to visit Skansen - the outdoors combined zoo and open-air museum at Djurgården . They have some <URL> about this . In swedish there are <URL> about the festivities . Almost everwhere there are some kind of local festivity going on . It may be hard to track down . In Sollentuna where I live there is traditional celebrations at the local folk museum ( called hembygdsgård in swedish ) . This is very common . Most swedes however bring friends and family to their summer houses and have a smaller celebration . This is the most genuine way to do it . Things to expect : Typically you start at lunch with sill and nubbe . ( Pickled herring and spiced vodka . ) Then you may either have a maypole of your own to construct and raise or you visit one of the local festivities for this part of the celebrations . Once the pole is raised there are supposed to be some music and tradiational dancing around it . This part is mostly forgotten and usually only includes the childrens dance called " Små grodorna " - the little frogs . ( Skansen will surely have some traditional dancing going on though . ) Update : a <URL> to get the feeling for this part . After the pole part it may be time for sports . <URL> is a game from gotland that is played all over the country nowadays . I have also been involved in soccer games at this stage of the day . Later on - more food . More sill and nubbe but also BBQed meet . New potatoes are also an important part of both lunch and dinner . This may often be the first time of the year when you can have new potatoes . Really nice ! Expect to sing some nubbevisor to the spirits . More ambitious people have a little booklet with songs to sings in relation to drinking . They are supposed to end with a " Skål " and everyone drinking the nubbe . Strawberries are an important part of the food stuffs . The most pure way to have it is plain with fat milk but it is also common with home made strawberry cake . <URL> by mariahagglof of flickr . We always talk about typical swedish summer weather in relation to midsummer . We have all spent one or two midsummers freezing in a party tent at someones summr house . When the weather is good it is a different story though . Traditional clothing . Different parts of Sweden has different kind of tradiational clothing and the most likely day to use it is on midsummers eve . If you are a not married woman you can pick seven different kinds of flowers and ( in some versions ) jump over seven hedges . Then put the flowers under your pillow and you will dream of your future spouse . If in doubt about any of this just ask any swede at hand . They will be happy to explain it all . In short - a bigger celebration may have more of the traditional stuff included but a smaller one is more the way most swedes do it . After this I leave you with this ( somewhat sad ) maypole from my families celebrations in 2011 .
In general , as long as the box meets the size and weight restrictions for carry-on luggage , you can bring it into the cabin . Luggage restrictions generally do not concern the material from which the luggage is made .
Hotel Luggage Storage Your hotel will most probably allow you to store luggage before check-in and after check-out . <URL> indeed seems to agree with this hypothesis . To confirm this you can try contacting your hotel . Airport Luggage Storage There used to be luggage storage facilities in Las Vegas McCarran Airport . As of may 2016 these seem to be discontinued . BagsToGo There is also a private paying service called <URL> which offers luggage storage facilities . Quoting from their website : 3 . What are the service offerings ? Baggage Storage : Allows passengers to store bags at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport and in Las Vegas at our Off-Airport location for up to 30 days , with valid I.D. and proof of travel within the requested storage time . [ ... ] 5 . How much does it cost ? For Baggage Storage , the cost is $ 7 per bag , per calendar day .
Many US airports do in fact have a " mail back " kiosk near security , where you can drop off your pocket knife , attach a form with your address and some money ( postage plus a hefty markup ) , and have it mailed back to you . <URL> is one of the companies that operates these kiosks ; they claim to have kiosks in <URL> ( elsewhere on their site they say 28 ) .
As Mark mentioned it does depend on the airport and country , but as a general rule , the inspectors are only required to repack your items back into the suitcase they came out of . The plastic wrap is a disposable item and even if they slowly and carefully unwrapped it , it would be near impossible to rewrap . So plastic wrap would be tossed by any inspection after you have checked your bags . If you have something like a cardboard box and the plastic wrap was keeping it shut , then the inspector would likely use tape to close the box after completing the inspection .
Mark 's answer is right , I just want to add some useful references for you . If you are in Russia , you can use the map engine from biggest Russian search provider , Yandex : <URL> ( <URL> ) . They works perfectly on mobile , so this is quite useful for you . They are similar to GoogleMaps , but are much more detailed for Russian cities . For example , Yekaterinburg : <URL> Another reason to use such engine is an easy search for anything you need in travel : <URL> Blue dots are small hotels , blue circles are medium hotels , purple circles are paid advertisers , I think . Green letters are metro-stations so you can easily get to any hotel you need : <URL> If you interested in some mobile application similar to Maps.Yandex , I recommend you <URL> . It can get your location and show interesting places around you . I works even without Internet connection , so sometimes is very useful : <URL>
If you use credit cards , then you should check into the member benefits ( if any ) associated with that card because your credit card company may automatically provide some sort of flight insurance / baggage protection if you purchase the plane ticket using that card . For example : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , there are direct trains but I would not trust voyages-sncf . com to book train journeys entirely outside France ( or for anything else actually ) . <URL> will show you all the trains and should allow you to buy a ticket online . Another option to book the tickets would be <URL> ( I find the site nicer and easier to use than either SNCF or NMBS/SNCB but they only offer postal tickets for this journey so that 's not very convenient ) . Finally , you can buy a ticket on the day of travel , at the airport . Apart from international services ( especially Thalys ) and unlike in France , Germany or the UK , there is no advance booking discounts or seat reservations on trains in Belgium so little downside to buying the tickets at the last minute , except the need to plan some time for it . Besides , your train is little more than a suburban train , Belgium is quite small and Antwerpen is a bit over 30 min away from the airport . Note that , depending on the site/language , the airport station is also called " Bruxelles Nat . Aéroport " or " Brussel Nationaal Luchthaven " .
No . To go between France and the UK by train , you need to cross the <URL> . Only three types of trains cross the Channel tunnel : Eurostar high-speed trains carrying passengers <URL> carrying vehicles Freight trains The Tunnel will soon open to competition , but the other competitors are likely to be high-speed trains heading to other locations , with similar prices . I think the cheapest way of crossing the tunnel is <URL> , if you have one . It may not be as cheap if you need to rent a bicycle or to buy one in Lille and sell it off in London or if you factor in the expenses along the way . If you book a little in advance , a bus is likely to be cheaper overall . At least <URL> and <URL> . The journey time is about 6 hours , as opposed to 1 1/2 hours by train . You can also investigate ferry crossings . Since the train is faster and more comfortable , ferries can but compete on price .
Since no one answered today , I just checked it out . Actually , there are no lockers at Hardbrücke station . But the main station is very close , only one station away . You can get there a locker for 24 hours for 5 franks . There are small lockers available for notebook cases or similar stuff and big lockers for suitcases . Another station close to Hardbrücke that has lockers is Örlikon . But the choice is not that big as at the main station . The prices are similar .
Yes , there are facilities there . Core4Bag provides luggage storage services at the airport . Price depends on the size of the bag and how long you 're storing it there for . Here 's the link to the airport luggage services page , which lists them , along with their phone number : <URL> And here 's the link to the Core4Bag web site , which among other things , has pricing information and directions on how to find them in the airport : <URL> From their website : Baggage storage is located at Arrivals Hall next to Gate 1 . Operates 24 hours . All stored items are controlled by X - Ray and monitored by CCTV during all storage time . Here 's the direct link to the pricing table : <URL> - if you 're talking about an average cabin carry-on , it 's going to be either " small " or " medium " in their terminology , and will , respectively , cost $ 3.50 or $ 5.50 to store ( per bag ) for up to 6 hours . Note that their pricing table states that these prices are valid up to 31/12/2015 , so may change from January .
<URL> : lockers are now available in Porto downtown at Trindade metro station - with direct connection to Porto Airport . The station is opened all the year from 06am to 01am , and the service it 's not expensive . Another link to the <URL> shows more information . Their FAQ is broken in English , but from my rough translation , it 's not necessary to reserve , they 're open from 6am to 1am , and the baggage dimensions for storage are : Small : 36x48x85 cm . Medium : 36x65x85 cm . Large : 36x99x85 cm . The prices depend on how long and how large a locker you require , and are available <URL> . It varies between 1 Euro for 1 hour for a small bag up to 6 Euros for an all day storage of a large one . At the time of writing there is just one block of lockers comprising 16 small lockers , 9 medium and 2 large , as shown in this picture ( from the aforementioned company website ) : <URL> If you are travelling with large suitcases you 'll need to either find a free large locker or try to cram the suitcase in a medium one . Note that being the only self-service luggage storage service in Porto , the lockers tend to be all occupied most of the time .
Assuming you are departing from Venezia Santa Lucia , <URL> Opening hours are from 6 am till 11 pm and cost is Charges 6,00 $ the first 5 hours 0,90 $ / hour from 6th to 12th hour 0,40 $ / hour from 13th hour on If possible however , you should try to ask your hotel if they can store your luggage for you until the evening , which will likely cost you nothing or a much smaller fee . <URL> recommends <URL> which is open until 7 pm only . There are also further options listed within easy reach in Piazzale Roma .
I have never used their service , or that of a competitor , but <URL> ( Portable On-Demand Storage ) might do what you want . The big questions will be cost , and timeliness . I also do n't know if they have service outside of the U.S. , but there may be similar services elsewhere in the world . The service , as I understand it , essentially delivers a large " pod " ( metal crate ) to your drive way , where you can load whatever you want . It is then stored in one of their storage facilities , and can later be dropped of again -- at whichever address you specify , including one across the country . As the service is intended for long-term storage , and cross-country moves , it may prove to be un-economical as a sort of " on-demand luggage " service , but it might be worth investigating .
Yes , there are numerous such offers : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They all seem to start at Kathmandu , so you can probably shop around there .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
end question
start question
Will luggage offices in Japanese train stations hold bags overnight ?
Yes , most luggage counters will hold your bags overnight or longer , eg . the one in Tokyo Station can hold them for up to 15 days . 410 yen/day for the first five days , 820 yen/day from the 6th day onward . Ask for the " Rail-Go Service " ( レール ・ ゴー ・ サービス ) ; the weird name is because you can also send bags to/from here via package delivery services like Takkyubin . Link in Japanese : <URL>
You really do n't need to bring it , soy milk is widely available at most any supermarket in Australia . You should be allowed to import soy milk if it 's commercially packaged , but you must declare it to <URL> on arrival , if you fail to declare it you may be subject to fines .
Recently I was watching luggage handlers loading luggage into my plane at Amsterdam Schiphol while I was queueing to board ( 20-30 minutes before takeoff ) . There was a female luggage handler who started unloading a luggage-cart train starting form the last cart . She was very slow and would pick up only smaller pieces . I suppose she was waiting for males to help her with the heavier ones . Smaller as well as soft pieces were actually stacked on top of the carts while the massive hardcases would lie at the bottom of the carts . Clearly some sorting must have been done while loading ( which was reassuring since I was traveling with a soft backpack ) . As I did n't see my luggage there , I suppose it had already been loaded ( I had a 2.5 h transfer at Schiphol ) . However , at the luggage reclaim I got my luggage quite quickly . Interestingly , I met a traveller who had exactly the same flights as me and when I was leaving the airport he was still waiting for his piece . One of differences was - I had a backpack while he had a regular suitcase . My point is , I saw only a small part of the whole process , yet there was plenty of room for scrambling the order . It is mostly manual work done by a number of individuals and I guess that makes it pretty unpredictable . As for the backpacks - I mentioned that as I came across several airports where they have separate bag drops for backpacks with loose straps so I assume there might be different ways of handling these . However , I have n't noticed or heard of any ( dis ) advantages of having this type of luggage . Finally , I kind of accepted that it is a pure chance when I reclaim my luggage and I usually try to do a little trick . I just get busy with various things between the landing and reclaiming the luggage . During that time I tidy up my hand luggage , change clothes when going to warmer/colder places , tidy up my wallet - replacing currencies , preparing bus tickets etc. , go to bathroom to refresh myself , be it makeup or brushing my teeth , also , after a long flight it is nice to do some stretching . Playing with the phone is fine too - change a SIM card , maybe look for a socket to charge it a bit . After completing all these things I approach a baggage reclaim place full of impatient people waiting there already for ages . For me it is only the beginning of waiting and typically I get my luggage within a few minutes and my nerves are saved .
Of course it 's legal to ask for anything . It 's up to you whether you give it up . Ultimately , they want to get their bike back and in working condition and to be paid for the rental and any damage . A passport is one of the only things a foreign tourist will value enough to ensure adherence to the agreement . On the flip side , the proprietor wants to make the deal ; moreover , in Thailand as elsewhere , there is a cultural resistance to making impositions on guests . I have never refused to hand over my passport in Thailand , though I have done so successfully in Vietnam and Laos , so this is what I would advise : When you decline , do so politely and indirectly , e.g. " I am planning to stay at ABC hotel in XYZ city , and I will need my passport to check in , " or " I am not supposed to give my passport because it is the property of my government " [ technically true ] . You want to give the sense that you are refusing not because you do not trust the proprietor , but because you are scrupulous about following rules and norms . Then , you 'll need collateral : Money . Large outfits may accept a credit card or cash deposit . This is the standard in North America and Europe , but I do not think it is common in Thailand . Your availability . Your hotel or hostel may have agreements with vendors , and their reference may be good enough to serve as a letter of introduction , or at least assurance that you will be returning to the area . This is where a photocopy of your passport and visa can sometimes work , as it would be a way , in theory , of tracking you down institutionally if you skip the bill . Your honor . I got to know the motorcycle rental guy in the village I was staying in for a few days , and gained his trust . I told him details of a trip I wanted to do and instead of referring me to his friend the taxi driver ( as usually happens ) , he let me rent a motorcycle for the day in good faith .
There are no night buses that I am aware of . Green Bus has Chiang Mai to Chiang Khong routes ( stops in Chiang Rai on the way ) , but they are daytime schedules . Most bus companies try to avoid driving the road between Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai at night , as it is a winding mountain route with less than perfect drivers ( ie post drinking drivers ) .
Because you only gain 11.7 % volume and give up a bunch of other advantages , including making packing worse . The volume of luggage with maximum checked-luggage dimensions ( W + L + H < = 62 ) [ 1 ] is 27in x 21in x 14in = 7938in3 . The volume of the cube is 20.7 in3 = 8869.7 in3 . Only 11.7 % more . If maximizing ( packing ) volume ( inside a large regular space ) was the only design consideration , then yes it would be cubic ( like balikbayan boxes as <URL> ) . Now consider everything you lose : Much more unwieldy . Center of gravity and moments of inertia are worse ( wonky , harder to pull with a handle on two wheels ) . Bulky : width of 20.7 " is 48 % wider . Blocks check-in lines , corridors , gangways . Areal density is worse , since the footprint 20.72 > 27 x 14 . Worse in an elevator , or a departure lounge , or a car trunk . Although volume density and packing will be better in large spaces ( e.g. warehouse , container ) , Volume density and packing are actually much worse , counterintuitively when either you pack it with other dissimilar-sized luggage , or in a small or non-cubic space You almost surely ca n't stack two 20.7 " cubes on top of each other in a car or taxi trunk . And hard to stack them diagonally . You can get a suitcase in a passenger seat at a pinch , but not a 20.7 " cube ( not in a medium-sized car , anyway ) Packing density is worse e.g. in a car trunk . Having one identical dimension gives you fewer options for packing . As you say , it will be much less likely to fall over , but that 's actually a bad consideration for sliding on baggage carousels and loading ramps . Regular-sized luggage has lower static friction and slides over each other . Normalizing w.r.t. 20.7 " sides , the normalized dimensions of regular luggage are ( 27/20 .7 , 21/20 .7 , 14/20 .7 ) = ( 1.304 , 1.014 , 0.676 ) . So you compromise on width to get more length , without losing much volume . Does n't preserve its orientation when loaded/packed/unloaded . Regular-sized luggage has a clear orientation , and can only be confused w.r.t. up/down ( and even then we use labels or nametags or ' Fragile ' tags to make that obvious ) . [ 1 ] <URL> of checked and carry-on luggage limits imposed by various airlines ( US and international )
Yes , it is acceptable . However , it is etiquette that if the baby does start to make noise that you take it to the " deck " area beyond the doors ( where the bathrooms , telephone , vending machines , etc. ) are . This is the same protocol if you have to make or receive a telephone call , want to have a loud conversation with your seatmate , or do anything that might disturb other passengers . I should note that this has nothing to do with the green car -- the main cars nominally operate under these protocols , it 's just that the other passengers ( and conductors ) are less likely to enforce them .
Except for a few special cases , a ticket to London Terminals is only valid until you reach your first of the London Terminals . It is almost never valid by tube . As explained on the <URL> Tickets issued for travel to/from London usually show ' London Terminals ' as the destination/origin rather than naming a specific station . This is because the ticket is valid to more than one London Terminal station provided it 's on any reasonable line of route . Tickets can only be used on National Rail services . For example , a ticket from Brighton to London Terminals is valid to Victoria , Waterloo ( changing at Clapham Junction ) , London Bridge , Blackfriars and City Thameslink or Charing Cross Waterloo East or Cannon Street ( changing at London Bridge ) . It would not be valid to , for example , London Euston or Paddington as this would not be on the line of route and would involve crossing London using another mode of transport . If you want to get from Reading ( or further west ) to London Bridge on a London Terminals ticket , going via Paddington is not allowed . To go Reading - Paddington - London Bridge , you need to buy a ticket to London Zone U1 , eg <URL> , which includes the onwards tube journey . Alternately , if you 're determined to get yourself to London Bridge on your current ticket ... You can route yourself on the Reading to Waterloo train , and change at either Clapham Junction , or ( post-August ) Waterloo + Waterloo East . Either way it 'll be a lot lot slower , but your <URL> via this slow route to London Bridge .
1 - Yes , absolutely . The earliest shinkansen departs at 6:14 from Kyoto and arrives at 9:00 in Tokyo . Add in the ~ 40 minutes to get to Miraikan and you should be there at around 10:00 . To get to Narita on time ( about 2 hours early ) , you 'll have to leave at about 17:30 , leaving you with a more than enough 7 hours to visit . 2 - This is completely subjective , but if you enjoy technology and science , go for it . I found the exibits very interesting . You might also want to visit the nearby Gundam Front Tokyo <URL> 3 - Yes , there are plenty of coin lockers in Tokyo station . These will cost you up to 500 yen depending on the size you choose .
What usually happens is that originally , there is a station named X ( which may or may not be named after the city where it is located ) . At some point it is decided that the area needs a new station , and that the new station shall just be named " Shin-X " , which should be understood as meaning " the new X " . Sometimes the reason why a new station is necessary is that a new Shinkansen line to the area is planned and it is determined that the existing station is not suitable to accomodate it . This is what happened in Shin-Osaka for example : the area around Osaka station did not have enough room for the necessary developments . There can be many other reasons why a new station is needed , however . In the case of Shin-Sapporo , it was to serve a new urban development ( which incidentally was also named Shin-Sapporo ) . An interesting one is Shin-Rifu ( in Rifu town , near Sendai ) which was established when the Tohoku Shinkansen started operating , not because the Shinkansen actually goes to this station , but to accomodate employees and visitors of the neighbouring Shinkansen rail yard . The Japanese wikipedia page of a station usually has a " History " section where some background information about its establishment is given . And sometimes Shin is just part of the " actual " name of the station , as with Shintoku station ( in Shintoku city , Hokkaido ) .
Probably , but with care Although the EU security regulations do n't prohibit spare batteries , there are separate safety restrictions . <URL> state that : Spare batteries < 100Wh are permitted in cabin baggage , but not in the hold . You can only carry two spare batteries between 100-160 Wh , again only in the cabin . Batteries over 160Wh are not permitted . In all cases , each battery must either be in a separate plastic bag , or have its terminals covered to prevent a short circuit . The <URL> for example are a little more restrictive , requiring airline approval for anything between 100-160Wh . Not sure whether any EU member states have similarly strict guidelines . For comparison , a laptop battery is typically less than 100Wh
It appears that information is in fact not listed in full on public websites . So I called them and asked about specifics at the Brig train station : Storage duration Generally , the maximum storage duration is 24h However , you can extend the storage duration via supplementary payments before the 24h runs out , up to a maximum of 72h total If a 24h period runs out without further payment , the contents will be locked and a red light on the locker should indicate that you need to pay again to access your contents After the total maximum of 72h runs out , the contents of the locker will be claimed by the baggage office and moved to the lost &amp; found , and you 'll have to pick them up there ( for a fee , I assume ) Pricing Prices and available sizes do vary between locations ( <URL> ) . In Brig , there 's two sizes of lockers ( width x height x depth ) : Large - 44x61x88cm - CHF 8.00 / 24h Small - 24x42x75cm - CHF 5.00 / 24h Source : <URL> ( +41 900 300 300 ( premium rate number , CHF 1.19 / min ) ) Opening Times ( Brig ) Baggage Office Lost &amp; Found Source : <URL> Note : These opening times only refer to the offices ( baggage / lost &amp; found ) , access times for your locker are usually longer . I could n't get exact details for access times to lockers in the Brig station , but this page for <URL> lists them as so I assume the situation in Brig is at least similar .
I have no experience with this particular scenario and ca n't tell you exactly how this particular Spanish consulate will treat your application but in theory it should not be an issue . As far as the regulations are concerned , you should have a legitimate purpose and the financial means to pay for your accommodation , nothing more . There is absolutely no obligation to have each and every night accounted for and technically , you do n't even need any specific booking or reservation , although it can be useful to support your application . Your other question suggests you applied for a visa for a longer , more complex trip . If you do get a multiple-entry or two-entry visas from October 1st to the end of your trip to Greece , it would also allow you to enter on the 11th so the whole issue is moot ( there is no such thing as a visa valid for one entry on the 1st and one entry on the 12th , it 's either a single-entry visa or two entries at any time during the period of validity ) . Since you are , as far as I can tell , a UK resident with a good profile , my guess is that you will get a multiple-entry with enough flexibility not to worry about this . But even if you do n't , you would still have the option of shortening the trip at the other end ( returning to the UK one day earlier to avoid going over the maximum stay limit ) .
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
None , except the obvious : following the rules for the sake of following the rules , instead of their intent . The ziplock bag exists as a convenient ( and IMHO rather clever ) way to visualize the liquids rules : you 're allowed 1 ziplock bag of size 1 liter/quart containing items with up to 3 fl.oz / 100ml of liquid/gel each , and the TSA even brands this as the " <URL> " . If your items fit in a ziplock bag , they 're likely to comply ; if they do n't , further inspection is warranted . So why would a security checkpoint confiscate another compliant toothpaste tube just because it 's not in a ziplock bag ? Because <URL> . And for a low-level bureaucrat , there is no penalty for enforcing the rules too zealously , while using common sense but making a mistake might get them fired . Doubly so in a place like Dubai , where everything is outsourced to the lowest bidder .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
Pressure is going to be basically the same as the passengers enjoy , as the entire fuselage is pressurized . The only real difference will be temperature , as the cargo hold area is not usually heated to any great degree unless the aircraft is transporting live animals or cold sensitive perishable items . The cold section of the cargo hold may drop down to 10C ( give or take a few degrees ) , but they would n't let it drop below freezing as they do n't want bottled liquids in suitcases freezing solid .
<URL> , anywhere in the country , because it 's by far the most important currency for trade and remittances . <URL> . However , the cash spread will almost certainly be higher than the rate you would get from an ATM , which is <URL> .
<URL> . Tourism Information Center ( Fonatur ) Ph : 84 29 59 ; Downtown Ave. Nader at Ave. Coba , SM 5 This is <URL> , although it 's worth noting that apparently they shorten street names , so the actual street name is Avenida Carlos Nader .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
end question
start question
My ESTA is expiring - how does one go about renewing it ?
There 's a <URL> : When my ESTA expires how do I renew my application ? If your ESTA has expired , you must reapply for a brand new authorization by submitting a new application . Current authorizations can not be extended . Go to <URL> , follow the instructions to answer all of the required questions and submit a new application for travel authorization - just like you did the first time you applied . You do not need to wait until your ESTA expires to re-apply . You may do so at any time before , on or after the expiration date of your existing ESTA . Should you receive the message " A valid , approved application with more than 30 days remaining has been found for this passport . Submitting this application will require payment for this application and will then cancel the existing application . " you will simply continue with the application to begin your new application . Your prior ESTA will be cancelled and replaced with your new application . ESTA approvals are typically granted for a two-year period or until the applicant 's passport expires , whichever is sooner . The approval is good for multiple entries - meaning you may use it for more than one entry into the U.S. ESTA provides validity dates upon approval of the application . The associated $ 14.00 fee will be charged for each new application .
There are direct trains , which run on the Keisei Sky Access line or the Keisei Main Line between Narita airport and Aoto station , and then continue on the Keisei Oshiage line and the Toei Asakusa line , as shown on these <URL> screenshots . <URL> <URL> Note the triangle-shaped icons to the left of the station names : they indicate that this is the same train running on different lines , so you do not get off the train at those stations . Note also that the Access Express trains ( which run on the Keisei Sky Access line ) take less time , but cost more . By the way , there is currently no direct train leaving Narita airport between 14:00 and 15:00 and stopping at Higashi-Ginza , but there are some which stop at Nihombashi and Shinbashi nearby , which could be good enough for you .
I can add that we participate in the NYC Walkabout which runs annually . Unfortunately , the one this year already happened 3 weeks ago . walkaboutnyc.com
Yes , <URL> , although the US$ 65 " royalty " is actually included in the US$ 200 " daily package fee " . However , that 's the group rate ( 3 or more people ) , you get socked another $ 40/30 per person if you 're traveling solo/duo , and another $ 50/night/person if you 're visiting when it 's neither midwinter nor monsoon ( March-May , Sep-Nov ) . Bhutan explicitly wants cashed-up tourists and not penurious backpackers , so the rates are high . The only <URL> are : Citizens of India , Bangladesh and the Maldives , who do n't need visas Young children : no royalty under 5 , 50 % off under 12 Students : 25 % off The alternative is to wrangle an invitation from a Bhutanese citizen or organization , but obviously this requires actually knowing someone , there 's no Russia-style invitation letter mill . <URL> is one way in , but the competition 's pretty tough .
Visa Waiver Program visitors must have Electronic System for Travel Authorizations ( ESTA ) approval prior to travel and have visited the United States on at least one occasion after 2008 . The answer to your question appears to be that you can use the gates with a new ESTA , or even a new passport . Source : <URL>
Yes , it is a real thing . It is to encourage immigration from countries that have low immigration rates to the US . There are tens of thousands that are given each year . I want to say around 50,000 . The idea is to increase the USA 's diversity . If you ' win ' the lottery , you receive a ' Green Card ' or permanent residency in the United States . EDIT : True ( via Hippietrail ) , you should be very careful . I believe Russia was on the list last year , but you must check that . Although Ukraine I know tops for number of lottery issues in Europe . Warnings about the program can be seen <URL> . The registration is <URL> .
This is what the compartment should more or less look like ( <URL> ) : <URL> As you guessed , there is no changing room or something similar . A pillow and sheet like you see in the picture are provided . There is some variation , but most people will sleep in comfortable street clothes or close to that . Usually at the end of the coach there are toilets and a washstand . The washstand is probably the closest you will get to a changing room . You can use it to clean your face , to shave , brush your teeth and eventually do a quick cat wash . No full shower . That you should get somewhere else . If you decide on the cat wash try to leave the washstand as you found it instead of flooded . There might be shower facilities in major stations ( Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris has some for instance , I 'm not sure about German stations ) . If you expect smelly shoes/feet the best option is probably to air your feet and footwear before boarding the train . If you can carry some light sandals to replace your heavy hiking boots , that would be an option . Putting your smelly shoes in plastic bag and knotting it well closed will also make a huge difference . Another thing to be aware of if you want to be considerate towards the other passengers ( and it sounds you are , thank you ) is to avoid noise for people that are already sleeping when you board the train or are still sleeping when you leave the train . If you leave very early make sure that all your luggage is easily retrievable with at minimum on noise . Postpone putting on your shoes until you are outside the compartment , in the corridor . Places to store luggage are under the lower beds ( rather narrow space ) , above the door ( surprisingly large , perfect for bulky items ) and behind that little stair . Avoid putting anything behind the stair when boarding in the middle of the night because putting something there is always noisy . I often put a small bag simply next to me in the bed , but this depends largely on the size of the bag and your own size .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
You could still use your iPhone , buy apps that work offline for maps , city guides , etc. , try to find Wifi for the rest including Skype calls back home and limit expensive roaming calls to a minimum . It 's obviously less comfortable than having unlimited Internet everywhere but it 's easy to set up ( compared to other solutions like unlocking/buying pay-as-you go SIM card or buying some secondary phone ) and still lets you use some of the iPhone 's functionality .
First of all , <URL> is very big thing , so address in the Taiga is n't much helpful for you :) Secondary , my apologies about some information is only in Russian , especially maps . The Curch of the Last Testament has their village in the <URL> . Their site is very old , and the only thing working there is the <URL> . Also they have <URL> , and there is the <URL> . <URL> is : 662925 , Krasnoyarsk Krai , Kuraginsky District , d. Petropavlovka , ul . Kolhoznaya , d. 9 . Please note that Tiberkul is named after <URL> , which is situated in 130 kilometers from Kuragino ( district center ) and in 30 kilometers from Cheremshanka village . Other villages near the lake are : Tagasuk , Zharovsk , Gulyaevka . According <URL> and <URL> , the roads to the lake is available ONLY IN WINTER - on snow ( from Gulyaevka and Cheremshanka ) . In other time , you can get there only by two methods : helicopter local citizens 's tankets and tractors :) Also <URL> is some information about some club in <URL> , which regulary goes to the lake on their off-roaders , but this is quite uncertain .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
The circumstances that require a new ESTA are listed <URL> and include only : passport change name change gender change citizenship change something happens ( e.g. criminal conviction , overstay ) that might cause the loss of the VWP privilege and require you to get a visa instead . Otherwise the ESTA you applied for is good for 2 years regardless of how other information you included in the application changes .
It may not be the the exact controversies you are seeking , but Washington DC 's <URL> offers an immersive experience in the art of spycraft .
Recently while planning my trip to Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam , I did a little research : I am not sure about direct buses from Siem Reap . However , Stueng Traeng is about 5 hours . From there , you can get a mini bus connection to Pakse . This takes about another 5 hours . From Pakse it is an overnight sleeper to Vientiane . If you have time , it is advisable to stop over either at ST or take a slight detour to Kratie . Stay overnight here , and then get a bus to Pakse ( an extra 2 hours ) . I also stumbled upon this website : <URL> , could be useful you , though the buses seem to start from Phnom Penh . You might be able to get more information from them . Another post I saw was about this couple who did a trip to Vientiane from Siem Reap via Thailand : <URL> . I finally dropped Laos from my itinerary , so can not advice you from personal experience though .
Let 's assume that " London " is any major mainline station - they 're all reasonably central and well-connected for onward journeys - and that you 're only interested in rail not buses or taxis . All but one ( Luton ) have a station connected directly to the airport , though getting out of the terminal and to the station is quicker for some than for others . I have n't counted travel time to get to the airport station for any of them except Luton . All fares are single and assume no railcards , offers , etc. . Unless clearly stated , no change of transport en route . Trains per hour are during the day on a weekday . Gatwick Gatwick Express to Victoria . 30 minutes . # 19.90 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to Victoria . 35-40 minutes . # 15.40 single . Around five trains per hour . Local train to London Bridge . 35-55 minutes . # 9 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to St. Pancras . 55-70 minutes . # 10 single . Four trains per hour . There are also direct rail connections to Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , Brighton , Eastbourne , &amp; Portsmouth . Through train to Luton Airport Parkway . Luton Local train to St. Pancras . 25-45 minutes , plus 10 minute bus ride to the station from the airport . # 14 single plus bus ticket ( # 2 single ) . About seven trains per hour ( varies ) . There are also direct rail connections to Leicester , Nottingham , Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , and even Brighton . Through train to Gatwick . City Docklands Light Railway . No direct connection to a mainline station but 20 minutes to Bank ( equally central ) or go to Canning Town and then change to the Jubilee Line to London Bridge ( 22m ) or Waterloo ( 25m ) . Single fare is # 4.90 cash , # 3.30 Oyster ( peak ) , # 2.80 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Frequent service . If you are heading out of London to the east , you can also take the DLR to Stratford ( for Essex ) or Stratford International ( for Kent ) Heathrow Piccadilly Line tube to King 's Cross . ~ 1 hour , or a little less to somewhere like Piccadilly Circus - this is one of the few to go across London so you can get off in the middle ! Single fare is # 6 cash , # 5.10 Oyster ( peak ) , # 3.10 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Six trains per hour ( T4 &amp; T5 ) , or twelve trains per hour ( T2/3 ) Heathrow Connect to Paddington . 25-35 minutes , # 10.20 single . Two trains per hour . Heathrow Express to Paddington . 15-20 minutes ( depending on terminal ) , # 22 single . Four trains per hour . Southend Local train to Liverpool Street . ~ 55 minutes . # 16.80 single ( # 15.80 off-peak ) . Three trains per hour , one per hour on Sundays . Stansted Stansted Express to Liverpool Street . 45-55 minutes . # 19 single . Four trains per hour . Direct connections to Cambridge , Peterborough , Leicester , and ( believe it or not ) Birmingham . City is of course the clear winner on both price and time , but some others are better than I expected ...
No . Firstly , note that you 'll likely be required to get a visa at the border with the US , even though you 're in the visa-waiver countries for ESTA - it apparently only counts for flights , or within 90 days of a flight into the US if arriving by land ( ! ) as I found out , twice . However , leaving the country there 's not even a passport check - you simply need to have the legal ( visa or other requirements depending on your passport ) for entering the next country . As the country for you is Canada , and you 're a British citizen , <URL> . Documents-wise , you 'll need your passport and travel documents ( flights etc ) and it 's handy to have any details of your accommodation or other travel plans , in case you get asked for them at any of the borders .
Luggage gets lost when : It does n't make it to the plane on time , or It is sent to the wrong place , or It is stolen wholesale . Checking in early reduces the risk of # 1 , and has no impact on # 2 , leaving only case # 3 to worry about . Breaking that down in turn , there 's basically two ways for bags to get stolen : Opportunistic theft of arrived bags from the baggage area ( = guy in suit " accidentally " picking up your suitcase instead ) . Obviously checking in early has no impact on this . Professional gangs of thieves in the airport itself spiriting away bags . Typically they 've got one accomplice checking for juicy items ( cameras , laptops etc ) in the X-rays , and another taking the bags thus spotted . Now odds are the " steal or not " decision is made pretty much instantly ( " Hey Bob ! Make sure the purple suitcase for flight XY123 falls off the conveyor belt , mmkay ? " ) , but maybe having a lot of time helps ? So if you 're in an airport known for theft and you 're checking in something you really should n't be checking in , then you might want to check in as late as possible . But if you 're sensible and put all your valuables in carry-on luggage like you should , then you have nothing to worry about from these guys , and checking in early will reduce the overall odds of it getting lost .
Depends on what you call " going Robinson Crusoe " . If it is about spending time alone on an uninhabited island , I guess the answer is " Sure " . I have met various people who did so , when they were sailing through the Caribbean . The options to do so is not limited to the Bahamas alone . I was told that it is relatively cheap to buy a yacht in that area from European sailors who after crossing the atlantic do n't feel the urge to experience yet again the gulf of Biscay . Those boats are typically quite worn out , which would add a bit to the Robinson Crusoe experience . So if it is only about being alone on a deserted island , just buy one of these boats and sail away . If " going Robinson Crusoe " , however means being lost for years , the fact that I have met various people who did spent time alone on an uninhabited island makes it impossible . Spending time on an island without being noticed by civilization for an extended period of time , is simply impossible given the number of people sailing the Caribbean . these days . PS . Robinson crusoe was stranded : " Who lived Eight and Twenty Years , all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America , near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroonoque " . The island is situated in front of the Guyana 's . There are quite some small islands over there , of which <URL> . Even devil 's island is not visible on <URL> . I have the impression that your chances on getting lost unnoticed in that area is higher then in the Bahamas . " Devil 's island is ofcourse not a good choice , but there are more of these small islands .
You probably want to ride the Airport bus from the ICN to Dongducheon ( # 7001 ) - the closest town to Yeoncheon , and take a taxi from there . It will save you time , money , and headaches . : : EDIT : : I am sorry that I did not carefully read your question . There is a way to get there . You can use what is referred to as " 콜택시 " and reserve a ride with a fixed price . Only operates in Korean , so ask a friend to arrange it if you ca n't yourself . <URL>
I am not sure about the skyscrapers , but it is definitely possible to access <URL> , which is right in the centre of the city .
end question
start question
I 've heard there are only two back-end solutions for airfare search . Does this mean I only need to search on two different sites ?
Short answer : No , that 's not the case . I think what you 've heard was a little mangled in the telling . There are indeed only three large airline <URL> ( GDS ) , which are the systems where both tariffs ( prices ) and reservations are created , stored and accessed . These are Travelport ( Galileo/Apollo/Worldspan ) , Amadeus and <URL> , the last of which you mentioned . Even these are n't quite universal though , as many low-cost airlines like Ryanair and Air Asia do n't participate . However , flight search is the next layer on top of this , which attempts to find the best flights and fares in these GDSes . This is a <URL> that continues to elude a single winner , and since anybody can purchase a GDS subscription and start doing searches , lots of startups do . So while the GDSes have <URL> , there are also third-party competitors like <URL> ( one of the most popular packages for doing this ) , some of the big boys like Expedia roll their own , and then there 's a whole slew of startups like Rome2Rio , Adioso and Hipmunk that all attempt to find some edge : <URL> mixes in trains and buses , <URL> lets you do really wide-open searches and combine with LCCs , <URL> factors in the " pain " of the itinerary etc. .
I was in Taiwan in August . Very few problems in Taipei ; there 's usually someone around who can speak some English , and failing that , hand signals and waving and pointing goes a long way . In addition , many of the signs are in English as well . Even in the markets , you could point , or some friendly person would take you where you wanted to go . Probably in the smaller towns it 'd be more difficult , but from my experiences in small towns in Russia / the stans / South America , it 's amazing how much you can communicate without language . If you really wanted , you could take some translation cards with common phrases printed in both languages , and show those to people . Also try to learn a few words , even basic ones like " where is " and " thank you " go a long way .
It means that the flight arrives next day . For example if the flight departs on 22:00 , 20th of AUG and arrives on 05:00 , 21st of AUG , then the will be shown to indicate that the arrival is next day . This usually happens in eastbound flights . Also , the other way around is true . A can be seen in flights that arrive in the previous day ! such as flights from Tokyo ( TYO ) to Los Angeles ( LAX ) .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
Yes , a single visa either B1 or B2 can be issued , but often they are combined . According to the official <URL> : Often , the B-1 and B-2 visas are combined and issued as one visa : the B-1 / B-2 . Now , the proof that single B1 or B2 visas are issued in some cases is the official statistics found on <URL> : As the table shows , they are issued separately but in small numbers . Why they are issued separately in some cases I have no idea and I could not find any information related to this in any official or non-official references . My guess is this totally depends on the interviewer at the consulate/embassy .
Short answer - no , not any more . ( It used to be possible pre-9 / 11 , but is n't allowed now ) To change between terminals airside at Heathrow , you need to go through Flight Connections . After the bit where they can issue boarding passes if you do n't have one , is the part where they check your boarding pass . No boarding pass for a different terminal , no access to the airside shuttle bus . Alternately , if you 're allowed to enter the UK , you could enter the UK in T5 , take the free train connection to T1/T2/T3 and walk the couple of minutes from there to T3 . However , you 'd then be stuck , as they would want to see a boarding pass before letting you into the security queue , and you wo n't have a T3 boarding pass , only a T5 one , so they wo n't let you in . . There is a workaround though if you want to do a ( significant ) amount of shopping . As described in <URL> at the end , Heathrow provides a <URL> . If you contact them in advance about it , they can apparently arrange for the item to be brought to another terminal so you can look at it and purchase . Apparently , if you have a lot of time , and it 's quiet , they might be able to arrange a transfer , but that part is n't guaranteed . That looks to be your only way . Well , other than booking a fully refundable ( check the T&amp;C closely ! ) ticket out of T3 , follow flight connections to T3 for that , shop , go online and cancel the ticket , ask customer services in T3 to " land " you , follow flight connections back to T5 on your onward boarding pass , then collapse in a heap on your return ... !
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
A flight number is simply that : a number for a flight , not a number for a plane . The planes are just an implementation detail to make flights happen .
I was in Hong Kong recently and there was nothing that appeared to be ' weekend only ' . I did n't see any change in how crowded things were at weekends compared with weekdays . Hong Kong is always incredibly crowded . We did try to visit the Hong Kong Museum of History on a Tuesday and found that it was closed every Tuesday . ( It is well worth it , by the way - we came back a different day ) You might find that other museums have a ' closing day ' too .
Do n't take it personally , that happens in other countries as well . It 's not common , but there are hostels in the US , Canada , and Europe that do n't allow people from their own country to stay there . So if it makes you feel any better , there are U.S. hostels that will happily accept you , but not a U.S. citizen . I ran into that once myself when I wanted to stay at a hostel here , so I know it is frustrating . The reasoning is some hostels are trying to create a particular social environment where you can interact with travelers from all different countries . It 's also a way to make sure guests really are people who are traveling , not just locals who need a place to crash , or someone who just arrived in town and is looking for temporary housing . At worse , some hostels that let anyone stay can end up looking more like a housing project or homeless shelter . It does solve that problem , but it is unfortunate that they also end up excluding people who really are visiting town from other parts of the country . I do n't think it 's a great policy , but that 's the reasoning behind it anyway .
The National Park Service has an arrangement where only a single company is granted an exclusive franchise to travel to or take guests to Alcatraz . Therefore , if you want to go to Alcatraz , there is only one company you can travel with , and private boats are forbidden . <URL> : Tickets for the Ferry to Alcatraz are available at the Alcatraz Cruises website , but they sell out fast so buy in advance . There are a few other websites when you search , but I ca n't vouch for any of them . What you could do to confirm is to call Alcatraz Cruises Box office : +1 415 981-7625 , or email them ( info@alcatrazcruises.com ) . However , even when I was in San Francisco last year , tickets were sold out online and it was n't possible to buy them in person on the day . However , that was Fleet Week , so your mileage may vary on a different week . I 'd drop them a line and see what your options are .
Get an Oyster Card or Use Your Contactless Payment Card If you plan on travelling a total of two journeys in two days then you wo n't need a 2-day travel ticket ( nor 2 day travel cards ) as that would be to expressive , as well as overkill . The simplest option would be to get two one way tickets covering the zones you need . These will definitely be cheaper than daily tickets . Having said this , your best bet is to get an <URL> , or even use your contactless payment card . Doing so you 'll get the cheapest possible rates for your travels , and your maximum expenditure will be capped to the same value as that of a day travel card covering the zones you transited . Indeed , <URL> : Only here for a short visit ? If you are only making one or two journeys when visiting London , pay as you go is the best option if you already have a contactless payment or Oyster card . If you do n't have one of these , you could consider getting an Oyster card which you can use whenever you visit London . Alternatively , you could buy single tickets , a Day Travelcard or a One Day Bus &amp; Tram Pass although these are all more expensive than using pay as you go . <URL> , by asking at the manned ticket counter . For more information <URL> , in terms of fares and usage . How About Buses ? When it comes to buses however , note that recently <URL> . This means that you can still purchase a single journey on a bus , but you 'll have to use your payment card . You can of course use your contactless card to take advantage of the reduced oyster fares . The other obvious options is to purchase an oyster card and use that to pay for the bus .
A little bit of history : ( from the top of my head , there is very little to find about this on the web I think , even in Spanish ) : At some point during the Cuban Revolution and before I was born , being in possesion of any foreing currencies in Cuba became illegal ( unless you had a special permit from the government ) . Many Cubans spent time in jail for this reason . Diplomats , tourists ( which were rare at that time ) and foreigners with a permanent or temporary residence were also allowed to use foreign currencies , and there were special stores ( with imported products that could not be found anywhere else in the country ) that only them could use , at that time these stores were commonly called " diplo-tiendas " . After the fall of the Berlin wall , Cuba started to fall into a deep and accelerated economical crisis , the Cuban government started to print an alternate currency that could also be used in those " special stores " , they allowed regular Cubans to use them and encouraged them to give away their gold and jewleries in exchange for this new currency . This currency was despectively called by Cubans as " chavito " ( no idea where the word came from , I was a child at that time ) and the name is still used today in a lesser degree . This was the start of the two currencies system . In 1994 , during the worst period of the economical crisis , the Cuban government decided to open the country for tourism , foreign investment , and small private business . At the same time , they legalized the possession of foreign currencies , and more of those " special stores " were built all around the country . They assumed at that time that only a small percent of Cubans would ever be able to go there , and this was all supposed to be a " short-term temporary measure " . Their goal was to keep tourist and foreign companies as segregated as possible from regular Cubans , but at the same time estimulate the flow of strong currencies into the country . They started to print yet another new currency that could be exchanged at a 1x1 rate with US dollars , and when you paid with " real dollars " for product and services , you would get your change in that alternate currency unless you explicitly requested otherwise . Later on in 2004 the government decided to forbid using foreign currencies at stores and hotels , and they forced Cubans and tourist alike to exchange their foreign currencies by the Cuban Convertible Pesos . And this is how the mess became permanent . The two currencies : Tourists are allowed to posses and to use CUP , but there are certain services and products that are subsidized by the Cuban government , just for Cubans ( like theaters , concerts , museums , movies and the food rations that all Cubans receive on a monthly basis ) . Tourists will have to pay a different price in CUC for those services , and of course there are no subsidized food rations for them . However it might still be a good idea to have some CUPs available , since buying food from street sellers and fruit/vegies stores or taking public transportation ( including the " shared " taxis called " boteros " ) is a lot more cost-effective when paid using CUP , specially if you have a Cuban friend ( and I mean a real friend ) to walk around with you . The main concern when using the two currencies are the scams , you need to know all the bills and coins of the two currencies . So we have Cuban Pesos ( CUP ) and Cuban Convertibles ( CUC ) The main difference between the bills are the colors , as you can see in the picture below , CUP are kind of monochromatic , while CUC have many colors in them : <URL> Another difference is the presence of monuments of historical characters in CUCs instead of the picture of the person found in CUPs . Note that CUP bills that are about 30 years old or more were also printed in many colors , but they are not longer used these days and it would be very unusual to come across one of these . The coins are also easy to tell apart , coins from CUC have all an octagon around them , and they are stamped with landscapes . Coins from CUP are all stamped either with a star or with a picture of an historical character , namely Che Guevara - 3 cup , Jose Marti - 1 cup and ( currently rarely found ) Camilo Cienfuegos - 0.40 cup . CUC Coins : <URL> CUP Coins : <URL> <URL> Recent events : The Cuban goverment is currently <URL> , for this reason CUP can now be spent almost everywhere ( but not the reverse ) , and when prices are displayed just in CUC the regular CADECA conversion rate will be applied if you want to use CUP . As of January 2016 , state-owned companies ( for example most of the stores and supermarkets ) are starting to accept some major credit cards as method of payment for goods and services ( VISA and MasterCard for example ) , at least in Havana , so you could also use that as a way of avoiding dealing with currencies . Note that every time you use a credit card , the store rep will ask for a piece of ID and collect as much personal info as he/she can , I guess it will take a few years before t
According to the <URL> , both are in Casper , at the First National Bank and the Hilltop National Bank .
From Melbourne International Airport , the cheapest option is to catch the bus to Broadmeadows and then the train from there . Total cost is $ 3.76 if you already have a Myki . It 's roughly 20 mins to Broadmeadows station and then about 30 mins by train to Southern Cross . From Avalon , the shuttle bus by <URL> is the cheapest at $ 22 . It takes about an hour . If there are multiple people travelling however , it may be cheaper to take a cab to Lara and catch the train from there . For just one person though , the coach is still cheaper than this more inconvenient option .
No , officially it is not possible to receive a passport check stamp for both flights . Source : I tweeted Ryanair if you could get the passport check stamp for both flights if one had two flights the same day and they were fast to respond that no , unfortunately not . <URL> That being said , I would for sure try and ask at your first departure if they would kindly also stamp your second boarding pass . I do not see anything airport - / flight-specific about the stamp as far as I can tell from <URL>
Disclaimer : I have n't stayed in either of those hotels . However I slept in love hotels , so the answer to your question " Are these kinds of hotels acceptable for regular tourists , who just need a place to sleep " , is Yes . There are a few things , however , to keep in mind : With love hotels , you are much more likely to get a windowless room . If this is a concern , call the hotel . Do not assume that the booking site will list your room as " windowless " ; sometime they do not . Myself I actually prefer those rooms as they tend to be much quieter , especially next to airport where most sound comes through the windows . Typical love hotel visitors do not come there to have an overnight sleep . Thus you might hear certain noise . Good hotels however do separate sleeping guest from the hourly guests ( usually by floor or put them in a different section ) . Make sure you tell the hotel at checking that you 're staying overnight and want to have a good sleep . Still bringing earplugs is not a bad idea . Some love hotels , notably in Japan , offer " rest " rates ( overnight sleep ) which is typically 10pm-8am . Once you get in , you have to stay until the morning - as soon as you leave , your stay ends . So if you leave , for example , to have a late dinner , your stay is finished . However hotels advertised at booking.com type websites typically do NOT do that and act more like a normal hotel ; this is more of a concern if you just walk in . Some love hotels might not check in a single guest , two people of the same sex , or more than two people . So if you 're traveling not as a ( different sex ) couple , you might check it with a hotel . Some love hotels only accept cash , even if they have the " Visa " sign . A typical excuse is " credit card machine not working " . So if you want to pay with a credit card , book on a site like Agoda or orbitz , which allow you to prepay for your stay . Do n't expect other hotel amenities like laundry or luggage storage . Mattresses there tend to be plastic-wrapped ( for obvious reasons ) , so it feels a bit differently . Also keep in mind that in those hotels you might get a better price by walking in , instead of booking in advance ( booking sites charge at least 10 % " service fee " ) . In some countries even the posted price could be negotiable . Just call/email the hotel before booking on the booking site and ask if they can give you a better price . Expect to pay cash in this case . Regarding issues , I have never had any in those hotels ; the rooms were same or cleaner comparing to " regular " hotels in a similar price range , and the soundproofing was better . There was never soliciting of any kind , and nobody knocks on your door/rings a phone .
There is always a possibility you will not be admitted . The visa waiver programme is intended for infrequent , short visits Immigration may find two entrances at maximum length separated by such a short space of time suspicious . I suspect you would not be denied entry , but you may be subject to extra questioning on your second entry which could take a few hours and be quite unpleasant . You will need to be ready to show that you have a plan to spend your time , that you are a tourist , that you have sufficient funds to sustain yourself , and you do not intend to defeat any immigration rules such as by overstaying or trying to work . It is up to you to prove this , not for US CBP to prove the opposite . It may be better to obtain a proper B2 six month tourist visa instead .
You 're unlikely to have much issue with the carry-on limitations with just one or two small items held in your hands . A cell phone and pair of earphones in your pocket certainly does n't count toward carry-on baggage limits . The bigger issue is the need to secure items in the cabin for takeoff and landing . Many airlines ( particularly US airlines in my experience ) will instruct passengers to stow laptops at this time ( as they can become dangerous projectiles in case of an emergency ) and specifically state that a seatback pocket is not an acceptable place to store a laptop . Many new seat designs have done away with seatback pockets all together as well . Laptops must be stored under the seat in front of you or in the overhead bin . These are not places I would want to leave a bare laptop ( laptops will slide on the plane 's carpet ) . As such , I 'd highly recommend at least a small inexpensive <URL> to protect your MacBook . At security , customs , and immigration , one issue is just physically handling your items ; navigating an airport with a bare laptop in hand is somewhat inconvenient ( how would you hang on to it while you went to the bathroom for instance ? ) and makes it easy to accidentally lose something . Quickly handing over your ID and scanning your boarding pass is difficult to do one-handed , and carrying a tray of food while trying to hold your laptop in your armpit can quickly become precarious . Furthermore , security officials are trained to be suspicious of people who do not fit into the normal pattern of travelers , and someone who has no bag and chooses to carry a laptop in his hands is at least a little unusual . It 's not that you would n't be allowed to travel , but an immigration officer might ask you more questions . At a minimum , the items would need to come out of your pockets at airport security . Beyond that , there are some additional items I like to carry with me when I travel even if I am checking the bulk of my luggage . Medications , if you take any , should never be checked , as you would have a problem on your hands if your bags are delayed or lost . A change of underwear and a spare t-shirt are a nice backup in cast of lost luggage too , and I generally want basic toiletries for long flights . On a long flight , it 's nice to be able to take keys and such out of my pockets for a little more comfort . All those things go inside my bag . Finally , where 's the charger for your MacBook in all this ? In short , while this can work , I ca n't really understand why you want to do this . There 's a reason you do n't see people clutching laptops in airports ; a small bag or laptop case is the simplest way to carry and protect your items . Most travelers have realized this and so bring one along . How is not using a bag more convenient ?
ITA has a 60-second time limit on its searches , so if any of its sources takes longer than this to return a result , those results are not included in the end-result . If that happens , and you do the same search again , even immediately , you can get drastically different results if one of the previously-slow sources responds faster . Undoubtedly every aggregate search engine has a time limit , although exactly what the time limit is , and how its implemented , is likely to vary drastically . But this is likely a major cause of an appearance of fluctuating prices .
end question
start question
Use United Airlines travel certificate for another passenger ?
So I ended up going to the source , <URL> . They 've just <URL> , saying that YES , they are transferable , and provided a <URL> : The link is basically instructions on use of one of these certificates , and from those instructions it 's merely a code , so not bound to any particular passenger .
It does not appear that any US passenger airlines currently operate flights within the EU . I assumed that if any such flight existed , it would be with one of the big four legacy airlines ( AA , UA , US , DL ) and at least one end would be at a major hub . I checked the Wikipedia pages for LHR , CDG , FRA and AMS , and none of them show flights on those carriers to other EU airports . However , based on those same Wikipedia pages , it does appear that the US cargo airlines FedEx Express and UPS Airlines operate many flights within the EU .
Of course ! For example , as a New Zealander , while I was in the UK I decided to go to South America , and later to Central Asia . I needed vaccinations , obviously . It was as simple as going to the doctor . Of course , in many countries it will cost you money , and you 're right , it 's probably not covered by insurance . I 've also had new prescriptions filled and even gotten <URL> . Health systems are usually available to anyone , just what you end up paying may differ to the locals . And whether it 's covered by insurance is entirely dependent on your policy . ( from <URL> ) Whatever you do , if you have that yellow booklet of all your vaccinations , take that with you for them to sign and document , so that you have an official record of them . It 's come in handy for me on more than one occasion .
Yes , you can - of sorts . When you redeem the voucher you will need to mail it to AA ( or take it to an airport location ) . After it is processed , they will mail you a new paper voucher for the remaining value ( presuming it is more than $ 5 ) . This process normally takes ( at least ) a few weeks , so there will be a window where you will not be able to use the remaining credit , but when it is issued the new visa will have a 1 year expiry .
You can always apply . There is no specific delay between applications in the UK or Schengen area ( even to the same country , let alone to different countries ) and no automatic ban or anything like that following a mere refusal . However , you may want to be careful to address the problem raised in the UK visa refusal because , even though some of the rules and guidelines are slightly different , Schengen consulates tend to have similar concerns .
Most airlines do n't charge extra for stopovers ( in fact , more often , they charge less , because the route is less convenient than a non-stop flight ) . They like to advertise " free stopovers " to make you think this is a great benefit they are giving you . For example , if you are flying from New York to Dubai , the rich business traveller is going to want to take Emirates nonstop . Since Emirates is the only airline operating that route nonstop , they can charge whatever they want ( it 's showing as $ 2270 right now ) . Meanwhile , British Airlines , Qatar , Air France , KLM , United , Delta , and Royal Jordanian would all love to take your money on that route , but they ca n't do it nonstop , so they offer cheaper fares ( now showing $ 1186 - $ 1782 ) with connections in their home airports ( London , Doha , Paris , Amsterdam , Washington , Atlanta , and Amman , respectively ) . And they will all be happy to let you stay over in their home town for a day or six without extra charge if it induces you to tolerate the connection . Since very few people actually WANT to go to Iceland , and connecting in Reykjavik is hardly anybody 's idea of a good time , Icelandair has to advertise " Free Stopovers " to induce people to think this is a great bargain and a fun thing to do . IN FACT , in many cases , you will find cheaper fares from A - > B - > C - > B - > A than you will find from A - > B - > A , because of the premium placed on nonstop travel . To find " free stopovers " , just do an online search for your end point , and look at the various connection cities that are available . ( <URL> does a good job of this ) . Then if you want to book it , redo the search as a multilegged trip and you should see that the calculated fare is the same or even cheaper depending on travel days . So for example , if you want to see what stopovers are available from New York to Dubai , you do the search in Hipmunk and you 'll see various flights connecting in London , Doha , Paris , Amsterdam , Washington , Atlanta , and Amman . So now you can search for multi-legged journeys from New York to Paris to Dubai to New York and the fare should come out similar to the Paris connection option . ( I actually just tried that and saw that it was about $ 30 more , which is probably just an airport tax ) . The best stopover options are in major cities where large airlines have their hubs . So even though Lufthansa is n't advertising anything on the New York to Dubai route , I 'm pretty sure that I could search for New York - Frankfurt - Dubai - New York and find a fare that was pretty cheap compared to the New York - Dubai nonstop . ( I just tried that and it was $ 800 less to stop in Frankfurt than to go nonstop , and only $ 100 more than the cheapest connection ) . If you are planning to stopover anyway , that may create an opportunity to travel on Tuesday or Wednesday when fares are lowest .
No , you do n't technically get the same status on other airlines . And it ca n't be requested . How it works is that Star Alliance has 2 generic levels of status - Star Alliance Gold and Star Alliance Silver . Each particular airline status corresponds to one of these two statuses . For example , if you 're a Silver at Continental , you 're also a Star Alliance Silver member . If you 're Platinum or Gold at Continental , you 're a Star Alliance Gold member . You can check out the equivalent for your particular airline at this page : <URL> What this means is that , if you have your frequent flyer number entered on all your reservations , when you fly with other airlines in Star Alliance , they will see that you are Gold/Silver and give you benefits accordingly ( lounge access , priority boarding , fast track ) . You can also earn miles with your own airline whenever you fly a Star Alliance member airline . However , this is n't the same as being a member of the other airline 's FFP . For one thing , airlines often restrict reward availability to partner rewards and retain some of the inventory for their own members . E : I wanted to add that you can technically ask for status on other airlines , if you are planning to switch all your flying to them . You can contact them and ask for a " status match " , which they will give you if they think you 're a high value passenger , and usually you 'll have to fly a certain amount within a certain number of weeks to retain the status .
Yes , something has changed . As explained in <URL> , the change was announced in June 2014 , and went live in March 2015 United have put up a fairly good <URL> , which I 'd suggest you review . The number of miles you get , when flying on United or United Express now depends on two things : How much you spent What status you have with United A base member will earn 5 MileagePlus miles per dollar spent , while a Premier 1K gets 11 . Partner flights are different though , they seem to be close ( r ? ) to the old style of earnings . The key part of it is these two tables here : If you want to know more , there 's a <URL> and a <URL> , if you wade through enough posts there you 'll find everything you wanted to know on the change and the impact , amongst everything else ...
You should bring your passport , you do n't need anything in addition to this . Northern Ireland is part of the UK , so it 's a domestic trip with no " immigration " or similar . However , almost all airlines require passengers to have photo ID ( for their own commercial reasons - basically to ensure that person flying is the same as the person named on the ticket ) and a passport is the best form of photo ID for a non-European citizen to use .
You do n't need a passport to fly within the US . As long as you have your driver 's license , that is enough to get you through TSA check points . It 's when you travel outside the US that you will need your passport . Here 's a list of acceptable IDs from the official TSA website : <URL>
United Does honor IATA Resolution 302 . Simple as that . Where you are going wrong is confusing marketing carrier and operating carrier . Your flight from Newark to Tokyo may have a ANA flight number , but it 's operated by United , and when it comes to baggage ( including IATA 302 ) , it 's the operating carrier that is important . Under IATA 302 , the airline that flies you Newark to Tokyo is the Most Significant Carrier , and thus it is their baggage rules that apply . United has recently changed many of their international baggage charges , and from the 1st of June , for flights from the US to Japan , the first bag is free , whilst the second bag is $ 100 ( presuming you do not have United/Star Alliance status ) . It is these rules that apply for your flight , not those of the marketing carrier ( ANA ) .
Yes indeed , most US airlines charge for all check baggage . There are exceptions if you have " status " with either the airline themselves or with any of their affiliated airlines ( eg , Star Alliance , OneWorld , etc ) , or if you 're flying in First Class , or if you 're connecting from an international flight , or if you have one of their pay-for credit cards , but for most occasional domestic travellers you 'll be charged to check any bags . The fees vary from airline to airline , but are generally fairly similar . International trips are higher , although most airlines still do not charge for ( at least ) the first bag for most international trips . The fees are available on their airlines websites . eg , for both <URL> and <URL> it 's $ 25 for the first checked bag , and $ 35 for a second checked bag for domestic flights , and whilst the first bag is free for international flights the second will cost you up to $ 100 . <URL> depends on the type of ticket you have purchased , but is generally $ 25 for each of the first two check bags . The main exception to the above is <URL> , who do not charge anything to check your first 2 bags ( with standard weight limits/etc ) . Some airlines , such as <URL> , charge different rates depending on whether you pay for your checked bags in advance ( $ 28 / $ 35 for domestic up to 40 pound/18kg ) or at the airport ( $ 38 / $ 45 ) . Mind you , Spirit also charge you between $ 20 and $ 45 ( up to $ 100 starting in November ! ) for your carry-on bag , so avoiding them completely is generally the best option .
Yes , it is correct and fine to wipe your hand , face , neck with it , be it with hot or cold towels . You can see that pretty much everywhere in Asia . In Japan , you will be given one at hairdressers to specifically to wipe your face with it . Specially when it 's hot and humid outside , a cold towel on your neck is something very nice !
As a general rule of thumb airlines do not ban children from any level of service , they will sell tickets to anyone with the cash . My daughter has flown in business class on several airlines without issue and I have seen plenty of kids in business and first class on all the airlines I fly . There are likely some destinations served where cultures keep children separate from adults or relegated to a lower status . On routes serving these destinations , some airlines may try to keep children out of the upper class , to keep the local business travelers who frequent the route happy . And I know some airlines have tried to introduce quiet zones , by banning kids , but boisterous , non-stop talking adults are just as bothersome as the kid who cries occasionally .
There is a priority access lane at the security checkpoints used by UA . DTW &amp; UA are also on the <URL> list . That would be the better bet . Get pre-authorized by TSA and go through even quicker than priority . One thing to think about , however , is that TSA-Pre gets you through security faster and that 's it . Premier Access gets you boarded quicker ( usually ) , or " before the unwashed masses , " as the premier forums all call us regular folk . ( Personal Op-Ed here : I would n't take premier access if you gave it to me , or at least wo n't use it . I do n't like planes , and prefer to sit in the lounge until the absolutely last minute , but that 's just me . )
It is possible ( for an unusually knowledgeable travel agent ) , but not easy . There are two fields in the PNR for each airline , the FQTV field ( frequent traveller number for mileage earning ) and the FQTS field ( frequent traveller number for status purposes ) . These can be set to different values . But airline IT systems are not always designed to understand that this can happen , so even if you manage to find a travel agent who understands what you are talking about , it is not guaranteed to work . If you use a tool like the free MyFlights tool , it will tell you which numbers you have attached to the booking and whether they are FQTV or FQTS ( or another type of FQT number ) . MyFlights is only available for Amadeus bookings .
On 24 April 2015 all existing visitor visas , including family visitor , business visitor , student visitor , child visitor , and others were automatically converted to the ' standard visitor visa ' . So yes , your father can go on a vaction to the UK or do any of the other activities listed in Appendix 3 ( Permitted Activities ) in <URL> of the rules . The controlling link if you are interested is the <URL> .
No . I am also registered with Uber in London and have successfully used it in Amsterdam , Cape Town , and other cities . It 's the same account , same process . Of course , you 'll be billed in local currency - and do n't forget you may have to pay roaming data fees on your phone contract .
You can use child carriers like the Ergo Baby carriers for transporting your infant on and off the plane , but they not appropriate to use while seated / seat belted . Once you are on the plane , the safest position for your infant is in a car seat ( but that means buying a seat for the infant , unless you are lucky and have a half empty flight ) or being held in your lap . You never want to buckle your seat belt around yourself and the infant . Some airlines have a second little seat belt that attaches outside your seat belt for the infant , but these are not real safe and not allowed in some countries .
I am no definite expert on the topic but this customization of a flight , called <URL> , are usually marketed to travel agents as a profit generator . First let 's clarify the different actors . The airlines offer and operate flights , the GDS ( Global Distribution System ) companies distribute the flights to travel agents and the latter sell to the traveller ( you ) . The travel agents can be your local travel agent in his office , the online travel agent ( OTA ) like Expedia , Opodo or Kayak , or the airline itself through its website , phone service or offices . In all cases the travel agent <URL> to the customer . The travel agent probably pays to implement the service distribution ( to the GDS ) and receives a fee per transaction made . As meal selection is not generally a lucrative option - it is usually free of charge and I think religious or allergic people would react badly if they had to pay to get a specific meal - it is not worth offering for the travel agents . As @drat commented , the airlines have also little incentives ( and higher logistic costs ) to offer them . So it makes sense not to offer meal choice directly online . Note that some OTAs offer a free text field at the end of the booking without promising it will be read by anyone ( I have seen that on govoyages , for example ) . In the case of Emirates and Singapore Airlines , I have in mind that their image is based on open-mindedness , globalization and respect of the culture of the travellers . I insist on the fact that it is the image I have , you might not feel the same . But offering a choice of meal is a good marketing argument for a world-wide growing airline . On the opposite , Air Transat mostly targets Canadians visiting the Caribbean and transatlantic travellers , with less of a variety of travellers . Offering a large variety of meals would be more a burden than a marketing argument to them . And Air Transat offers ancillary services on their website like seat selection , so it is a deliberate choice not to offer meal selection . In the end , I suppose that the reasons are economical . It costs less to offer less choice and not to prepare too many meals . It depends on the travel agent you buy your tickets from , but there is no rule for who offers meal selection or does not . If it matters a lot , you can try to buy your ticket from another travel agent , it might work better .
end question
start question
Single trip to conferences in two Schengen countries with one visa ?
We can only offer opinions on this , but your situation sounds perfectly sensible to me , especially since you have previously been granted a Schengen visa and do n't even need a multiple-entry visa . It does n't really matter if the previous visa was granted by the Netherlands or Switzerland , because it 's all in the same database now . Just make sure you get invitations to both conferences , proof of funds to cover the entire period , travel insurance and fulfill <URL> . And as stated in the answers to <URL> , you do not need to enter via the country that granted you the visa .
When it comes to traveling within the Schengen area , a type D visa is equivalent to a regular residential permit . You are basically allowed to visit other Schengen countries for up to 90 days within a 6 month period . There are some caveats - you must carry your passport or equivalent travel documents , be able to document the purpose of your visit ( going on holiday should be enough ) , document your ability to finance the trip , be of no danger to national security or public health and not have been specifically expelled from the country you are traveling to . Since there is no immigration control on the borders between Schengen states , these requirements are in most cases rather theoretical . If however you should be checked , you probably save a lot of hassle if you have the required documentation handy .
If you only enter mainland China once , the single entry Chinese visa is enough . EU national does n't need a visa to enter HK or Taiwan , which are , despite PRC official beliefs , not Chinese countries from a travel standpoint . They have their own visa policies , citizens of those nations have a unique passport , etc. . You will not be able to enter Shenzhen using the same visa as before , you will need to acquire another . You can get a 5 day Zhenzhen only visa .
Yes , there is a premium service provided by VFS called " Premium Service Lounge " . I have got an appointment on same date by this facility . It is really great service by VFS and everything will be done very easily . The Premium Lounge Service includes : Separate lounge with personalized service by dedicated staff Refreshments Faster submission of applications at the visa application center Courier return of passport SMS alert on the status of your application Photocopying and photo booth service for your documents Important note : Your visa application will be processed and decided by the French Consulate in Bangalore , Use of the Premium Service Lounge does not affect the processing time of your application .
If you were storing a few bags for one day , or one bag for a few days , you might have more options . To leave a few bags for a few days , however , you will need to do some legwork . The first place I would check would be with your hotel in San Francisco . Some hotels are more willing to do this than others , and storage conditions may vary widely -- a locked room in some cases , stacked in a corner behind the desk in others . It is extremely common for guests to ask that bags be held for a few hours on the day of checkin or checkout ; asking for multiple days is worth a shot , especially if you are staying there for several days , and most especially if you are staying there before and after the excursion . Generous tips ( before and after ) to the concierge or bell desk may help . The second place I would check is with the motorcycle rental agency . You 're hardly the first people to not want to lug suitcases around on the back of a bike . I know EagleRider and MotoQuest explicitly do offer luggage storage as a complimentary service . I would also check to see if any private clubs you are a member of have reciprocal relationships with San Francisco-area private clubs , and if they have facilities you could leave the bags at . For example , members of the <URL> can request an invitation from the <URL> . It 's a thought . But there 's little incentive for a company or other organization with no relationship with you to accept . They do n't want to store , or be accused of storing , anything dangerous or illegal , and they do n't want responsibility for the bags or anything in them being stolen . The only public left luggage facility in San Francisco proper , so far as I can tell , is at the <URL> at <URL> ( toward the eastern end of Fisherman 's Wharf ) , which charges $ 5 per bag . The lady with whom I just spoke on the phone , however , says they do not permit overnight storage . You could call around to other hotels and hostels and see by trial and error if anyone will take them on . The Chancellor Hotel comes up in some web searches as an option . The Pacific Tradewinds Hostel <URL> storage to its guests . Now , maybe you do n't care to stay there , but at $ 32/night , booking a bunk that stays empty would still be cheaper than the airport ATA . The <URL> and <URL> say they offer luggage storage facilities , but I could not find any information on the services , prices , or policies . Online comments about the temporary transbay bus terminal are universally negative . Emeryville is not especially easy to get to by public transportation , either ; you would need to take BART to <URL> then the <URL> shuttle bus . Speaking of BART , I have seen some people advise renting a bicycle locker , but this takes a lot of advance planning , and presumably , a local address for your application form , only to leave your bags half-exposed to the elements and at risk of theft . I do n't recommend it . Further down the list , you could rent a car , stick the bags in the trunk , and find someplace safe and cheap to park for the duration of your excursion . I extended a rental car for a day once precisely for this purpose in Hawaii , but have no recommendations for the Bay Area .
It actually is odd that the carrier chose to do this but it 's quite simple though not very well explained on the Greyhound Website . When you look at <URL> site it becomes clear . Instead of one connection in Buffalo , you actually have 2 in Syracuse and Buffalo even though the bus schedule number/route number does n't change in Syracuse .
There is no such thing as a " tourist " Schengen visa . Indeed , you wo n't find any information about " categories " of short stay visas in the regulation because there are only three types of Schengen visas : short stay visas , airport transit visas ( which do not allow the holder to get out of the airport ) and limited territorial validity visa ( for special cases including some refugees or diplomats ; you wo n't get one without knowing ) . All regular short stay Schengen visas cover a range of different purposes , including attending conferences . On the other hand , lying on the application ( i.e. pretending you are going to do some tourism when you want to attend a conference ) is obviously not OK . But if you hold a multiple-entry visa and already used it for the trip you mentioned in the application , then it 's completely fine to use it for other purposes . Be aware that border guards can check that you fulfil the conditions of your visa at any time and therefore inquire about your income , purpose , etc. when crossing the border , even though you had to explain all this to get the visa in the first place . So it 's good to have documents to establish the purpose of your trip in case someone asks . See <URL> to know what those documents are in your case . See also <URL> <URL> or <URL> for detailed explanations of what you can and can not do with a Schengen visa in a range of related situations .
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
Ah , German nitpicking ... Willkommen in Deutschland ! But have no fear , since this is Germany there 's a well-defined process for appealing . The German Embassy in Manila , Philippines has a <URL> about how to apply for a " remonstration against " ( their term ! ) the visa rejection , and I 'm sure more or less the same process applies for the Chennai consulate . Quoting the relevant bits : You can remonstrate only in writing , and your remonstration must contain the following details : Your name , first name , date of birth , place of birth , and the number of your passport The date your application was rejected A serviceable address that contains the street name , house - or apartment number , City / Town / Village , postal code , if applicable : please state your e-mail address The remonstration must be signed by your own hand ( a remonstration by a third party e.g. your sponsor , can only be accepted and processed if you have given your sponsor a power of attorney , which is submitted with the remonstration ) . And If you applied for a visa of the category " C " ( Schengenvisa ) , the deadline for filing the remonstration is one ( 1 ) month after your received the letter of rejection . You can submit by mail , fax or e-mail , but if e-mail , you have to send in a scan of a printed letter with your signature . And obviously the better you can explain the discrepancy ( a revised letter and/or note from your office should do nicely ) , the higher the chances of success . Incidentally , if your remonstration also fails you can apparently try once more with the High Court in Berlin , but that 's probably a bit overkill for a tourist visa ...
In general , it does not make sense to appeal for something like that . Whether an appeal is likely to succeed depends on the specifics of your situation and it 's not a good idea to discuss all this on this site . You would need help from a Greek legal professional ( which is presumably neither cheap nor easy to get from Abu Dhabi ) to get an informed opinion about this . But even if you have solid grounds for an appeal , it can take a ( very ) long time and it 's impossible to do without knowing the local language and legal system ( that 's always true but the letter you received even states as much in the last paragraph ) . Additionally , the letter also suggests that lodging an appeal by post without formally hiring a lawyer is simply not possible in Greece ( it is in other Schengen countries ) , which makes any appeal more expensive than a fresh application , even if you know Greek and feel confident drafting it yourself . So in practice you are not going to quickly get satisfaction and save your trip that way . You will only receive an answer several months from now , long after your bookings have expired and your holidays are over . At this point , there wo n't even be a valid premise for your application ( it makes no sense to issue a visa for a trip supposed to take place in the past ... ) An appeal only really makes sense if you have strong legal arguments and no hope to succeed in another application ( and of course for long-stay visas but that 's another thing entirely ) . Alternatively , you could still lodge a fresh application . Even taking the fees , documents , etc. into account it would still be much cheaper than an appeal and definitely quicker . But only do that if you think there is something you could add to make your case stronger ( detailed itinerary , bookings , etc. ) without making you look unreliable ( do n't make up a story ) , otherwise you risk getting a new refusal and damaging your credibility for the future .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
Website you mentioned in the question , covers <URL> . Also , bus operator has a handy <URL> tool . What you probably want to search , is the route from <URL> . You will have to switch buses at Borgarnes ( from no. 57 to no. 58 ) . Make sure the driver will drop you off where you want though . You can also try hitchhiking from Borgarnes . In the summer there are a lot of tourists and Snaefellsnes peninsula is quite popular destination . Also , make sure to be dropped off at the road to the farm south of Eldborg ( Snorrastadir ) and take an " official " trail from there . As far as I recall , there is a fence around the crater area ( it 's nature 's reserve I think ) and the terrain around it is quite difficult . You can also sleep at this farm if need be - there is camping site , showers , kitchen etc. . EDIT : I highly recommend to use this instead of Google maps , it is just much better ( you can see the trails etc. ) : <URL>
Since there is apparently no " main destination " in your trip , your visa application should be processed by the first Schengen state you will enter , in your case Germany . This is from article 5 of the Schengen visa code ( Regulation ( EC ) No 810/2009 ) : The Member State competent for examining and deciding on an application for a uniform visa shall be : ( a ) the Member State whose territory constitutes the sole destination of the visit ( s ) ; ( b ) if the visit includes more than one destination , the Member State whose territory constitutes the main destination of the visit ( s ) in terms of the length or purpose of stay ; or ( c ) if no main destination can be determined , the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter the territory of the Member States . [ I highlighted the most important bit ] The border between Germany and Austria is an " internal border " , which is why there will be no systematic passport check when landing in Vienna . Frankfurt is where you will cross the external border to enter the Schengen area ( which is called " territory of the Member States " in the official regulation ) .
First , I 'm going to offer a generic solution that I still think will solve your problem . There are a couple of paid services , <URL> and <URL> ( there 's a referral link in my profile ) . You pay a small amount , set a price you want to beat , and their experts will find you something cheaper . If they ca n't , you lose nothing ( I 've had them fail once and I got my money back ) . But they 've also saved me tons . ( disclaimer , I sometimes compete on their site as one of the experts ) . Secondly , and this will actually address the issue with one-way flights in South America - it 's worth noting that it 's fairly common in South America to find return flights for far less than one-way flights . My friend , flying from La Paz ( Bolivia ) to Santiago de Chile was going to buy a one-way , then saw the price of a return was about half . So he bought the return and just did n't use the second segment . So yes , you can do that . Check if it 's possible to cancel the return leg for a refund , although I suspect that 's unlikely - but at the least , it 's still cheaper than the one-way ;)
The issue comes up often and unfortunately , there is no perfect solution for this scenario . A multiple-entry visa would of course be a good one but those are mostly intended for trusted travellers who have been to the Schengen area before and have a reason to visit the same country repeatedly . You can always ask but you ca n't really make sure you will get one . If you were planning a single trip with several destinations , you should apply to the country that will be your main destination ( e.g. where you spend the most time ) , the regulation is very clear on that . But in this case , you are really doing two distinct trips and there are no guarantees that either consulate would be willing to issue a visa covering both . If you have the time and money for it , you could also spend the time between June 12 and June 23 in either Austria or Italy . You would then have a single trip with a clear main destination and could apply for a single-entry visa accordingly . For two distinct trips , the most straightforward approach would be to apply for a visa for the first trip , use it , come back to your country of residence and only then apply for a visa for the second trip . If you still have all the documents from the first application and you can show that you used the first visa correctly ( i.e. you did n't cheat ) , getting another one should be very easy . But 10 days is a short time to get a visa ( although if everything else fails , it 's not necessarily impossible so keep that as a back-up solution ) . You could also apply for both visas in advance ( in April-May ) , starting with Austria and then Italy . My understanding is that as long as they do n't overlap , it should be possible for the Italian consulate to issue a visa even before you used your Austrian visa . You would need to pay twice of course but you would otherwise be certain to be able travel as you wish . What you need to avoid is getting something like a single-entry Austrian visa valid for the whole month of June because it would not be enough for your trips but would prevent you from applying for another visa from Italy before using the Austrian one . Another solution in your case would be applying to Italy first , as soon as possible . If you are lucky , they might issue a multiple-entry or two-entry visa valid for June-July , and you are set . If they only give you a single-entry visa valid from June 23rd , you could still apply for another single-entry visa from Austria to cover the first trip . And if they decline to process the application , you still have time to lodge another one with either Italy or Austria and you have lost nothing ( in the case , the consulate should refund the application fee and return the documents ) . Whatever you do , you can always write a cover letter explaining your situation and join it to the application . Hopefully it will help the consular officer understand the problem and issue what you need . Also make sure to double-check all the documents and to have a very strong application . If you have everything ready , it will be easy to resubmit it to the other consulate if needed and ensure it will processed in a timely manner . Finally , if you get an Italian visa , be aware that the Austrian border guards might ask you about it . If they ask , simply explain why you did it this way and have all documents pertaining to your Italian trip with you , if they want to see them .
The first thing to note is that there are in principle no situations in which you are free to choose where you should lodge your application . The rule is that you have to apply to the consulate of your main destination country serving your place of residence and , if there is no main destination , to the relevant consulate of the country through which you will enter the Schengen area . If you are planning a tour involving several countries , you could plan to stay a little longer somewhere or add a transit to target a specific country but this always involve adjusting your stated itinerary . The visa fee are defined in the visa code and thus exactly the same for all countries/consulates ( $ 60 for most pople , $ 35 for children between 6 and 12 and nationals of a handful of countries , and free for some special categories of applicants including infants and family members of EU citizens ) . Some consulates outsource some part of the process to a subcontractor ( often VFS Global , but France uses a company called TLScontact ) and they can add a processing fee on top of that . But that 's consulate-specific rather than country-specific . The documentary requirements should be more-or-less the same . The actual legal requirements ( and thus the standard an applicant has to meet and the valid reasons to refuse an application ) are also defined in the Schengen visa code and thus fully harmonized . That said , the requirements in question are pretty high-level requirements , e.g. " documents in relation to accommodation , or proof of sufficient means to cover his accommodation " which does leave quite a bit of room for interpretation . One example would be visits to friends and family : You need an official invitation but getting one involves quite a bit of hassle and the requirements do vary from one country to the next . However , it 's not easy to use these differences to your advantage as you obviously have to get the invitation from the place where your sponsor lives ... I do n't have any recent statistics at hand but those I have seen a few years ago show that there are indeed rather sizable differences in the refusal rates from one country to the next . However it 's not clear that targeting a country with a lower refusal rate can really help you . Among many other factors , consider this : There are also large differences in the origin of the applications processed by each country 's consular network . For example , Belgium processes nearly all applications for Schengen visas lodged in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( the Belgian embassy there runs something called the <URL> and handles applications on behalf of 18 different Schengen countries ) and this represents a large part of all applications processed by Belgium worldwide . There are many reasons why applications from the DRC tend to be weaker , or perhaps examined more rigorously than elsewhere and the refusal rate is indeed high , driving Belgium 's average up . But this is certainly not predictive of the odds of getting a visa from the Belgium consulate in London for a UK resident with a stable situation .
We can only offer opinions on this , but your situation sounds perfectly sensible to me , especially since you have previously been granted a Schengen visa and do n't even need a multiple-entry visa . It does n't really matter if the previous visa was granted by the Netherlands or Switzerland , because it 's all in the same database now . Just make sure you get invitations to both conferences , proof of funds to cover the entire period , travel insurance and fulfill <URL> . And as stated in the answers to <URL> , you do not need to enter via the country that granted you the visa .
The main way to simplify this process is to use the services of an agent . There are a few that specialise in this and you would want to vet them a bit before putting your money , passport and credibility in their hands so I am not going to name any . But I heard about a handful that would for example arrange visas for Russia and many central Asian countries as a " package " ( you provide an itinerary and your passport and they arrange invitations , send your passport to the relevant consulates for you , etc. ) As a <URL> , if you do not want to go to Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East , this area ( central Asia and the former Soviet Union ) is probably the most troublesome . You will need a visa or some formalities in advance for ten or twenty other countries ( India , China , North Korea , Iran , Belarus , Vietnam ... ) but you are lucky enough to be able to visit most of the world with little or no formalities ( Europe is wide open without so much as a concern about overstaying in the Schengen area , the Americas are visa-free for you and many South-East Asian countries merely require a visa-on-arrival which is easy to get without any trip to an embassy beforehand ) . The thing is is that , outside the Schengen area , visas are entirely each country 's prerogative . Nobody can issue a " global " visa , it 's not a mere technical issue but fundamentally at odds with the way international law and passports/visa work . One way or the other , you must obtain an authorisation to enter from each country you want to visit so having someone secure them for you one-by-one is the best you can do . In fact , trips to various consulates are not the main difficulty with getting visas for a round-the-world journey . The main issue if you want to do it all at once and in a short time is that you often can not get visas more than 2-3 months in advance and will often have to wait for them ( at least of few days , possibly weeks ) so that getting all the visas all at once before the journey might be impossible . It might also be difficult to apply from a country where you are not a resident , meaning you ca n't always get what you need on the road and might therefore need to return to Belgium once or twice in the middle of the trip . Beyond visa-free travel , your location and citizenship have a few other advantages . It 's ( much ) more expensive but Belgium offers special passports with more pages and tend to issue them quickly , which would ease the process . And with the European institutions and everything , many countries have a representation in Brussels so at least you do n't have to travel very far to find their nearest consulate ( according to Wikipedia , there are <URL> more than in Paris , Berlin or London ; by comparison Greece has 80 or so and Malta has only 20 ) .
I got my Italy tourist visa approved today with Multiple entry option for 15 days for a 30 day period . I did include all the details about wife in the cover letter and included copies of her residence permit and deputation letter from her Indian employer , her flight tickets as well as additional the documents .
end question
start question
How do I prevent damage to electronic devices at airport security ?
Millions of smartphones and 10 's ( if not 100 's ) of thousands of Kindles/E-book readers go through airport scanners every day . So far I believe the number that have apparently been damaged by airport scanner stands at about 2 for Kindle , and I 've never heard of a smartphone being damaged by any form of scanners . ( And in the case of the Kindles there 's serious doubt it was caused by the X-ray machine , and not simply broken in the customer bags ) In general the only items that should not be put through the standard X-ray machine are very high ISO film ( 800 or higher ) and some very specialized medical devices ( and if you had one of those , you 'd already know about it ) . You are far more likely to cause damage to your phone by dropping it when trying to put it in the tray than you are having it broken by the equipment itself . There is no need to remove your Kindle from your carry-on bag , so just make sure it 's packed well and you 'll be fine . If you 're carrying a laptop you WILL need to remove that from your bag ( unless you have a special TSA-approved laptop bag ) - again the only real risk is in dropping it or forgetting to collect it afterwards .
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
This kind of information changes very frequently , depending on how the owners of EDI price FastTRACK access and what airlines are willing to pay or pass through to passengers . Even at Heathrow , a vastly busier airport , access may change in a matter of months . FlyerTalk is generally reliable for such information , and according to various threads as of June 2013 , FastTrack access is reportedly complimentary for British Airways Silver and Gold members , and those ticketed in Business UK , Club Europe/World , and First Class ( I believe BMI Diamond Club has been fully integrated into the BA program ) Sapphire and Emerald-level members of OneWorld airline programs , anecdotally -- EDI is not listed on <URL> EasyJet passengers with " Speedy Boarder " access or EasyJet + cards Flybe passengers with " Flybe Plus " cards Air France Gold and Platinum members flying on CityJet You can buy Fast Track access from the vending machine for # 5 , and it is also included with some parking packages . I could not confirm any information for the other major airlines there , which include Aer Lingus , Air Canada , Germanwings , KLM , Lufthansa , Norwegian , Ryanair , Scandinavian , Thomas Cook , Turkish , and United .
Yes , the regulations did change both in the US and in Europe . There is an older question about <URL> , where I recently added an <URL> explaining the change of rules of both the <URL> and the EASA . For your specific case with Swiss , the change by the EASA is responsible . Their <URL> states : The EU 's Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) has today updated its guidance on the use of portable electronic devices on board ( PED ) , including smartphones , tablets and e-readers . It confirms that these devices may be kept switched on in " Flight Mode " ( non-transmitting mode ) throughout the journey ( including taxiing , take-off and landing ) without a risk to safety . and then goes on The updated safety guidance published today refers to portable electronic devices ( PED ) used in non-transmitting mode , better known as " flight mode " . It allows , for the first time , the use of personal electronic devices in flight mode in all phases of the journey , from gate to gate . Swiss adopted this and reflected it in their regulations starting May 1 , 2014 . See this <URL> for example . Other European airlines are also starting to permit this . I am however not sure how the rules changed in other parts of the world .
At about mid summer in 2003 - the hottest summer ever recorded until then - we saw substantial quantities of snow on north facing slopes in Yosemite at around 3200 metres altitude . This was <URL> looking South East across Ellery Lake . As that was substantially lower than your 3900 metres , on a probably hotter year and close to midsummer , you 'd be wise to allow for snow as a distinct possibility , but not a certainty . In late June 2003 , the then hottest year on record , we travelled by car from Mono Lake into Yosemite . The road rises to around 9600 feet at the highest point at Ellery lake , and the road then remains at about that level for some miles . There was no snow immediately near the the road anywhere but when we got to Ellery Lake there were substantial amounts of snow on the slopes on the far side of the lake . These are more shadowed north side slopes rising to about 11,000 feet . Your 3,900 metre road is at 12,800 feet ( ! ) which is well above the level we saw snow at . Further into the park from Ellery lake the top map says " Closed winter " but the altitude is about the same as at Ellery Lake . Location <URL> - viewpoint and direction of view about right . Snow may hav ebeen somewhat higher up slope than shown . Photos available .
The CBP/TSA have recommendations from both their own and external parties about certain individuals for whatever reasons - innocuous , cautionary or other , indicating that their recommendation is that said individual not be allowed to board a flight . For example , the <URL> : CDC provides " Do Not Board " recommendations to CBP and the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA ) regarding individuals who may be infected with a highly contagious disease , present a threat to public health , and should be prevented from traveling to the United States via commercial aircraft . TSA is performing vetting of all airline passengers coming to , departing from or flying within the U.S. to identify matches to the " Do Not Board " list and flag matched individuals ' records in the Secure Flight system to prevent the issuance of a boarding pass . So at this point , you do what the note tells you - you ( hopefully with the ground staff ) contact the TSA/CBP , determine the reason , and see if there 's anything you can do to get around it . For example , the original " No Fly List " <URL> , especially if you say , had the same name as a suspicious person . If you were erroneously put on the list , you can appeal it , but <URL> .
Millions of smartphones and 10 's ( if not 100 's ) of thousands of Kindles/E-book readers go through airport scanners every day . So far I believe the number that have apparently been damaged by airport scanner stands at about 2 for Kindle , and I 've never heard of a smartphone being damaged by any form of scanners . ( And in the case of the Kindles there 's serious doubt it was caused by the X-ray machine , and not simply broken in the customer bags ) In general the only items that should not be put through the standard X-ray machine are very high ISO film ( 800 or higher ) and some very specialized medical devices ( and if you had one of those , you 'd already know about it ) . You are far more likely to cause damage to your phone by dropping it when trying to put it in the tray than you are having it broken by the equipment itself . There is no need to remove your Kindle from your carry-on bag , so just make sure it 's packed well and you 'll be fine . If you 're carrying a laptop you WILL need to remove that from your bag ( unless you have a special TSA-approved laptop bag ) - again the only real risk is in dropping it or forgetting to collect it afterwards .
This is an excerpt from <URL> and <URL> See also <URL> even though it is about to be marked duplicate . <URL> has very powerful search options ( see the advanced options ) , including choice of return and departure day , length of stay , period within which the trip should happen and a range of departure and arrival airports . Exactly as you ask they look for connections on separate tickets <URL> , even on different ( low-cost ) airlines . <URL> <URL> does the same and let 's you circle departure/destination in on a map , has date range and also some kind of " promise " to help you if you miss a non-guaranteed connection . Finally be aware of <URL>
I ca n't find the reference now , but there was a great story that an organisation was testing security at airports around the world , by taking a suitcase to the airport and leaving it there , timing how long before it got stolen or identified . The exception was Johannesburg , where the car was hijacked enroute , and the suitcase never made it to the airport ;) Anyway ... Apparently in the last year , luggage theft has been reduced by 60 % : <URL> which bodes well . Baggage pilfering is down to 0.6 % of all bags that pass through the airport , which when you think about it is still bad , but if you lock your bags and use the bag wrapping machines available , it 'll deter the opportunistic thief .
There were a bunch of changes to US airport security screening after 9/11 . I 'm not sure if there 's a comprehensive list anywhere , but here are a few highlights : What Did n't Change You still walk through a metal detector Airlines generally do n't want their passengers starting gun , knife , or chain fights on the airplane . For one thing you might damage the aircraft , and for another it 's REALLY hard to get blood out of the seats and carpet . Also a survey of flight crews reveals that they overwhelmingly prefer not being shot or stabbed while working . Your carry-on still gets X-rayed The airlines want to know what 's in your bag - they 're not only concerned about weapons ( see above ) but also other dangerous or prohibited items . ( Sorry , but <URL> unless it 's already been made into a crocodile-skin bag . Your checked luggage is still subject to X-ray and/or hand inspection See above for carry-ons . A survey of baggage handlers reveals that they prefer not to be bitten by crocodiles that escaped into the cargo hold . The Sensible Changes <URL> are more stringent It 's been a LONG while since you could run up to the counter 10 minutes before departure and say " I need to be on that plane , print me a boarding pass ! I 'll pay in cash ! " ( that era predates me ) , but now the ID you present needs to match the name your ticket is under . Only ticketed passengers are allowed into the secure area As <URL> this is standard practice in some other countries . The " Explosive Trace Detection " machine gets used more There are several models of this device , the most common use a swab or a " puff chamber " and a spectrometer to look for chemicals normally associated with explosives . These devices are pretty accurate and good at what they do , and because effectively cleaning explosives residue from clothing and equipment is non-trivial they 're a nice tool in the screening arsenal . There are " whole body " trace detectors that blow a column of air around a passenger to check for explosive traces , but I 've not encountered one myself . I have however had a lot of technical equipment swabbed . The baggage X-Rays are WAY better now Many airports had older-generation X-Ray systems for examining carry-ons and checked baggage . These were single-density X-Ray systems with low-resolution sensors that produce a pretty poor image . I have n't seen one of those at an airport in years - the new systems are variable-density ( they can deal with a mix of things inside your bag ) and much higher resolution . I 'm sure the old machines would eventually have all been retired and replaced , but the pace of adoption was probably accelerated . " Random " enhanced screenings ( ) Whether or not it 's truly random , some portion of passengers receive <URL> - an extra-thorough ( and somewhat more time-consuming ) screening process . Diverting some percentage of passengers through this process is theoretically an effective deterrent ( though in practice if you 're planning something nefarious and discover you 've been selected for secondary screening there are several opportunities for you to abort your nefarious plan and avoid capture ) . The less-sensible changes Your laptop probably ca n't stay in its bag Unless you have a TSA-approved laptop bag you must remove your laptop from its carry-on bag and place it in an X-Ray Transparent bin for screening . This is " less sensible " as it 's time-consuming , but there is logic behind it ( radiopaque items in some laptop bags make it difficult to discern " normal laptop-looking bits " from " bomb-cleverly-disguised-as-a-laptop bits " . Backscatter X-Ray or Pat-Down of passengers Perhaps the TSA 's most controversial policy , frequently derided as " the nudie-scanner " and " freedom gropes " , and plagued by stories of misses ( where prohibited items made it through the checkpoint despite the supposedly-thorough screening elements ) . <URL> the backscatter x-ray devices have been largely ( if not entirely ) replaced with millimeter wave scanners - same concept , but theoretically lower risk ( less ionizing radiation exposure ) and possibly slightly better resolution . While I consider them to be largely security theater in the sense that they 're not as good ( cost , time , or detection rate ) as the TSA would have us believe there is some merit to employing the techniques . Our indiscriminate and universal use of them is what lands them in my " less sensible " bin . The " Are you serious ? This is pointless ! " changes Please remove your shoes Yes , there was once a time when you did n't have to smell the feet of your fellow passengers . But then <URL> and that ruined it for everyone . This lands in the " Are you serious ? " bin because not only is it protecting us from yesterday 's threat , it is also full of loopholes : Children under 12 do n't have to take their shoes off , nor do passengers who go through the " TSA Pre-Check " screening path ( which is sometimes opened up to non Pre-Check passengers if the main screening path is backed up ) . Sorry , no water bottles More specifical
In the UK , if domestic and international travellers are mixed , you will have to have a photo taken whilst passing through security if you are connecting to a domestic flight . At the gate , they match this photo up with the one taken at security . Details can be found <URL> . To strengthen the security of the United Kingdom border , airports that operate common departure lounges must comply with UK Border Force conditions that are necessary to prevent any circumvention of UK immigration controls . This includes a requirement to capture a facial biometric for each domestic passenger on entry and exit of a departure lounge in order to verify their identity . Update : I think there 's some confusion in the other answers about what the question is exactly . Let 's say you fly Boston - Heathrow - Paris . In this case you do not pass through immigration , but just a security and boarding pass check . You then board your flight to Paris where you would go through immigration . The OP is asking what if you went through security and then attempted to board a domestic flight to , say , MAN , perhaps by swapping a boarding pass with someone else , or just using a second BP you 'd already printed under a different ticket ( though that will also result in failure due to Ready To Fly in LHR ) . What will happen is that you will arrive at the gate with the intention of boarding your domestic flight . You will face the biometric camera and it will not recognise you and you will be denied boarding . The only way of exiting the airport will be through immigration .
The airport has a very good homepage where you can get a list of restaurants , filtered by areas : <URL> The same applies for shops : <URL> It depends whether you fly to Canada/USA/any other country , but there are sit down restaurants available , but no pharmacy , even pre security . It could be that other shops sell the most important pharmacy products though .
A good starting point is maybe EPIC ( Electronic Privacy Information Center ) . <URL> against the usage of body scanners . And they have a ton of other <URL> . In <URL> it is also mentioned that EPIC is very active in this field . Another interesting group is maybe Electronic Frontier Foundation ( EFF ) . <URL> , they list some information how you can complain about the use of body scanners .
Having done this , I can confirm I needed no more than about an hour to get through security and exit immigration - although I was travelling through the " business " lane for both ( not in Business , but I have OneWorld Sapphire ) . Mumbai seemed very efficient . If I were doing the journey again , I would arrive 2 hours before , just in case .
It 's simply a " sniffing " device . You could say it " smells " for molecules of things such as explosives . <URL> <URL> There are a number of different varieties . Some have a throw away " swab " or thing that looks like a " piece of tape " on the end . In that case the swab is used once and thrown away . And the plastic stick is nothing more than a $ 2 plastic stick . Other devices are fixed and can be used more than once . The whole thing is usually just called a " swab " " chemical swab " " explosive swab " or the like . So you might say " they ran the explosive swabber over me at security , " or " they swabbed me with the explosive thingy at security , " or whatever . They might run it over you or maybe both you and your hand bags . It 's completely commonplace . These things are everywhere . I 've had it done say 25 % of the time I 've walked through a security ( whether at airports or elsewhere ) . I 've never had a ( false ! ) positive hit . ( I 'm surprised the OP mentions that it has not happened often to the OP - probably just a coincidence . ) Here 's the TSA explaining it in the USA case ... <URL> Notice it 's generally referred to as " swabbing , " " swabbed " . It looks like ( in the US ) this practice started heavily at airports in about twenty years ago ( 2010ish ) , here 's a video of it being done in a CNN article when the thing was news ... <URL> Note that the " insider " term for the technology seems to be " ETD " . Here 's one of the main manufacturers . You can buy some swabs from them if you want . <URL> Notice that all these systems are just profit centers set up by companies with government lobbying power , to make sales . ( I 'm not saying there is n't coincidentally societal advantage , but that 's the reason the system exists . ) The " ETD " thing works well for them because they get to sell BOTH the expensive device , AND the disposable swabs on an ongoing manner ( it 's like having a government contract for both razors and the blades ! ) A company will budget a certain amount of money , $ 20m , whatever , to use a lobbying company in the US Congress to push through regulations , on some level , so that devices like this have to be bought ; then in practice only a tiny number of companies can jump through the hoops to be suppliers . So as long as they can get return on the lobbying consultancy spend , it 's a winner . Job creation ! Here 's a large French company which is a competitor , Safran <URL> ( Those guys make everything for slaughtering/protecting people from rockets down to the swabs we are discussing . ) PS in answer to one of your literal questions , these things search for molecules , and have absolutely no connection in any way to radiation as such . If you think about it " detecting molecules in the air " is , in a sense , the same as " smelling " ... for that reason these things are indeed called " sniffers " or " explosive sniffers " or similar words in other languages . ( Note that radiation detectors for security points is an entirely and totally different technology . Indeed , it is the current thing that the lobbying consultancies are pushing through , these will soon be everywhere as well . )
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
The <URL> mentions two interesting bits of information . First thing is , of course , that you should inform your airline of all particular needs you might have , for them to make the necessary arrangements . Secondly , according to the afore-mentioned website , airline staff is approachable in both Domestic and International terminals : Wheelchairs Travelers requiring wheelchair assistance are encouraged to advise their airline of their needs when making flight arrangements . Upon arriving at the airport , travelers with wheelchair or other special requests should approach an airline representative for assistance . At Domestic Terminals 1 , 2 , and 3 , airline staff can be approached at curbside and check-in areas . At the International Terminal , please proceed to your airline 's assigned counter or dial 1-6210 from specially marked phones at all terminal entry doors . Arrangements for assistance to and from other locations at SFO can be made with your airline . Moreover , <URL> also mentions security checks with dedicated lanes for disabled passengers , and their family/helper : Getting Through Security As part of the Transportation Security Administration 's ( TSA ) Diamond Self-Select program , dedicated lanes that allow families , individuals unfamiliar with air travel and travelers with special needs to go through security at their own pace are available at all SFO security checkpoints . Please visit the <URL> website to learn more about screening for travelers with disabilities and medical conditions .
From the <URL> , the key bit of information there is OS 135 SH 663002 That tells you that you 'll want to get hold of the <URL> to cover you for the walk you 'll be doing . The numbers are the <URL> , which tell you exactly where on the map you 'll find the stone circle Looking at the map , the stone circle is a few hundred meters over ( but some distance higher ! ) than a very minor road . The road in question has National Cycle Route 82 going down it , so it should be pretty quiet . Officially , it looks like you should be making us of the car park that is about 2.5 km west along the road , at 642986 . Looks like you can probably find some nice circle routes around there , maybe going a tiny bit further west along the valley , then up and finally east to the stone circle . Alternately , there are a couple of farms just east of the stone circle on the road . You might get lucky and find that one of the farmers is happy for you to park there , but I would n't count on it . There 's no way you 'll be able to park on the road , it 'll be much too small ! Update If you do n't have the map to hand , <URL> , and <URL>
Many US airports do in fact have a " mail back " kiosk near security , where you can drop off your pocket knife , attach a form with your address and some money ( postage plus a hefty markup ) , and have it mailed back to you . <URL> is one of the companies that operates these kiosks ; they claim to have kiosks in <URL> ( elsewhere on their site they say 28 ) .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
end question
start question
Minimum amount of days travel insurance policy should cover for Schengen visa ?
This is taken up in Article 15 of <URL> ( otherwise known as the ' Schengen Visa Code ' ) , which says ... The insurance shall be valid throughout the territory of the Member States and cover the entire period of the person 's intended stay or transit . The minimum coverage shall be EUR 30 000 . and for the case of multiple entry Schengen visas ... Applicants for a uniform visa for more than two entries ( multiple entries ) shall prove that they are in possession of adequate and valid travel medical insurance covering the period of their first intended visit . So any day ( or partial day ) that the applicant is in the zone , these paragraphs would apply . To calculate the minimum coverage , add up the days between arrival and departure inclusive and you will meet the requirements of Article 15 .
In principle , you are indeed allowed to spend another 90 days in the Schengen area , because the time spent under a long-stay visa or residence permit does not count towards the maximum duration of a visa-free short-stay , see <URL> One issue will however be how those 90 days are counted . When crossing the border , the guards might ask about missing stamps ( also on the way out ! ) . You can then show your expired residence permit to prove that you were legally present in Finland even though your last entry stamp is older than 90 days . But if you do n't have any document to account for the time between the expiration of the permit and the moment you cross the border , then that time will probably count towards the 90 days . And if the permit 's expiration date lies more than 90 days in the past and you spent the whole time in the Schengen area , then you have a problem . If at all possible , it could be easier to leave and enter the Schengen area through Finland , as the Finnish border guards might be more familiar with your situation or perhaps even be able to verify that you have an application pending . Traveling to France or Germany from there should n't be a problem after that .
You have a Schengen visa with start/end dates of 6/19 and 7/19 . Between these two dates you have been given a total of 20 days to spend in the zone . The issuer expects you to spend your 20 days between 6/19 and 7/19 . You are asking if it 's OK to enter the zone on 7/10 and leave on 7/30 because your visa will be valid on your entry date and will have 20 days of unspent leave on it . No . When a Schengen expires , all unspent leave is lost . In your case it means you will have 10 unspent days on 7/19 which are forfeit . Those days can not be used beyond the expiry date . Presumably the start/end dates and the 20 days sync up to the itinerary you provided when you obtained your visa . If there has been a material change in your itinerary , you can ask for your visa to be revoked and reissued to accommodate your new plans . They like it when people do this because it demonstrates a proactive attitude towards observing the rules . See also : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL> Also : <URL>
A multiple-entry tourist visa allows you to enter and stay for 90 days multiple times , until the visa expires . There is usually a minimum waiting time between exit and re-entry , and that is different from country to country . For example , <URL> ; see also <URL> . I have found <URL> , but to be safe , your friend should call the <URL> to confirm .
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
If your mother does not have something to show for socio-professional , she can still submit documents on the strength of her social standing ( i.e. , the ' socio ' part of socio-professional ) . Examples would include , her marriage certificate , church/religious memberships , other memberships and affiliations that demonstrate an engagement with society . A reference from the family doctor might be helpful , but should n't be seen as required . Since she is applying as part of a family group , it is unlikely to make a big difference either way . They are aware that not every applicant has formal credentials and as long as the primary is acceptable they will normally grant the dependant relatives a visa also .
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
Yes , it is . The relevant law/regulation is cited in my answer to <URL> ( that question was about someone who does not need a short-stay visa but the answer also applies to your situation ) . Unfortunately , it 's easier to benefit from that if you do n't need a short-stay visa because you might need to go back to China or some other place where you have the right to reside and wait for the visa there . Worse , not having a stable job or life in China ( if that 's your case ) would work against your application . I do n't think you can generally apply for a short-stay Spanish visa in Spain ( or , actually , from any Schengen country as you typically need to prove you are a resident in the district covered by the consulate to which you apply and if you are already a resident in the Schengen area , you do n't need a short-stay visa ) . So the 90-day limit is not a problem but getting a visa might be , for unrelated reasons .
Since the UK is not part of the Schengen Area , I do n't see how this would be necessary ( and why you would want to do that anyway ) . If the country where you are applying for a Schengen visa thinks that they are interested in whether you have applied for other visa before , then they have internal ways to do that . They do n't need to ask you . There is the Schengen Information System ( SIS ) which in part handles such queries automatically . The UK as an EU member state participates in the SIS and exchanges information with other EU states , even though it is not part of Schengen ( and therefore can not grant Schengen visa ) .
It is indeed true that you can buy insurance at the border when entering Kosovo . The reason being that Kosovo is not a member of the <URL> . The Kosovo Insurance Bureau has <URL> : There are a total of 13 points of sale for border insurance policies , namely : Point of sale in Prishtina -- KIB headquarters Point of sale in Podujeva - Merdare Point of Sales Mitrovica Point of sale in Glloboçica Point of sale in Elez Han Point of sale in Prizren - Vërmica Point of sale in Peja -- Kulla Point of sale in Gjakovë -- Qafe Morin and Qafe Prush Point of sale in Kamenica -- Dheu i Bardhe Point of sale in Gjilani - Muqibabe Point of sale in Mutivode Point of sale in Leposavic - Jarinje * Point of sale in Zubin Potok - Bernjaka * * These two points of sale are currently out of order ( at the time of writing - Aug. 2015 ) . The insurance is valid for the entire length of your trip and its cost is vehicle dependent . In terms of coverage , quoting from the linked KIB website : 2 . What does the Border Insurance cover ? Border insurance covers all damages to third parties that are caused by owners of motor vehicles with foreign registration plates who hold a valid Border Insurance certificate . This insurance does not cover damages incurred to the vehicle that caused the damage , damages caused by unknown persons ( N / N or hit and run ) , damages caused by natural disasters , as well as damages caused by the holder of such insurance to themselves by rollover , animals on the road , etc. .
There is nothing in the regulations that prevents an applicant from using a hospitality exchange or social networking for accommodation . They would treat these arrangements in the same way as if friends were offering you a place , but since they are not real friends , you will need to be a bit careful with how you present your evidence . It means you ca n't just say ' couchsurfing ' on your application ; instead you 'll need to demonstrate that firm arrangements are in place with each provider and that these arrangements are an acceptable substitute for a personal invitation . It would be wise to include a ' backup provider ' for each place you plan to stay to show that you have a contingency if the planned accommodation is not available or turns out to be unsafe or unlawful or otherwise unacceptable .
<URL> provides an excellent overview of radiation types and what you are most liable to encounter . For airline flights gamma-radiation is the most probable type . ( Alpha particles are stopped by paper , Beta by thin foil or similar . You can buy commercial instruments that will detect radiation for from about $ 200 on up . An off the shelf " PIN diode " acts as an adequate gamma radiation detector in many cases . <URL> from Maxim . Their notes are worth reading in this context . <URL> They say : Abstract : A PIN photodiode , four low-noise op amps and a comparator are used to detect individual photons of gamma radiation . The schematic , design considerations and component selection are discussed . The circuit of Figure 1 includes a PIN photodiode that detects individual photons of gamma radiation . When a photon strikes a depletion region created by reverse bias on the photodiode , it produces a small amount of charge in proportion to the photon 's energy . The resulting signal is then amplified and filtered by four amplifiers and a final comparator distinguishes between the signal and noise . The comparator output pulses high each time a gamma photon with sufficient energy strikes the photodiode . <URL> <URL> <URL> ADDED Here is a description of a DIY real world Gamma Ray detector based on a PIN diode . Made by VK2ZAY - Australian radio-amateur . A number of other on-web designs are based on his work . <URL> <URL> good . Here is a <URL> Related videos - same device <URL> and <URL> and <URL>
According to <URL> you do n't need a visa to transit through ( picked Austria as a transit point ) . TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of onward tickets in transit . * Note : TWOV is not possible when arriving from a non-Schengen Member State AND departing to a Schengen Member
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
Primary travel insurance pays for any claims you make straightaway up to the coverage amount you have while secondary travel insurance requires you file your claims with any existing insurance provider you have ( medical insurance , for instance ) and once that coverage is exhausted your secondary travel insurance kicks in . What 's better depends on which specific plans you are comparing and how much savings it brings you . Some medical insurance plans ( non-travel ) may not cover you for costs incurred abroad . Additionally , if you buy secondary insurance and have to get in touch with another insurance provider , you need to consider the hassle of having to file claims with an insurance company that may not have a dedicated support team to handle claims coming in from travellers and process them quickly enough . If you 're going for short-term trips , at least in Europe/Asia you will find it less hassle to buy a per-trip travel insurance policies which are often quite cheap .
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
Croatia is still not part of the Schengen area . The border between Croatia and , say , Slovenia or Hungary is treated as an external border and you should get an exit stamp , which also means the time spent in Croatia will not count towards the 90-day maximum stay in the Schengen area . Same thing if you take a flight out of a Schengen country to Croatia . Just like flights to the UK , they leave from the non-Schengen part of the airport . In practice , the fact that Croatia is bound to join the Schengen area means it has to implement similar rules and show it can perform border controls up to a certain standard . But even if it is ready next year , there will be some time before it actually becomes part of the Schengen area ( " fully implements the Schengen acquis " in the lingo ) . Note that Romania and Bulgaria were supposed to join at the beginning of 2014 and were deemed ready by the European Commission but their entry was still blocked by other member states so it 's not clear what will happen after Croatia officially applies .
Ulcinj county has the best beaches in Montenegro . The good beaches are several km outside the city towards the Albanian border . Local transport should be frequent during the day , and you can stay either at the beach or in the Ulcinj city . Velika Plaza ( Large Beach ) is 10km long , uncrowded with nice sand and a long shallow part . Ada Bojana is an island at a river estuary , the beach is clothing-optional , has some nice waves . Ulcinj also has an old town on a steep hill ( an Ottoman fortress , different than Venetian ones elsewhere ) . Accommodation prices are slightly better than elsewhere . Budva and Bay of Kotor have great scenery , old towns and some nightlife . Unfortunately , the beaches are crowded and rather unimpressive ( relatively small , not much sand , mostly uncomfortable pebbles , sharp and deep drop-off ) . If you 're traveling by bus , you can go to Kotor first , spend a few hours there ( perhaps take a tour of the bay and the fortress ) , and then take a local bus down to Ulcinj ( ~ 2-3h bus ride ) .
end question
start question
Booking air tickets with last-minute risks : to cancel or to book last-minute ?
Cheap international air tickets are generally not refundable . You will get some airport taxes back ( probably less than 100 USD ) minus an administration fee . Alternatively you might get a voucher that you can use towards a future flight on the same airline . It depends on how you buy the ticket . As a rule of thumb a fully refundable ticket will be about three times the price of the cheapest ticket you can find . Some airlines will let you change your ticket to a future date , but only if you tell them before the flight . Ten days is not last minute . Last minute is when you arrange your flight in the taxi to the airport . Anyway , ten days before I would expect the price of MCI-RIX-MCI to be about 1000 USD ( in economy class ) , providing your stay includes a Saturday night . Such a ticket is considered a deep discount advance purchase fare and remains unrefundable . In your shoes I would definitely purchase the ticket after I received the visa .
Obviously , the best book for you depends a lot on what you are looking for . Many criteria are to be taken into account : the place ( s ) you 'll go to : some books will cover only the capital , other will cover the main cities and other will cover the countryside as well . the duration of your trip ( many books are explicitely for trips of a couple of days ) the kind of tourist you are : what are you really looking for ( cultural visits , natural landscapes , relaxation ) how much are you willing to spend on your trip ( many books are for backbackers and might be irrelevant for a family trip ) : the transportation , the places to sleep/drink/eat / visit and the can be really different how much cultural background you want to know : a few small sentences in the foreign language ; the whole history of the country ; a description of the culture you 'll be living in . All those things can make a difference and might or might not be relevant to you how you want to use your guide : read the whole thing before the trip , open it at random once you are there , etc how you want to find the information in your guide : sorted by city/price/type of activity many other things In any case , if you are in the shop , it 's worth opening the different books to see if they really talk about what you are looking for and if it seems good to you ( which is mostly of matter of personal preferences ) . If you are front of your computer , you can still have a look at the readers reviews ( on Amazon for instance ) even if it might not be really accurate as one usually tries only one guide per trip/destination . Finally , after a while , you might get used to a specific type of guide and feel more comfortable with it . As for me , I 'm really used to the " Guides du Routard " ( French collection ) and I 'm not really fond of the " Lonely Planet " .
You can get 1 - or 3 day ( tourist ) passes . More at <URL> . We used them a couple of years ago - they worked just as advertised .
Use <URL> to buy tickets online . This service supports payment by Visa and MasterCard . Also you may use Maestro card . As alternative , you always may buy tickets directly in airport . There are <URL> inside International Airport of Cancun . But remember to buy ticket at least 4-5 days before the flight . When you buy ticket on the same date - it costs much more .
Obviously it 'll depend on the time of year , but my feeling in Marrakech was that something would ' appear ' if you needed it , they were always keen to make some cash . We did n't have time for the desert tours , but hoped to do a day tour to a nearby river valley . Lo and behold our Riad owner suddenly had a friend running a tour , and indeed came along himself . This was in November , however , and seasonal variations will occur in demand . We ca n't possibly be certain , but you could consider hopping on forums like the Lonely Planet and seeing if anyone else is looking for a tour too . Or ask your Riad to ask other guests in advance . Otherwise , there 's still PLENTY to do in and around Marrakech .
Hotels usually have a full legally regulated rate ( the one posted on the inside of the door inside the room ) , a walk in rate ( what they charge if you just show up ) and an advance booking rate . The full rate that is posted is usually equal to the walk in rate during peak season and , with the exception of a holiday surcharge ( NYE , Xmas , etc ) , is the highest amount they can legally charge for that room . The walk in rate varies depending on the season , during shoulder season in Hawai'i it could be quite a bit lower than during peak summer season . While this rate is usually a set amount , most front desks have some leeway to discount that rate if the hotel has low occupancy . The discounted rates offered by the hotel for advance bookings through its own website vs the rates offered through OTAs , like Agoda or Expedia , etc are becoming more equal as time goes by . The primary advantage of OTAs is being able to look at multiple options on one page AND since OTAs have blocks of rooms they committed to , they will offer the same discounted rate right up to check in day . Hawai'i is busy but not totally sold out , with the exception of the peak seasons , you can find rooms available in most areas upon arrival . And even during peak summer and the new year period , there will be some room to be had somewhere . Personally I would book my first stay before leaving for the islands , just for the ease of arriving and relaxing instead of hunting down rooms . Then as you piece together your next location , get online with the OTAs booking.com , hotels.com , agoda.com etc and see what they have available . If rooms are available you can book them right up until you arrive at the hotel . You can also use the price the OTAs quote as bargaining material if you want to walk in and book direct with the hotel . And if you spot a really cool hotel while wandering around but the front desk tells you they have no rooms , check with the OTAs as they may have space in their blocks still , which the front desk ca n't access to sell direct .
Travelling by cargo ship ( mostly container but also bulk or ro-ro , never heard anything about travelling on a tanker , presumably for safety reasons ) is totally a thing . More info and links to specific agents can be found in <URL> . Many websites advertise specific journeys but you can always contact an agent and see what they can find for you . The only US-based freighter travel agent I know is <URL> . It 's not particularly complicated but relatively slow and expensive and needs to be arranged well in advance ( you will also need a certificate from your GP and special " deviation " insurance -- to protect the ship 's operator against losses if they need to change the ship 's route because of you , e.g. in case of medical emergency ) . The price is not fixed nor based on distance per se but simply USD 90-110 per day ( + insurance , agent fees and embarkation/disembarkation fees ) , and crossing the Pacific takes at least 20 days , so around $ 2000 ( this also covers food on board , you get meals at fixed times with the ship 's officers , alcohol at the discretion of the captain , sometimes not at all -- it 's not a cruise , freight goes first and your entertainment a distant second ! ) . You could also go the other way around and cross the Atlantic ( on a cargo ship , a <URL> or a seasonal " repositioning " cruise ) and then go on to Asia by train or cargo ship . Not quick or cheap by any means but certainly a journey to remember . If you are prepared to go for less luxurious options ( <URL> or cheapest offer from Cunard , kupe on the trans-Siberian ) , you could probably manage it for $ 5000 - $ 7000 I think . A friend of mine went to Japan from Europe taking busses to avoid expensive Western European trains and buying a platskartny ticket directly in Moscow ( so one class below kupe , you get a bunk in a carriage with 50 other passengers ) ; it was much cheaper than a pre-arranged tour , possibly even competitive with the plane , but you have to love adventure ! Exactly where you end up on the west coast of the Pacfic Ocean is not very important . Once you have reached East Asia or the Russian far east , the last hop to Japan is not a problem , there are many ferries .
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
Are your segments on the same ticket , or separate ? If the latter , I would not risk it . You would have no protections if you miss the connection ; all other flights may be sold out or you might need to purchase a new ticket at full price . I do not know how Delta is about LGA these days since the slot swap with US Airways , but in the past they rather discouraged connecting there . The biggest concern I would have is that Delta uses three different terminals at LGA . Delta Shuttle flies out of the Marine Air Terminal ( terminal A ) , Delta Connection/Comair flies out of terminal D , and Delta mainline uses both terminals C and D . There are airside buses ( exiting security , walking/airport shuttle , and re-clearing is not practical here ) , but these run only every 10-15 minutes at peak times , and the ride from A to D is a good 15 minutes itself . That makes a 35-minute connection stressful to say the least . I would look over several days ' worth of flights to see where your typical arriving and departing gates would be . The concourses in terminals A , C , and D are relatively short , so if both of your segments are in the same terminal , 35 minutes at 8am on a Thursday is not unreasonable -- though I would have a plan if things do n't work out . On the bright side , airlines do build in standard minimum connection times into their booking engines ; they have no incentive to strand passengers at hubs . You have a better chance of good weather in October than in January or July . Also , congestion-related delays ( most delays at LGA are related to congestion ) tend to stack up over the course of the day . An 8am flight is relatively early , so not much congestion should have built up . On the other hand , as the saying goes , your mileage may vary . Gate changes happen all the time . The connection timetables are ambitious for people with lots of luggage or who walk very slowly . And LGA is a highly congested airport ; even after landing , it often takes a few minutes for a gate to open up . So research when the next connection to your destination would be , keep your cell phone charged , and if there are any problems with your flight to LGA , be proactive in talking to an agent ( phone , gate , club ) about the potential misconnect .
No , there are multiple zones , mostly you have to cross from one zone to another , hence pay more . Here 's the metro zone map : They sell <URL> , you need two units ( tickets ) if you 're traveling within a single zone , three units when in two zones ( e.g. from A to B ) and four if you 're traveling between three zones . The easiest way would be getting the tickets at stations , there are vending machines and also sometimes cashiers selling those tickets .
The only major advantage is price : it 's not uncommon for a third-party site to have better prices than those offered directly by the hotel . That said , major chains are increasingly offering best-price guarantees , although these usually only mean that you can claim the difference if you spot it , not that they 're actually always the cheapest option . Minor advantages include : A faster booking process if you 're a repeat customer and they already have your details on file . The infrastructure behind a site like booking.com is rock solid , meaning very reliable booking and payment processes . Little independent hotels have to cobble together their own , so things can and do go wrong , eg . filling out their 16-page booking form and then getting an error on the last page because it does n't like your credit card or something . Some chance of getting your money back if the hotel goes bankrupt or something before your stay . ( That said , any halfway decent credit card will let you dispute the charge in this case even if you book directly . ) But all that said , I still book directly through the hotel if I can . Your reservation is less likely to get lost , you may get better rooms and more perks , making changes to your booking is easier , and you 'll get points if you belong to the hotel chain 's frequent traveller program . Also , Airbnb is ( supposed to be ) for person-to-person short stay rentals , not regular hotels . For most of the properties listed there , Airbnb is the only option for booking .
The best place for these calculations is the " Great Circle Mapper " website . <URL> To find the distance between two or more airports just enter them with dashes between them . eg , JFK-DFW or SFO-IAD-LHR You can do multiple trips at once by separating them with commas . JKF-DFW , SFO-IAD-LHR
Taipei to Keelung is effectively a suburban service , there are trains every 15-20 minutes and reservations are not required ( or even possible for most trains ? ) . And even for long-distance trains , advance reservations are generally not necessary , unless you 're traveling at peak season ( eg . Chinese New Year ) or on some special train ( eg . the Alishan Mountain Railway ) .
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
Update : Good news , when you load the official page , you 'll now see that they accept VISA payments . As a result , you can now buy advance tickets from outside of Peru directly with the website . However , there are still many other ways to do this . I 'd recommend <URL> for sources on how to do it . There are numerous online tour agencies that you can pay to get you tickets . Once you 're in Cusco , you can buy a tour then if you 're doing one of the trails . Once you 're in Aguas Calientes ( final stop on the train route ) , you can buy tickets there . You can even buy tickets at the last second at the gate when you arrive at Machu Picchu . So do n't despair , there are plenty of other ways to achive your dream of going :)
The catch is that if you book the tickets separately and then the flight from A to B is delayed , causing you to miss the flight from B to C , it becomes your problem to arrange for alternative transport from B to C . The airline has no obligations towards you , even if it was their own delayed flight that caused the issue . Worse still , if the B - > C ticket had a return C - > B that will likely be cancelled as well since you missed the first flight on the ticket . If you had booked the entire trip as a single ticket , the airline would however be responsible for getting you to C if the earlier flight was delayed . This may include putting you up ( for free ) in a hotel overnight if there are no more flights to C on that day . Of course , the airline may exceed their obligations and put you on a later flight at no or little cost to you . But the only way to be sure that failed connection will not result in significant additional cost is to book the trip as a single ticket . Budget airlines , in particular , are unlikely to show you any flexibility . Another consideration ( which may not be relevant in the question here as it is the same airline , but applies to connections between different airlines ) is that you may need to claim and recheck your luggage at B . If it is a single ticket you should always be able to check your luggage through to your destination ( assuming you do n't need to collect it to go through customs ) .
Presenting the card and running a transaction on the card are different things . I bought some show tickets a while back , changed the card , but kept the old card for ticket pickup . The company just wanted to match the numbers on the transaction to the numbers on the piece of plastic , the transaction was run at the time of purchase . People change / lose / expire cards every day , and no airline is going to wait until departure to take your money . Just keep the old card after you cancel it .
As discussed in a <URL> , there are now two companies dedicated to that exact need : <URL> <URL> According to a <URL> : I used both . Onwardflights.com photoshops tickets , Flyonward.com books real tickets . Onwardflights is cheaper for a reason .
end question
start question
How can I tour Serengeti National Park by starting off in Nairobi ?
As far as I know the only way is via Arusha or by private car . For the route via Arusha you can <URL> ( full disclosure : I work on this project ) . There you can catch a local bus onward , though these run infrequently , maybe not even daily . I 'm not sure what your intentions once reaching the park are , since there are n't likely to be facilities set-up for access without a car . You may be better off booking a safari directly from Arusha .
Short answer , you ca n't . However , you can at least make sure they have an official license , and any other accreditation which might lend some credence to their claims . Look for ones that are licensed by the <URL> , and consider <URL> , to see if anyone has mentioned them or complained about them . All you can do is research , and ask around when you get there as well . Or consider approaching the companies and ask them directly - I 'm sure you 'd not be the first , even if it is rather brazen ;)
There are really dozens of tour operators that offers tours to the Salt Mines . I would recommend to use collect some flyers and compare the conditions . I personally can recommend the tour that is provided by the <URL> . They have an agreement with a tour operator that picks you up directly in front of the hostel and then drives you there in a comfortable minibus . After the tour you 're picked up at the mines and you can again leave the minibus directly in front of the hostel or in the old town center . The price was 10 Euro per person including everything , which I personally think is very reasonable . But we got a student discount of 50 % , so the normal price is a little bit higher . I assume that other tour operators have more or less the same offers .
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
Yes , you can . And I did . I just tried it from my recent trip from Narita to Shanghai Pudong via Incheon transit . I first asked Asiana Airline via email if it is possible , and they answered I must call by phone to cancel the flight . Then I called , and the operator said I should cancel the flight at the check-in counter . They seemed to not cancel my flight at that time . Then at the time of check-in , I asked again and the staff there said I can , as long as I book another return ticket and show him the ticket . I did n't have another ticket , so I immediately tried to search for and booked my return ticket , which is from Incheon to Narita in 6 days after . He accepted it , but during him checking my ( original ) ticket , he said that I can change the date of the ticket ! . According to his explanation , I did n't have to book another return ticket ; I should just change the date of the ticket of the only Incheon to Narita part . Hmmm ... it 's too stressful . It meant that I replaced my Asiana ticket with the cheap LCC one and also lost my US$ 100 . Sigh ... My ignorance ... But if you want to ditch only the last part of your return flight , it is possible ! . NOTE : Because I just booked my flight shortly before the departure , and had n't booked my hotel , I got myself into the investigation room at immigration . You shall be better off expecting a slightly more demanding , scrutinizing inspection .
Officially or even semi officially no . The plant is still owned by TEPCO so arranging it with them would probably give you a better access and safer tour if they choose to allow it . However , there are other options if you choose to consider them . There is a <URL> or a <URL> virtual tour . Or finally you can try to get a <URL> of the area but there are no contacts given so you may want to consider the repercussions of doing so and what kind of access you will be able to get remains a mystery .
There are <URL> ( = Park and Ride ) around Luxembourg City . All but one are totally free . The one at Bouillon is only free for the 24 first hours . When you arrive from Germany , Kirchberg is conveniently located . Otherwise , go to Luxembourg-Sud . It is next to the junction of the highways from Germany , France and Belgium . Kockelscheuer is a bit more remote , but still okay . Beggen is not practical if you arrive from abroad . Each of these parkings has good and frequent bus connection to the center of Luxembourg City . You can reach the city center in less than 20 minutes from each of them . There is strictly no free parking space within 20 minutes walking distance from the city center . As a matter of principle , in Luxembourg City , all the parkings except the P+R have to be paid for . If you can read some French , have a look athe the following official links <URL> <URL>
Obviously it 'll depend on the time of year , but my feeling in Marrakech was that something would ' appear ' if you needed it , they were always keen to make some cash . We did n't have time for the desert tours , but hoped to do a day tour to a nearby river valley . Lo and behold our Riad owner suddenly had a friend running a tour , and indeed came along himself . This was in November , however , and seasonal variations will occur in demand . We ca n't possibly be certain , but you could consider hopping on forums like the Lonely Planet and seeing if anyone else is looking for a tour too . Or ask your Riad to ask other guests in advance . Otherwise , there 's still PLENTY to do in and around Marrakech .
The fastest way is to start at Taganga which is just North-East of Santa Marta and take a boat that drops you at the docks on Cabo beach . The trip takes just under one hour and officials are waiting there to collect the park fee and check your bags for forbidden items . Once past that , you are in and already on a beautiful beach . It takes 20-30 mins to walk to each beach further west .
Thanks to a tip from my hotel , I 've discovered there is somewhere open in the mean time - <URL> . The Msheireb Enrichment Centre is located on a medium sized barge moored off the Corniche , just west of the Sheraton Hotel ( the triangular pyramid shaped hotel near the north eastern edge of the Corniche ) The exhibition is sponsored by Msheireb Properties , who 've apparently done lots of building works around Doha . No-one seems to know if it 'll stay long term , or close when the National Museum re-opens , but for now it 's your best bet for a short visit to learn about Qatar 's history and culture ! ( It 's at the other end of the Corniche from the Museum of Islamic Art , but there are public buses running round the Corniche you can take mostly between the two , if you do n't fancy the 4.5 km seafront walk )
1 . From <URL> on the TfL website : If you are eligible to buy one of the following National Railcards : 16-25 Railcard [ ... ] You can get : Discounts on some off-peak travel on Tube , DLR , London Overground and National Rail services in London Not buses . 2 . From <URL> on the TfL website : [ no mention of railcards ] So , no . 2 second part . No . The price level of the daily cap is reduced because of your discount , but what the cap covers is the same .
Your options are by air or by bus . A taxi from Nairobi to the border , and a new taxi from the border to Arusha is of course also an option , but it will not come cheap . As mentioned in the answer from @Carl you will have several options for bus companies at around $ 20 . The pick-up for some companies are at the different hotels . The bus will take you to the Arusha bus station . Safety on roads in any country is always a concern . The road between Nairobi and Arusha has been upgraded some years ago . This usually means the average speed goes up . Travelling along roads in African countries is more dangerous than in any European country . Safety in cars and buses are generally lower - lack of safety belts , driver ignorance or lack of skill , bad roads , bad technical standard on cars , high speed driving , securing of cargo , cattle/donkeys along the road etc. . A drive will , for better or worse , of course give you a different feel for the countries you travel in and Kenya/Tanzania are no exceptions . Your cheapest flight option would be with Precision Air . It currently costs around $ 150 . Since it is an international flight it will take you from Nairobi ( NBO ) to Kilimanjaro international Airport ( JRO ) . The Arusha airport is not an international one . You will have to add the bus ticket from JRO to Arusha . It will set you back from around $ 10 . A taxi will cost you around $ 50 . The distance from JRO to Arusha is around 50 kms , so you will still have to spend an hour or so on the road .
Protected Areas Internationally speaking , both natural parks and natural monuments are defined as protected areas , which , according to <URL> , means : A protected area is a clearly defined geographical space , recognised , dedicated and managed , through legal or other effective means , to achieve the long term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values . The ICUN states that this is the most widely used definition internationally . Indeed , any protected area listed on the <URL> must comply with it . Regulatory Categories Moreover , the <URL> , in which we can find natural parks and natural monuments : Category Ia -- Strict Nature Reserve Category Ib -- Wilderness Area Category II -- National Park Category III -- Natural Monument or Feature Category IV -- Habitat/Species Management Area Category V -- Protected Landscape/Seascape Category VI -- Protected Area with sustainable use of natural resources These categorical distinctions provide guidelines to the purpose and regulation to be applied to different areas . Quoting from the ICUN website : II : National Park Similar to the objectives of Wilderness Areas , National Parks provide protection for functioning ecosystems , but tend to be more lenient with human visitation and the supporting infrastructure . National Parks are managed in a way that may contribute to local economies through promoting educational and recreational tourism on a scale that will not reduce the effectiveness of conservation efforts . The surrounding areas of a National Park may be for consumptive or non-consumptive use , but should nevertheless act as a barrier for the defence of the protected area 's native species and communities to enable them to remain sustainable in the long term . III : Natural Monument or Feature These are comparatively smaller areas that are specifically allocated to protect a natural monument and its surrounding habitats . Natural Monuments or Features can be natural in the wholest sense , or include elements that have been influenced or introduced by humans . The latter should hold biodiversity associations or could otherwise be classified as a historical or spiritual site , though this distinction can be quite difficult to ascertain . As such , The classification then falls into two subcategories , those in which the biodiversity in uniquely related to the conditions of the natural feature , and those in which the current levels of biodiversity are dependent on the presence of the sacred sites that have created an essentially modified ecosystem . Natural Monuments or Features have a high cultural or spiritual value which can be utilised to gain support for conservation challenges . USA National Monuments and Parks <URL> , in the USA the difference between a national park and a national monument lie in the fact that the former can be declared by the President of the USA , without him having to seek the approval of Congress . In terms of the general general regulatory differences between monuments and parks in the USA , I think that a a single answer can not be formulated . This is partly due to the fact that protected areas in the USA are not managed by a single entity . Indeed some are county - , other are state-managed . Moreover , some protected areas are used for commercial exploitation . <URL> Bottom line is that different areas have different rules , so always check in advance . As a final thought I would say that the USA regulations tend to follow the guidelines set by the ICUN . For example , this is true for national parks , which are often not only open to tourists but also " exploitable " ( fishing , camping , etc. ) .
Yellowstone National Park wo n't be open on Easter , other than the road from Mammoth to the northeast entrance . Yellowstone 's winter season winds down in early March and the interior roads do n't open until mid to late April . So Easter is not really a good time to go . Hotels and campgrounds do n't start opening until the first of May .
There 's a Thermal Spa Centre ! The new thermal spa centre , on the opposite bank of the river Passirio , was opened during the 1970 's and is furnished with the most modern equipment for therapeutic treatment . It also houses an indoor swimming-pool filled with thermal water and the natural radio-activity in this water has a most beneficial pathological effect . The spa centre is open all year round and specialises in a vast selection of curative treatments . <URL> <URL> Prices range depending on whether you want a spa , a bath , and for how long . <URL> . There certainly does n't appear to be any indication of nudity .
You will be able to rent a bike from <URL> . The operating dates : May to mid-October ( 7 days a week ) , 7:00 am to 9:00 pm ◦ except August 25 , 2015 , open 7:00 am to 5:30 pm
It 's not that extreme . For mountains and forests : a ) Do n't block the road , not even partially . If that means you ca n't park , do n't . And do n't park in turns etc. where the car ca n't be seen by other drivers before reaching it . ( Remember buses , on roads where you would never expect them ) . b ) If it is eg . a road to a ski lift in winter , or touristy for some other reason , and you 're near a parking area , better use it . Otherwise , you should be fine . On most mountain roads etc. , outside of villages , you wo n't find marked parking space at all . However , I 'm not sure what you mean with " days " . If you plan to leave your car to sleep in the woods with a sleeping bag , someone could see your car on the roadside several times with some hours between = > worrying what happened to the owner = > car removed and police searching for you . In such situations , find a proper place to leave it . For small villages : If they 're small enough to not have marked parking space , you ca n't use it ...
It 's been several years since I 've been to Dorst Creek , but based on what I remember ... It really comes down to which campsite you have booked . Several of the camp sites in this ground are actually fairly small - much smaller than you 'd normally expect in a National Park campground . Other campsites are much larger , especially those on the outsides of the loops . Depending on the exact site you have booked , 3 tents may be , at best , a stretch - especially if the sites next to you have more than one tent on them . You can find a map of the campground <URL> which will give you some idea of how large your campsite might be . If you find that one of your tents does n't fit , then I would suggest asking nicely at a few nearby sites ( especially the larger ones ) to see if they would be willing to share . Officially this is not allowed , but given that you are already staying in the campground you likely wo n't have too much trouble finding another site that would be willing to let you put up one tent . Also , keep an eye out on recreation.gov for available sites - people do cancel , and it 's not uncommon to be able to snag something in the week or so beforehand . Enjoy Sequoia ( and if you get the chance , Kings Canyon ) - they are a great pair of parks . If they were n't so far away I 'd be there every few months :)
Usual regional ( not highspeed ) trains do n't require ( or offer ) reservations ; so yes , you can just go there , buy a ticket , and enter the train . However , the South Korean " standing seat " system ( if I understood it correctly ) is not known here . With reservation , you 'll have a guaranteed seat ; and without reservation , you may have to stand ( anywhere ) or you 're lucky and find an empty , unreserved seat . There are no lower prices for people refraining from using seats at all . For many high-speed trains ( ES Frecciarossa/Frecciargento/Frecciabianca , InterCity ) , seat reservations are mandatory . For Pisa-Firenze , this wo n't be a problem , there are many regional trains ( I 'm not even sure if there are non-regional trains at all ) . If you need/want to take a high-speed train somewhere , usually it 's still no problem to buy the ticket right before entering ; most trains are not sold out . However , buying in advance is probably cheaper .
With some detective work , it 's possible to work it out . Firstly , <URL> that there 's a visitor center at the Scorpion Ranch , so we can be pretty sure it exists . On Yelp - there 's <URL> . So now we know that exists , and what it looks like . <URL> Then - is there a ranger ... well ... it 's stated that <URL> , and that <URL> . The visitor center itself does n't look like it 's liveable - it 's more of an exhibition center for visitors to view . There 's <URL> . So presumably there 's an abode elsewhere for the ranger .
end question
start question
Does Cathay Pacific allow using of mobile and tablets for international flights ?
There is nothing strange about this . Depending on flight conditions or other restrictions , various services on flights have been disabled before . For example : Meal service is stopped if the flight is going through turbulent weather . People are restricted to move around the cabin during normal flight . Cabin lights may be turned on during night time flights . The ICE ( information , communication , entertainment ) systems may be switched off . It depends on what the crew feel is impacting the safety of the flight . Once a colleague of mine was asked to turn off his laptop while the plane was sitting at the gate , with the engines turned off by the crew . He was as baffled as I am because normally in this scenario you are allowed to use electronics and radios . However , he was asked to do so by the crew on the instructions of the captain . Specifically for the use of mobile phones and wifi , this depends on the aircraft being flown . On Emirates , for example , the system is available on all their A380 aircraft , but only some of the 777-300s because these are the older aircraft in their fleet . I am not aware of any restrictions specific to China regarding mobile use on commercial flights ; but as a general rule you are only allowed to use the mobile phone if the crew allows you to do so .
All Garmin devices I 've seen have the ability of constantly writing GPS track in background . I suppose , every touristic GPS has such functionality . Since GPS device is constantly tracking GPS signal , writing track is a low-cost operation . I 'm using my Garmin to navigate to the geocaches , and I 'm always registering GPS track in the same time . It 's a standard function nowadays . From what I know , there are clocks with GPS that can be used only for GPS tracking because they do n't display maps , but such devices are quite a niche , practical only for speed runners who want to save a bit on weight . Smartphones , on the other side , are relatively good for GPS navigation , but not for tracking , because GPS drains power from them very quickly . It 's practicable to activate GPS only to see how to go further and then shut up the maps app . But with tourist GPS , it 's not the case . They are designed to be turned on constantly , and they can work on one battery set quite a long ( my Etrex - over 24 hours ) . Consider buying the device that can work with rechargeable batteries like AA , you can take extra supplies , and in " emergency " case , buy some unrechargeable AAs in any newspaper shop .
In theory , the International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis ( ICVP ) card serves as a record of all major vaccinations you 've had , including things like Tetanus , Hepatitis , Rabies , Typhoid , TB , etc. . Carrying one with you when you travel is a little like carrying a very abridged version of your medical records - specifically for vaccinations . The obvious thing this could save you is something like an extra tetanus shot given that you can show you only had one X years ago . In practice , the ICVP really only serves a single purpose - to show that you have received a Yellow Fever vaccination within the past 10 years . The <URL> from the World Health Organization ( WHO ) allows/recommends for countries to require proof of vaccination against Yellow Fever for all incoming passengers who have recently visited a <URL> - even if only for transit . There are also a number of countries that will <URL> . If you have an ICVP there 's no real need to travel with it at all times , but if there 's any chance you will visit one of these countries on your travels then you should definitely make sure you have one , and have it with you when you travel ! If you do n't have a ICVP , obtaining one is as easy as asking for it when getting a relevant vaccination . For Yellow Fever vaccinations , you will be given one without asking and the relevant area on the card should be stamped AND signed by the person certifying that you 've been vaccinated . For most other vaccinations you will normally not be given one unless you ask for it , and they will normally not be stamped or even signed .
None , if you 're looking only at major airlines . <URL> is a map showing non-stop Russian destinations reachable from Fairbanks , Alaska . Here 's <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . However <URL> operates for 8 weeks in the summer and for the fifth season this year , you can go from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk . You can also <URL> a flight with Bering Air , though it requires a 3 week <URL> and 2 weeks to process the request . There 's also <URL> which has flights from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk in the summer .
Do n't take it personally , that happens in other countries as well . It 's not common , but there are hostels in the US , Canada , and Europe that do n't allow people from their own country to stay there . So if it makes you feel any better , there are U.S. hostels that will happily accept you , but not a U.S. citizen . I ran into that once myself when I wanted to stay at a hostel here , so I know it is frustrating . The reasoning is some hostels are trying to create a particular social environment where you can interact with travelers from all different countries . It 's also a way to make sure guests really are people who are traveling , not just locals who need a place to crash , or someone who just arrived in town and is looking for temporary housing . At worse , some hostels that let anyone stay can end up looking more like a housing project or homeless shelter . It does solve that problem , but it is unfortunate that they also end up excluding people who really are visiting town from other parts of the country . I do n't think it 's a great policy , but that 's the reasoning behind it anyway .
As Murphy 's Law dictates , the very next Google search I did for this info after giving up and submitting it as a question here , was successful ! <URL> : Sydney Airport opening times are : T1 International terminal is opened everyday from 3AM to 11:00 PM ( 0300 to 2300 ) • Customs are opened for departures passenger processing at 4AM daily ( 0400 ) T2 Domestic terminal is opened everyday from 4AM to 11:00 PM ( 0400 to 2300 )
Updated As of May 2014 , it works in both directions now ! As this edit demonstrates , from somewhere under the channel :) Yes , you can ! But currently until very recently , it was only in one direction ... As detailed in <URL> , Eurotunnel ( who own the tunnel ) have fitted leaky feeder aerials , base stations and repeaters to both tunnels , and it only took 10 months to kit out . Eurotunnel are then leasing them out to mobile operators . The North Tunnel , which is normally used for trains travelling from France to England , has been assigned as " France " and leased to French mobile phone operators . Service in this tunnel went live in July 2012 , and you can now use your phone to call / text / surf whilst travelling from France to England . It 's using French mobile operators though , so UK phones will be charged roaming just as they do in France . The South Tunnel , which is normally used for trains going from England to France , has been designated " England " as is to be leased to English mobile phone operators . However , despite being ready in 2012 , it took until <URL> , and as such mobile signal has only just started working in the UK to France direction . ( Quite why the UK networks were so useless is a different question ... ) The service from France - > UK , works well though , I can personally confirm it from earlier ! If you 're on the phone as you enter the tunnel , your call will continue uninterrupted , and work fine for the whole tunnel . However , just before leaving the tunnel your call will drop , as that 's where the French network ends . A few tens of seconds later your phone will sign-on with the UK network , and you 'll be able to call again . The service the other way , from the UK to France , still ( May 2014 ) seems to be suffering some teething problems . Mobiles do work , with the odd drop-out , but data is pretty flaky and suffers really slow speeds + long ping times . It 's possible they 'll sort that later , but for now internet largely only works in the " French tunnel " . ( I have managed to post to Travel.SE from the English tunnel , but it took most of the trip for the post to go through ! ) AFAICT , there is no mobile service offered in the third tunnel , the service tunnel , only the emergency radios work there .
The rule is actually 60 min for domestic , 120 min for international . Some companies , like Delta , even require 3 hours for international flights . That could have a series of motivations , mainly due to convenience . Bigger planes imply more luggage to load , more people to wait , more people to get on board . It seems reasonable that they do n't want the plane to get delayed with people who came barely earlier than 30 min . And they obviously need to admin on board everyone who came before the stipulated time .
Adioso lets you search for any time . Additionally Skyscanner lets you search across an entire month . Generally Skyscanner has a better range . <URL> has a good overview of searching for a trip in this way .
The <URL> states ( under " Online check-in " - > " Conditions " ) : Non EU/EEA passengers must proceed to the Wizz Air check-in desk for document check before proceeding through security to departure . Failure to do so may result in travel being denied . No exception is mentioned for intra-Schengen flights .
Mileage runs are absolutely still possible , it 's just a lot more complicated than it used to be and there 's no easy way to find them . For example , a simple " cents per mile " counter is useless these days , because almost all airlines have switched to awarding different amounts of miles for the same flight depending on the fare class , not to mention the byzantine complexity of different frequent flyer programs counting and awarding miles differently , bonuses for people who already have status , promotions etc etc , and the remaining deals are often found at the intersection of these . Following a specialist forum like <URL> remains your best bet for finding good deals . As an example , " <URL> " fares for any domestic JAL flight in Japan can be had for & yen ; 10,000 a pop ( actual value up to & yen ; 45,000 ) , which is great value in itself , and the cherry on top is that these award full miles on most oneworld frequent flyer programs -- but you ca n't even book Visit Japan fares online , so it 's not even theoretically possible to construct an engine that can find this . What would kill off mileage runs for good is switching to a simple " 1 mile per $ 1 paid " scheme . As discussed in <URL> , airlines all over the world are increasingly moving in this direction ; for example , for years now , Singapore Airlines has only awarded its highest status ( " PPS " ) to people who spend at least S$ 25,000 in cold , hard cash per calendar year . As far as I know , while nobody has gone whole hog yet , I suspect it 's just a matter of time until this happens , and a lot of hotel award programs already operate on this basis . And a personal opinion : I fly enough that doing more of it purely for Internet airline points has always struck me as silly . There are easier ways to both optimize point collection , like choosing your credit cards carefully and maximizing usage , and to get the most out of the points you have collected . There are some absolute gold mines to be found in the award charts .
I bussed in , but was not asked . However from experience , almost any country ' might ' ask you for onward travel , and they seem more likely to ask at airports - as allowing someone into another country without an exit strategy , or allowing you into their country without a way out can lead to someone getting fined ( an airline , for example ) . What I 've seen many people do ( including myself ) is just to buy a cheap bus ticket in advance , out the country . This gives me a valid exit if I choose to use it , and satisfies any questions that are asked .
When you 're making rules like this , simplicity and objectivity are vital . You do n't want ( whether you 're a traveller , a supervisor of the security staff , or a person trying to prevent terrorism ) a situation where security staff need to make decisions on their feet based on whether the passenger 's story is good enough or any other kind of judgement call . Hmm , you have shampoo and conditioner , well yes your hair is quite long , you may pass . Oh my , you are almost completely bald , why would you need conditioner , we 're confiscating this , and so on . Travellers want to be confident their stuff wo n't be banned . Staff need to be able to do their jobs as quickly and consistently as possible . And the person who made the rules needs to be sure they will always be enforced as imagined . That 's why you ca n't bring 50 ml of stuff in a 600 ml bottle . Reading the label and seeing that it says 600 ml is simple , unambiguous and consistent . It works even if the security staff are not that bright . And there 's no need for a complicated appeal process . Someone else reads the label and says yup , 600 ml , this is a no-go . There 's no argument about whether you have 80 ml left in the bottle or 120 ml left in the bottle . The rule is just about the bottle . Your little bottles are each under 100ml and all fit in the baggie of freedom ? You 're free to go . Nobody stops to say hey , each of these bottles appears to have the very same stuff in it . That would require judgement . The volumes - the 100 ml and the dimensions of the baggie of freedom - have been chosen so that even if you brought 6 or 7 bottles ( whatever can fit ) of the maximum allowed size all of the same stuff , you would n't be able to do much damage . ( And really , checking that they are all labelled as different things would n't do much - we can all make labels . ) Also , if you used larger sub-bottles - say 200 ml - you could get more total volume into the baggie , so using small sub-bottles is another way of constraining the total volume . Designing a very simple and consistent system makes the checking faster . It lets people bring shampoo , conditioner , lotion , toothpaste , shaving cream etc. . And it was set up so that it still constrains the bad guys . Sort of . It 's not that hard to circumvent , in reality , since there are exemptions for things that are labelled ( eg saline solution , prescription medication ) and tremendous trust in labels . But it 's all tradeoffs , and this certainly makes people feel protected . It even has some effect . Nothing is 100 % , but the liquid-reducing measures do mean that more conspirators would be required for most terror acts , and more conspirators means more chances to catch them before they even get to the airport .
I ended up calling Alaska Airlines about something else so also asked about this question . Turns out it does n't matter what the flight is marketed as , what matters is which airline is actually operating the flight . So they would give credits for all the flights listed in the question .
As far as I know Ryanair never stated that it is possible to bring on board an extra bag with the airport purchase , this is what is official . Anyway , in my personal experience it really depends on the policy applied by the airport : I 'm a frequent Ryanair passenger and I only found a single Ryanair airport not allowing carrying on board the duty free shop ( Budapest airport ) . In a lot of airports ( for example Alghero , Pisa , Cagliari , Bergamo ) loudspeakers and banners at the entrance of the shops inform the passangers that the airport security allows carrying on board an extra bag . My advice is to look for these banners once you arrive at the airport . I KEEP TRACK HERE OF THE AIRPORTS THAT ALLOW TO CARRY ON BOARD THE DUTY FREE BAG , feel free to edit . Allow : Alghero ( AHO , 06/2013 ) , Bergamo ( BGY , 08/2012 ) , Cagliari ( CAG , 06/2013 ) , Pisa ( PSA , 07/2013 ) , Tenerife South ( TFS , 03/2013 ) , Gran Canaria ( LPA , 07/2013 ) , Alicante ( ALC , 07/2013 ) Do n't allow : Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden ( FKB , 04/2013 ) , Budapest ( BUD , 07/2012 )
The purpose of the Schengen Treaty is to let EU/EEA citizens pass internal EU borders without having to wait in line to have their papers checked . This greatly simplifies cross-border travel and commerce since there are no delays . Earlier treaties allowed EU citizens to pass those borders without visa or passports , just with their national ID cards . Those are still in force . Travelers still have to carry their ID cards under Schengen rules , and they must be prepared to show them during random spot checks by border authorities . The way Schengen is supposed to operate , such random spot checks are truly random and infrequent . To my knowledge , no country has suspended the Schengen common visa policy or passport-free travel for EU/EEA citizens . Due to the refugee situation , some nations make the checks less random and much more frequent . While this greatly disrupts travel , it does not change who can enter and with which papers .
Yes , just apply for it with a few days buffer either side . I 've done this twice . The first time I entered as expected as it was very much a holiday . The second time I was travelling up Finland to the arctic circle , and then crossing there . The buses from Rovaniemi were not every day , so I ended up bussing to Ivalo , and then to Murmansk , getting there a couple of days later than planned . The only confusion at the border was that I was a Kiwi arriving on a Russian bus company from somewhere in Finland . And on a Russian business visa . But once the border guy was over that , there were no problems . Point is , I arrived a couple of days into the period my visa was valid for . And there is no problem with that - it 's just a maximum period of validity , not a fixed arrival/exit date . All websites will tell you - DO NOT book flights before applying for the visa , in case you do n't get it . However if you want to in order to save money , you might still consider doing it - I certainly did the first time . It 's a calculated risk , if you 're going as a tourist , have no criminal issues or problems that may give them problems with giving you a visa , have an invite and have travel insurance , there 's very little theoretical chance of them denying you . However , stranger things have happened . Personally I never book accommodation more than a few days in advance - which has caused me some grief ( I got the very last bed at the hostel I 'm staying at in Seattle this weekend ) , but one thing to be aware of with Russia is that they often ask where you 're staying . Last time I was n't sure , and just put the 5 biggest cities I was likely going through . That worked fine , and the cities are n't listed on your actual visa . If you 're worried and are happy with hostels , you can always just book one with Hostelbookers and if you do n't get your visa , email them and cancel your booking . You only lose your 10 % deposit .
Since you have one ticket , you do n't have to worry . If you miss your connection you will get transferred to the next available flight . Also most flights these days arrive ahead of time . There is <URL> epic answer that explains this in detail .
I had someone coming from Seattle to Vancouver to check out the station carefully and there is no sight of GE or NEXUS machines .
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
end question
start question
Is it possible to make a day-trip to a beach , from Seoul ?
Generally , the most popular tourist destination for beaches are located on East and South coast of Korea . With some minor exceptions , I 'd avoid West coast in general because most of their beaches look like this : I know one of your primary concerns is proximity of the destination via public transportation , but what you must know is that Korea has one of the finest public transportation system in the world . Given its system and the size of the country , you could almost reach anywhere in Korea within 3 hours . My recommendations are Haeundae Beach in Busan ] or Gyungpodae Beach in Gangneung . Both locations have clean , swimmable water with lots of infrastructures available . It takes approximately two hours from Seoul to Busan via KTX + maybe an hour to take the bus in between to get to the station and to the beach , you could easily set yourself a foot on Haeundae within three hours . To Gyongpodae Beach in Gangneung , you 'd have to take a bus in Express Bus Terminal . It takes about 2 hours and 30 minutes by bus + 30 minutes to get to the beach . Some of the answers here mentioned Eurwangni . If proximity is an absolute must to you ... you COULD try Eurwangni I guess , but you 'll probably be disappointed . If situation allows , I really recommend you take a day or two to visit Busan or Gangneung . Aside from swimming , there are tons of other activities you can do .
I had this problem in Batumi some years ago , except I think we were looking for somewhere around 7am-8am ( I do n't remember why , I think we needed to take an early mashrutka somewhere ) . Batumi is definitely not a " mornings " sort of town . If you want a coffee at midnight though , you 're spoiled for choice ! After lots of walking around , we found somewhere that was ( if I remember right ) opening at 8am but took pity on us and let us in early . I remember it being on the corner of a square / park one block from the beach and beach-facing parks . After some browsing on Google Maps , I think I 've found the place , <URL> . I do n't recognise the name but it looks similar to what I remember and the location looks right : <URL> There 's also apparently an 8AM-opening ice cream place further from the beach , off an even smaller square , <URL> - I 'm pretty sure this is n't the one I 'm thinking of , as I 'd probably remember if I 'd had ice cream for breakfast and it 's several blocks from the beach , but it might be another option . While browsing I also found a <URL> , that 's within 10 minutes walk from both the other options , so this is probably the best area to explore . Whether these places really do open that early , I ca n't say for sure ... But I believe it is possible . Good luck !
No , officially it is not possible to receive a passport check stamp for both flights . Source : I tweeted Ryanair if you could get the passport check stamp for both flights if one had two flights the same day and they were fast to respond that no , unfortunately not . <URL> That being said , I would for sure try and ask at your first departure if they would kindly also stamp your second boarding pass . I do not see anything airport - / flight-specific about the stamp as far as I can tell from <URL>
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
Any of the major car rental companies will allow a " One-way " rentals . Occasionally there are restrictions around specific locations , but in general if you 're planning to go from a major airport to another major airport you 'll have no problems at all . The issue is the price , which can vary dramatically depending on a number of factors . Some rental companies will charge a " drop fee " which will be a fixed amount , sometimes based on the distance between the two locations . Others will charge a higher per-day rate for one-way rentals . Some others will not charge extra for the rental , but will charge you an additional fee based on the number of miles you travel on the trip ( ie , the actual miles you drive , not the straight-line distance between the two locations ) . The best option is to look around at all of the various rental companies for the specific city pair and dates you 're after - if possible in both directions as sometimes it 's cheaper in one direction than the other . Travel websites like Orbitz.com can be good as they will show you multiple companies in one search , but sometimes for one-way you 'll get better rates when searching directly on the rental car companies site . Occasionally the rental companies will run " deals " for one-way rentals when they have a need to get cars out of a location - a few years ago I did a 3-day rental from Portland , OR to San Francisco , CA for a total cost of less than $ 20 ! These details are often listed on the rental car websites , but be careful as they do often have some strict restrictions such as no more than 7 days total rental . eg , Hertz currently has a deal for pickup in Arizona and drop-off in California , Colorado , Kansas , New Mexico , Oklahoma , Utah or Texas for <URL> !
I can add that we participate in the NYC Walkabout which runs annually . Unfortunately , the one this year already happened 3 weeks ago . walkaboutnyc.com
I 'm afraid you 'll have to learn Korean first ! From <URL> article from The Jeju Weekly : An after-school program for learning the dialect is offered in a couple of public schools . This suggests that it should be possible . The article even mentions an iPhone app about the <URL> , but I did n't find it . The Jeju Special Self Governing Province site has a page on the Jeju language ( <URL> , <URL> . The most useful part for you might be the contact name and phone number at the end .
Recently while planning my trip to Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam , I did a little research : I am not sure about direct buses from Siem Reap . However , Stueng Traeng is about 5 hours . From there , you can get a mini bus connection to Pakse . This takes about another 5 hours . From Pakse it is an overnight sleeper to Vientiane . If you have time , it is advisable to stop over either at ST or take a slight detour to Kratie . Stay overnight here , and then get a bus to Pakse ( an extra 2 hours ) . I also stumbled upon this website : <URL> , could be useful you , though the buses seem to start from Phnom Penh . You might be able to get more information from them . Another post I saw was about this couple who did a trip to Vientiane from Siem Reap via Thailand : <URL> . I finally dropped Laos from my itinerary , so can not advice you from personal experience though .
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
Easily , just go for the <URL> route : You can experience the scenic Bergen Railway , the breathtaking Flåm Railway , the Aurlandsfjord , the narrow Nærøyfjord and the steep hairpin bends of Stalheimskleiva ( May-September ) . The link above is to a commercial tour agency who will arrange the whole thing if you want ( 8.5 hours end to end ) , but you can quite easily do it by yourself , especially from Bergen . Just plan ahead by checking out the train and ferry schedules , as they do n't run all that often ... and consider overnighting along the way , so you can catch some bits without all the other tourists doing the N-in-a-N loop !
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
Economics , it 's likely that demand in one direction is higher , and as such the airlines can charge more . Or competition is lower in one direction , so they can make profits . Or landing / airport taxes might be higher , and they put it on that . This happens all over the world , and is part of travel hacking , trying to work out if you can get it cheaper ;) We have similar questions about other routes , so I 'll link to those for completeness : <URL> <URL> However the airline still needs to get back to pick up the pricey passengers , so it 's in their interest to fill the plane , even if it 's at a lower rate . As for discarding tickets , this happens , although airlines are n't always pleased . I 've seen a return ticket be cheaper than a one-way regularly . Fortunately , we have a question on this too : <URL>
Orlando to New York is 1740km so expect driving time to be more than 24 hrs whereas flying is 2hrs 30 min and should cost you around USD160 / - one way . Dont forget to include cost of stay if driving .
There is a related question <URL> however your situation is slightly different . You are looking to short-check one bag to Lisbon . As the related post says , airlines are often reluctant to do this as they wish to ensure that you are flying the itinerary as sold . People who request to short-check bags are sometimes attempting to take advantages of fare discrepencies to bypass the airline 's revenue management , and many airlines have instituted policies to prevent it . In your case , it is obvious that short-checking only one bag would not allow you to leave the airport at LIS . If the airline personnel are logical , they should understand this and tag only one bag to ORY and one to LIS . Technically , this is entirely possible . Update : I contacted TAP and they said all you need to do is inform their staff at check-in .
Yes , you can travel between the different terminals in CDG . Apparently , when connecting from terminal 2C to terminal 1 , if both your flights are from/to outside of Schengen , you can usually connect without entering France , with the <URL> . But in your case , you do not want to do that for now . As @phoog commented , the shopping area of terminal 2E is in the international zone . so you should not need to cross the border into France . What you want to do is take the blue shuttle that links terminal 2C and 2E . Once you are done you will have to take the blue shuttle back to terminal 2C , then the green shuttle to go to terminal 1 . If for some other reason ( typically to see your friend , since this friend might not be able to access the international zone ) , you want to cross the border : as an American passport holder , <URL> ( it is still a border , so the border agent may deny you the entry ) . Once you cross the border , you can go to terminal 2E , then to terminal 1 for your connection . To go from terminal 2 to terminal 1 , you have to take the CDGVal , that appears on the <URL> . Keep in mind that crossing the border may take some time . If your two flights are with different airlines , you will probably have to collect your luggage and check it in again , so that will take even more time .
Yes . I recently stayed at Calangute beach and a taxi driver took me to Old Goa and Panjim for 1400 rupees . This price is from a government table and is used by all the taxi drivers . If Panjim was not involved the ride would have cost around 1000 rupees . If you negotiate you can get it cheaper than the table price . I do n't remember exactly how long the journey took , but it was certainly not more than 90 minutes .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
The majority of US made cars have an automatic transmission as standard equipment . Manual transmissions are available but usually by special order . Car rental companies in the US tend to buy cars with automatics , since that is the preference of US drivers . And while yes there are European tourists who rent cars in the US and prefer manual transmissions , they are really just a small percentage of the rental customers . The reverse was true for many years in Europe in that only manual transmissions were available and Americans traveling in Europe had no choice but to drive a stick . There are some smaller rental companies that may offer manual transmissions at some locations or on some models , but at airport rental locations , it is usually the biggest companies and they pretty much offer automatics .
end question
start question
What happens if you miss a connecting flight ?
Generally , if you have a through booking , then if you miss the flight because of the airline 's fault then you become their problem . This does n't mean you 'll automatically get put on the next flight . You 'll need to talk to the airline and ask for help , and ask for re-booking . If the next flight has spare seats , then all should be well . Most likely though , you 'll get put on standby for the next flight , and hopefully will make the next one or the one after . As it 's the airline 's fault , you should get meal vouchers , help with a hotel if needed etc. ( Note - the exact level of help you get depends on the jurisdiction you 're in , and the home jurisdiction of the airline ) However , if you miss the connecting flight because of your own fault ( eg you fall asleep while waiting near the gate ) , then it 's probably no different to if you have two independent bookings ...
For a very short period after my family moved back from the UK to my home country , and while my grandmother was still alive , we used to spend time at her ( my father 's ancestral ) home , which until we refitted it , still used a squatting toilet . Being a bit on the chubby side and totally unprepared from such a thing in general , I found great trouble using them effectively . Here are some tips that helped me : Simplest solution is an awkward kneel ( put your knees on the floor to help balance ) . Depending on how big you are though , this may cause a mess . If it 's in a relatively small enclosure , you could put your hands on the walls to help balance , or if you have the ability to ; put holding bars on the side . Arms behind you , hands propping yourself off the floor . An unfortunately kamasutra-like position , but it works . Just make sure you really wash your hands afterwards . Do what I did and just travel to the nearest proper toilet if you can , it 's sanitary and will avoid any chance of an injury ( imagine your friend slipping and soiling , or even worse , hurting themselves ) . There may be a residence nearby that has a proper one , and I 'm sure if you explain your situation and maybe give them an offering of thanks , an amicable solution can be reached :)
If you are at a land border and inadmissible in both directions , you 'll be taken to a detention centre . In the scenario you described , most likely <URL> . They will book you in and then go over your travel document ( s ) with a view to determining where you are admissible . They will contact the consulate where you have citizenship and let them know you are in custody . Once they have determined the next steps , they will serve you with a removal order . If it happens in Russia , you 'll go to the <URL> ( local magistrate ) and get a five year ban , you can also expect to get dunned for their expense . Estonia has a similar sanction , but it operates under the <URL> . Once the paperwork is complete , you 'll be escorted to a removal centre . In Estonia , it would be at <URL> , and in Russia there 's one at <URL> . In most cases , you 'll be issued a one-way travel document and placed on the appropriate ( civil ) flight . Nobody gets stuck forever in a gulag . If the receiving country has no problems with you , the removing country will give your actual travel document to the airline staff and you 'll get it back once the flight has cleared the removing country 's air space . I 've been in the one at Sheremetyevo ( on the representation side ) , the biggest concern they have is finding out the REAL reason you are in their country . Also , you need to really hope there were no crimes committed in the area where you were caught . I have no experience in Tallinn . Overall , it 's comparable to detention anywhere ; the biggest problem people face is the language barrier in the day-to-day world as their paperwork is getting sorted out . From end-to-end , the process would take a maximum of two weeks . When you debrief people who have been removed , they invariably report that the conditions are civil , and the most harrowing part of the experience was the screwballs they encountered whilst in detention . NOTE : your scenario takes place where there are clear land borders . If your scenario took place at a disputed border , like in Morocco , things could get exponentially more complex very quickly . This answer is scoped to stable countries only and the intervention occurs at a control point . If you are caught deeply inland in Russia , you will be in trouble . Also countries and regions not mentioned in this answer are out of scope . Related : <URL> Adding ... Further to the comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) , depending upon how the control point is laid out , there may be a ' discussion ' by the border guards over who has jurisdiction . My best guess is given in the first paragraph . BUT ... For the scenario described , the OP should try to get taken into custody by the Russians ( even if they have to run to the interior ) .
Taking Complimentaries Home I would say that it all boils down to how cheap you want to look , in the eyes of the hotel management . If you do n't care , and probably you should n't , then there are some things you can take with you upon check-out . Taking Consumables As a general rule I would say : you can take anything that is single-serving . For the purpose of this answer , the definition of single-serving includes anything that , if opened/used , can not be re-used by the next guest . Hence an incomplete list would include : soap bars , shampoos , sewing kits , shaving sets , shower caps , slippers , shoe buffing kits , chocolates , etc. . Most of these items are often prey of serial collectors , in particular shampoo bottles and slippers . Hotel rooms often also include branded material like pens , pencils , notepads , postcards , and the like . These can be considered as marketing material . Every time you use the hotel 's pen , for example , you will indirectly be advertising the brand . It is probably safe to assume that the hotel management will be OK with you taking such items with you when you leave . The mini-bar is a completely different story . You can safely assume that anything in the mini-bar will be chargeable . Some hotels however offer complimentary water bottles to their guests . When in doubt , ask . Recycling Plastic Toiletry Containers You could also be fighting the recycling crusade , and using your ecological struggle within to justify yourself when taking shampoo bottles . According to <URL> : I was shocked to learn that the vast majority of hotels in the US have no recycling program , meaning that untold millions of these plastic bottles end up in landfills each year . Leave Towels , Linen , and Furniture However , you can not take anything that is not single-serving . This includes towels , bathrobes , coat hangers , sheets , pillow cases , etc. . Towels and linen can be washed and re-used by other guests . Taking them would be considered stealing . You can not of course take anything that is part of the furniture , or the design of the room . <URL>
There are locations that fly to LHR that do not conform to international norms regarding international safety . Lagos , Nigeria , for example , does not conform to certain protocols , and Therefore is not considered secure . Rather than ferreting out individual flights , it is considered prudent simply to screen all passengers again .
It 's possible , but you would have to charter your own speedboat , which would be stupidly expensive : quotes on the net vary from 8000 baht for a privately negotiated transfer to 15000 baht ( ! ) to getting the Holiday Inn to pick you up in their own boat . Staying another night and taking the ferry across the next day will thus almost certainly be cheaper . In addition , the feasibility and cost of this will depend on weather conditions , and the crossing will be actively dangerous if your departure is delayed for any reason and you end up doing it at night : those speedboats are fast and you 're screwed if you hit anything in the dark . Also , Destination Air used to offer a seaplane shuttle for 5000 baht/seat , but this stopped running a few years ago .
Considering the airline in question is British Airways , you should be able to change any other flights if they are in the same booking . If you are booked to travel on a flight that is cancelled , you can either : Rebook onto another British Airways flight at a later date at no extra charge and subject to availability OR Cancel your booking and claim a refund to the original form of payment If your booking also includes any other BA flights that are not cancelled you will be able to change these flights at the same time . Source : <URL> The question remains if you get the same class while rescheduling because if you do n't then you will have to pay DOF ( Difference of Fare ) charges . This is an airline specific question , such conditions are subject to airline policy and they are the best place to contact for information . If your flight was n't BA then this wo n't be applicable .
This situation is hard to answer , as the trains has much more stable schedule rather than planes , so there are no such situations I can find about Russian railways . This could be two ways - the border officers would have a previous date stamps or not . If the train would be delayed and dates switched , your friend still has a trouble . But , again , this situation is no so probable as the trains in Moldova have n't been delayed recently . However , in 2014 there was an accident on this train ( <URL> ) and it has been delayed for a 6 hours . After that , before the accident results were fixed , trains were delayed up to 4 hours ( <URL> ) on this route . So , if your friend feels unlucky , she can use other options , but I think this is safe for she to use this train , as in case of emergency it will be easier to explain the visa date expiration .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
The specific terms under which an airline will rebook you , refund you , or otherwise are laid out in its Contract of Carriage ( or Conditions of Carriage ) , which in turn may be constrained by regulations in the country where the airline is based or where the flight is operated , as well as various international treaties . In the event of bad weather , most U.S.-based airlines will attempt to reschedule you on a later flight on the same airline . Naturally , this works out better on routes where there are twelve daily departures than where there are one , as with many international routes . Because phenomena like bad weather , volcanoes , sunspots , air traffic control restrictions , and the like affect all airlines , they are unlikely to endorse your ticket to a different carrier , unless the situation is extraordinary , or you are an extraordinarily high value customer to them . If you can not wait two days for the next available seat , they may issue a travel voucher or partial refund . For example , according to the <URL> , bad weather ( " meteorological conditions " ) constitutes a " Force Majeure Event " : American may , in the event of a force majeure event , without notice , cancel , terminate , divert , postpone or delay any flight or the right of carriage or reservation of traffic accommodations without liability except to issue an involuntary refund . The involuntary refund will be made in the original form of payment in accordance with involuntary refund rules for any unused portion of the ticket . American will also reserve the right to determine if any departure or landing should be made without any liability except the afore mentioned involuntary refund . Force majeure events encompass quite a few things that it is difficult to plan for ; from the <URL> these include a ) Any condition beyond UA 's control including , but not limited to , meteorological or geological conditions , acts of God , riots , terrorist activities , civil commotions , embargoes , wars , hostilities , disturbances , or unsettled international conditions , either actual , anticipated , threatened or reported , or any delay , demand , circumstances , or requirement due directly or indirectly to such condition ; b ) Any strike , work stoppage , slowdown , lockout , or any other labor-related dispute involving or affecting UA 's services ; c ) Any governmental regulation , demand or requirement ; d ) Any shortage of labor , fuel , or facilities of UA or others ; e ) Damage to UA 's Aircraft or equipment caused by another party ; f ) Any emergency situation requiring immediate care or protection for a person or property ; or g ) Any event not reasonably foreseen , anticipated or predicted by UA . Given that , I would say the best real protection is purchasing an insurance policy that will cover you in the event of the above situations , either by reimbursing you room and board while you wait or for alternative transportation . Be careful , though , as much travel insurance in fact excludes these very same conditions .
Several years ago IATA ( International Air Transport Association ) recognized that baggage charges on tickets which multiple carriers were a mess . For example , if you were flying a domestic flight on one airline followed by an international flight with a different airline then there was little consistency around how you would be charged for checked bags - especially if the airlines had different " free " baggage allowances . In order to resolve this problem , IATA passed Resolution 302 which sets the rules for how baggage allowances and charges should be applied on multi-airline itineraries . The rules in Resolution 302 are not simple , and they are not intended to be used directly by humans at check-in counters - but instead are intended to be built into the booking/check-in systems of airlines so that the correct price can be calculated by the system . Google will find no end of references on <URL> for you , but in short it states that the baggage rules of the " Most Significant Carrier " ( MSC ) apply . To work out the " MSC " for a flight you need to understand how IATA " regions " work , but for a simple case like an domestic flight followed by an international flight ( or vica versa ) the baggage rules/fees of the carrier operating the international flight will apply . Do not confuse which airlines rules/fees apply with who will actually charge you those fees . If you are flying a domestic flight on one airline followed by an international flight with another , then the international carriers rates will apply - but they will be charged by the first airline you fly - ie , the domestic carrier . The implementation of this resolution by carriers is still patchy . Although most ( all ? ) larger airlines have implemented the rules , many smaller/regional carriers have not . There are also issues introduced when non-standard rules apply to a passenger , such as when you have status on an airline which results in free baggage ( especially for a flight other than the first ) where the systems are not necessarily capable of correctly calculating the fees .
The short version is that <URL> . If your parents come to the US and incur massive medical bills , the hospital/insurance company can try to claim the back from the parents , but not you . And if your parents have no assets in the United States , it will generally be difficult to impossible to enforce payment of those debts overseas . Travel insurance is generally sold as a standalone product , where the insurance company takes on all the risk and does not require any sort of co-signed or guarantor . Since your parents apparently arranged their own insurance , there 's no way you could have accrued any legal liability for it . One potential exception : If your parents should happen to die in the United States , there is a possibility that you would be held responsible for their medical bills under <URL> laws , but these vary from state to state and are <URL> unless there 's evidence of ill will ( eg . you siphoning your parents ' bank accounts dry ) . Due to the ridiculous cost of medical treatment in the US , travel insurance to the US is usually expensive , doubly so if you are elderly . So in your shoes , I would be more concerned with checking that the coverage is adequate . Otherwise there is a low but non-zero risk of your parents being refused admission to a hospital , especially if it 's not directly life-threatening medical emergency .
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
In Switzerland it will depend if it 's an illegal article or if you fail to pay duty . In the first case ( if it 's mildly illegal , usually counterfeit watches , I 'm not talking guns or anything ) they 'll just seize it and <URL> it , no fine involved . There is a slight chance that the copyright owner might <URL> , but I think the chances are you 'll just lose the product but be fine . I guess the same will happen if you take some seeds or some meat from outside the EU or something else that 's prohibited . If you fail to declare something that you have to pay duty on however , you 're likely to have to pay a fine on top of the duty fee . That happens quite often to people <URL> on the other side of the border .
<URL> Former London flight attendant Mrs Meho said there 's little cabin crew can do with a corpse , so the priority is to place the body out of sight . " We make the body comfortable , " Mrs Meho said . " Either that means taking it somewhere discreet or lying the body flat and covering with a blanket . If there are not seats we ' prop ' the body up . " " We can place them ( bodies ) anywhere , but not a lavatory , " Sharon said . " We are also given the option of putting an oxygen mask on the person and simply saying they did n't feel well , even if we were sure they had gone to meet their maker . "
Special pants are a must . I 'd start looking at sites like <URL> to get an idea . One thing that I would very much suggest is if you have any avid ski enthusiast friends talk to them because they would give you pointers on what is good and where to get it . But a short list for what you need is : Warm socks Pants Warm boots . Ski Gloves Ski Jacket ( Simple warm or even down jacket wo n't do ) I am sure I am missing something on this list but this will be a good start .
I 've had a malfunctioning barcode passport ( those pre-biometric hologrammed ones ) for 10 years . Basically ever since I first got the passport I was unable to successfully scan it anywhere I went . During that timespan I travelled many countries , including and not limited to the US , India and Australia , and it never worked . What happens in case the automatic scan does n't work is that the customs officer tries scanning it again and when that fails too they enter the passport number manually in the system . That 's it . I would say you have nothing to worry about . Unless there are valid reasons for not letting you in the country you should be fine . In case you just want to know if the RFID works you can try reading it using a dedicated reader ( or a compatible mobile phone ) . <URL> but at least you 'll know if the chip responds .
All passengers arriving in the US , regardless of whether they are connecting or not , need to collect their bags and pass through US Customs with them . If you have a connecting flight you can then drop your bags for the onwards flight . This is true both for domestic and international connections . Thus you will definitely have access to your bags in DFW , and will have time to put the duty free into them before re-checking . As you are connecting to an international destination you can also purchase Duty Free once you have cleared security in DFW for your flight to Canada , and then carry it on for your flight .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
The check-in desk never checks the passport number , so he 's good to go . Source : flew with Turkish after getting a new passport .
end question
start question
What are prepaid SIM card options for data in the UK ?
Finally I got a 3 ( <URL> ) SIM for 1 pound and unlimited traffic data for 15 pounds . You can get a 10 pounds - 500Mb plan too . All of these things as a prepaid plan and working in less than a minute . You get a ticket with a code to set your SIM card credit and that 's all . Take a look at their plans <URL> .
I 'm far from being an expert in sailing , but being a native speaker helps when searching so this is what I came across : <URL> ( PDF , 24.4 MB ) CONTENTS Introduction Sail the Ionian Sea Sail around Peloponnese and Kythira Sail around Attica and Saronikos Gulf Sail through the Cyclades Sail through the Sporades Sail the North Aegean Sea Sail around the Dodecanese Sail around Crete Discover a variety of water sports activities Useful Information It 's not very detailed , but a good starting point I reckon . Enjoy your holiday !
Since the card is prepaid , is there any reason to not keep using it until it cuts off ? You might want to keep it for voice use only ( where roaming charges are not as high ) as a backup or when you enter a new country and do n't have a local SIM card yet . Theoretically , you can also cash out unused credit under some circumstances , but it 's probably not worth the hassle . ( And when we that be ? There 's $ 10 of voice credit with the account . ) It depends on the details of your Belgian provider 's terms of service , but typically the roaming data usage will eat into that credit , and once it 's used up ( probably after a few MB ) it will stop working . There are some prepaid plans that will automatically top up the credit from your bank account or credit card every time it runs out , but this is usually a feature you have to activate separately ( and should , of course , avoid ) .
From <URL> , zooming in on the map , we see that the Princes Risborough end of the mustard line is at the junction of Church St , Duke St , and High St. <URL> , we can see a Cycle Route sign indicating that Thame is 7.5 miles away on Route 57 , matching the information on the sustrans page near enough . At the Thame end , we are looking for access from Windmill Road . The signage is even worse here , but there is <URL> . As for Furthermore it seems to be high street and other roads . I was hoping to use it for some running . The name Phoenix Trail seems to sometimes include the 2.5 miles from Princes Riseborough to the traffic-free section , and sometimes not . In <URL> : Distance : 5 miles traffic-free Terrain : Level route on disused railway Getting there : 2 miles signed on road from Princes Risborough to Horsenden But on <URL> The Phoenix Trail is flat , well-surfaced and ideal for wheelchairs and pushchairs . There is also seating every 500 metres . The first 2.5 miles out of Thame are surfaced with tarmac and the remainder with compacted limestone dust . The 5 mile traffic-free section looks like where you want to be running .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
You would have to get a prepaid card ; but you wont be able to make calls to India from a prepaid number - a 20 Euro charge will probably give you around 5mins talktime to foreign countries before it is depleted ... Get one of those phone cards where you call a special number and you have much better rates ( " calling cards " , see comments ) ; the area around the Main Train station in Frankfurt should have shops who sell those cards . You are probably better off using skype to call home . Do n't buy anything at the Airport ; too expensive .
When can flights be booked ? Tickets go one sale twice a year on a fixed day common to all airlines . For example , tickets for flights from March 27 through October 29 , 2016 all went on sale at 9:30 am on January 27 . The day when tickets go on sale is announced a couple weeks beforehand . The old system of selling tickets only from two months before departure is however still used on a few minor routes . Also , flights which are not yet on sale on the domestic market can usually be booked as part of an international ticket . For tourists : flat 10,800 yen per flight with ANA and JAL The two major carriers All Nippon Airways ( ANA ) and Japan Airlines ( JAL ) have a simple fare for foreign visitors : 10,800 yen per flight ( plus a couple hundred yen of taxes ) , on all flights . They differ on some details , however , which are described below . Note that , on some short or very competitive routes , the regular advance booking fare available to everybody ( described below ) may be cheaper than that . Both fares require a round-trip or open-jaw international ticket from a foreign country to Japan , with no restriction on the airline ( contrary to some earlier offers which required flying into Japan on an airline in the same alliance ) . ANA 's fare is called " Experience Japan " . It can only be booked on the local ANA website for a country other than Japan ( usually , but not necessarily , one 's country of residence ) , and must be booked at least three days in advance . The checked baggage allowance is one piece of up to 20kg , as with regular domestic ANA fares . Changes and refunds are not permitted . There is no limit on the number of flights which can be booked . Flights of five regional airlines which codeshare with ANA ( Air Do , Ibex , Starflyer , Solaseed Air , and Oriental Air Bridge ) are also eligible . JAL 's fare is called " Japan Explorer " , it has <URL> . The conditions are mostly the same as with ANA 's , except that the checked baggage allowance is two pieces of up to 23kg each , as on JAL 's international flights . On the other hand , only up to five domestic flights can be booked per international ticket . In addition to flights of JAL itself , only flights of its subsidiaries J-Air and Japan Transocean Air are eligible , and not flights of other JAL group airlines such as Japan Air Commuter . JAL has an <URL> for flights to the Tohoku region : 5,400 yen per flight . That one , however , requires flying to Japan on a Oneworld airline , and must be booked by phone to a JAL reservation center . A promotional JAL fare similar to the Tohoku one was recently introduced for <URL> from Tokyo or Osaka , to assist with the revitalisation efforts of the region after the earthquakes of April 2016 . It is currently available for flights until October 29 , 2016 , but may ( or may not ) be extended when tickets for flights from October 30 willl go on sale . For everybody : advance booking discounts and budget carriers Advance booking discounts Both <URL> and <URL> offer advance booking discounts , which must be booked on the airline 's Japanese website ( which is also available in English ) . The best fares are available by booking up to 75 days before departure , the " second-best " up to 55 days , and likewise up to 45 , 28 , and 21 days . Even booking just a couple days in advance will give some discount over the full fare , which is only applied for last-minute purchases , or when all discounted seats have sold out . Flights of the five regional airlines mentioned above can also be booked through ANA . Flights of all JAL group airlines as well as of Fuji Dream Airlines and Amakusa Airlines can be booked through JAL . Budget carriers There are five carriers which can be considered " budget " : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( website in Japanese only for flights within Japan ) . They mostly serve Japan 's major peripheral cities , such as Sapporo , Fukuoka or Naha , from Tokyo and/or Osaka . They also serve some more minor cities , especially on the islands of Kyushu and Shikoku . Skymark is a bit of a " premium budget " , in particular all its tickets include a 20kg checked baggage allowance , and also it is the only one of the five which flies domestically from Tokyo 's more centrally located Haneda airport . ( The other four use Narita , with Peach also using Haneda for international flights only . ) As a general rule of thumb , the sticker price for a flight in a low-demand period ( middle of the week , not during holidays ) is normally about 8,000 yen with Skymark and 5,000 with the others . However , taxes and payment fees can add up to 1,000 yen , and checked baggage fees can exceed 2,000 yen on long routes or with heavy baggage . During high-demand periods , they usually come close to ANA 's or JAL 's , since then mostly everything can sell out quickly . All five run frequent sales campaigns ( once or twice monthly ) , during which fares can sink to about 2,000 yen , with the best discounts being again for flights in low-demand periods . Peach is the only one which announces them on its English website
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
There will be absolutely no change for you . No change in visa requirements . No change in anything . Firstly , post-referendum the UK government need to work out terms of the exit . Based on prior examples , this could take forever ! Then , <URL> . The Treaties shall cease to apply to the State in question from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement or , failing that , two years after the notification referred to in paragraph 2 , unless the European Council , in agreement with the Member State concerned , unanimously decides to extend this period . O.m. Is slightly misguided - there is no way to immediately do this .
There are 3 major carriers in Argentina Claro , Movistar and Personal All three offer prepaid cards you can buy on literally hundred of shops around the city ( I am not sure were in Buenos Aires you are going , but if you are traveling to Capital Federal , then you will find shops on the streets , on every shopping mall , and big movie complex . There are some impromptu sidewalk shops across big avenues , but the discount you will get with them is not worth it ) . The first thing they will sell you is the chip ( SIM ) which is around $ 30 ( $ 6 USD ) . Once the number is activated , which is instantly , you can charge your new number on any kiosk around the city . You will see signs with a legend like ( " Cargamos Personal/Movistar/Claro " ) . You will be asked for your number and the amount you want to charge and they will send you the credit instantly.You should receive an SMS confirmation with your new credit . You will have to pay with cash on most of the Kiosks . If you want to use a CC go to a branded store or use the online option at the official website for the carrier . <URL> / <URL> / <URL> Make sure to ask the seller for current " deals " . Quite often you will find 2x1 on all your credit ( You will get $ 200 for $ 100 ) or unlimited SMS for 1 day , or free 500 SMS . All three companies currently offer unlimited 3G for $ 1 peso a day ( $ 0.20 USD ) . For Claro and Movistar ( and probably Personal ) you have free calls for clients of the same company . Prices will vary A LOT depending on your plan . Make sure to ask the person selling you the chip which one is more convenient . In Capital Federal is quite easy to find free WiFi . Almost every coffe shop , fast food chain or shopping mall will have open and free spots . Finally if you are visiting Argentina with United States Dollars or Euros remember there is a huge differente between the official price and the paralel valuation . $ 1USD can either be $ 4.90 pesos or $ 7.50 pesos depending which market you trade . Hope it helps !
From the Ukrainian point of view , <URL> in 2014 . As a result , transport options have been restricted from both the Ukrainian and the Russian side . In addition , it is now necessary to have a Russian visa ( or visa-free passport ) in order to access the Crimean territory . Flights In September 2015 , all flights between Russia/Crimea and Ukraine <URL> . So it would take at least two transfers from Kiev in order to reach Crimea : Bus It 's possible to take a <URL> from Kiev to Sevastopol for ~ 40 $ , however foreigners ( as in , everyone except Ukrainians ) now require a <URL> to cross the Ukraine/Crimea border : On September , 16 , 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed the Resolution No 722 , amending the Procedure for entry to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and exit from it regarding the entry to and exit from Crimea by foreign nationals , inter alia : Extract from the Para 3 of the Resolution : Foreign nationals can entry and exit from temporary occupied territory of Ukraine through special check points by presenting a passport and special permission issued by territorial body of State Migration Service of Ukraine or territorial body of Department for Migration Service of Ukraine in Novotroitsky or Genichesky district of Kherson oblast . This permission can only be issued to persons having relatives/property in Crimea or <URL> . Therefore this option is probably not reasonable for most travelers . On Foot The land border can be crossed on foot , but that option requires a special permission ( see the section above ) . Trains <URL> connect Ukraine to Crimea , however it 's possible to take a train to the Ukrainian border in the Kherson region . From the border region one could in theory cross on foot ( see the section above ) . Going from Crimea to Ukraine Unless you 've previously acquired the above-mentioned special permission and entered Crimea via Kherson , it 's impossible to cross into Ukraine from Crimea over land . The Ukrainian border guards could either deny you entry or arrest you for illegally entering the Ukrainian territory through Russia . Conclusion Flying via Moscow is probably the only feasible way for most tourists . Note that this option is technically illegal from the Ukrainian point of view , so I would avoid talking about Crimea to Ukrainian border guards in the future .
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
Singapore has three mobile phone operators and given the small size of the country , their coverage is fairly similar . Their offerings are n't very differentiated for contract plans , but for pre-pay plans there are some differences . <URL> has a ' Super Surfer Pack ' that offers 1 GB of data for S$ 7 valid for 7 days . <URL> offers a mobile data plan that either costs S$ 18 for 5 days of unlimited Internet , or a S$ 32 prepaid SIM with add-on data plans ranging from S$ 3 to S$ 32 with different validity lengths and data transfer limits . <URL> has a similar offering as Singtel , offering 1GB of data for S$ 7 . All you need to get a pre-pay SIM is your passport and then you can buy the SIM cards from any convenience store , or a company-specific mobile phone shop . I also wrote about <URL> - it 's a bit out-of-date but may be helpful nevertheless .
Weekly travelcard : Contactless weekly travelcard is only from Monday to Sunday , so if you arrive and leave mid-week , you might get better rates if you still get an Oyster card , and buy a weekly travelcard on that . On the other hand it might still be cheaper if you do n't intend to travel every day for 7 days to just use your Contactless and use the daily capping rates . Also , if you start your journey after 9:30 every day inside zones 4-6 , and do this at least twice in a week then you 're eligible for the ( not really advertised ) <URL> , which you get as a refund . Getting this refund to an Oyster card as a visitor is usually not possible , as you have to get back to the UK and touch in , but for contactless they can simply just refund to your card , even when you 're long gone . This is also true for any kind of refunds ( like if you forget to touch out somewhere ) : if you 're on contactless you can easily get the refund back to your bank account , but on Oyster you have to be physically present and get a refund at one of the stations by touching in . Boat services : If you plan on using the Thames Clipper boat services , then they offer discounts for people with Oyster cards and/or people with daily/weekly/monthly travelcards ( both paper and oyster ones ) . These discounts are not available for Contactless users . Also from mid September 2015 Oyster cards will be accepted on boat services , but Contactless users have to wait until mid-2016 Buses and trams : There are some slight changes when you use Contactless that will usually not affect your travel though : Contactless payment cards are <URL> on routes 402 and 477 or on the heritage buses which run some journeys on parts of route 15 On Oyster you get the " tram feeder " rates when switching between the trams and the T buses at Addington Village ( you only have to pay for one trip instead of two separate ones ) , but with Contactless you have to pay two separate tickets ( although their site <URL> I occasionally do this trip and it still counts as two separate ones on Contactless , I did n't try to argue with them to get a refund ) This is really a minor difference though , and probably does n't much affect visitors from abroad ( unless visiting friends/relatives in New Addington ) . Banking costs : See @JoErNanO 's answer about potential foreign banking costs associated with Contactless cards
So , the first thing to say is that you almost never want to use a regular sim card from outside of North America while you 're over there . The data roaming charges your home provider charges tend to be extreme ( Vodafone UK currently charges something like # 30/mb in the US , and Tor-Einar 's German provider in the comments charges almost $ 40/mb ) . For Europeans , this has actually got a bit worse recently - the recent changes to how much the networks are allowed to charge for roaming within the EU has led to many of them pushing up their ex-EU charges . If your friend is n't going to be over for very long , or is n't going to be using very much data , then their best bet is a roaming SIM . You 'll normally have to pay either a moderate fee to get the roaming SIM , or a small monthly fee ( different providers have different models ) , then when abroad you 'll have fairly cheap calls , texts and data . Generally it does n't matter where in the world you go , your calls/text/data will be a little bit more expensive than your home package charges at home , which is a tiny bit more than a local SIM card would charge you , but an order of magnitude cheaper than your regular phone roaming . The advantage of a roaming SIM is you get it once , put some credit onto it , then use it no matter where in the world you happen to be that week . No need to go buy a new sim , load credit onto that , lose credit when you leave etc. . Just pop the roaming SIM into your phone and you 're good to go ! ( I use <URL> , who are OK but not amazing , many other alternatives exist . TruPhone in the states charges 10p/minute for call , 10p per text and 20p/mb . They 're <URL> in Canada , at 36p/minute for calls , 30p per text , and whopping # 3/mb . Even with those higher prices , they 're still an order of magnitude cheaper than Vodafone UK 's roaming costs ! ) If you 're going to be in a country for getting on for a month , or you 're planning to make a lot of calls / data charges , then the slight premium you pay on a roaming SIM adds up . In that case , you 'll want to buy a local Pay-As-You-Go / Pre-Pay ( names vary between countries ) SIM , chuck some credit on it , and use that . If you 're going to do a lot of data , it 's normally worth getting a pre-pay data bundle ( where you buy the data up-front ) , as that 's almost always cheaper than paying one MB at a time . You might think that you could buy a PAYG sim in either Canada or the US , and use it in the other . While technically it will work , the costs for roaming into the other country will be almost as bad as the roaming costs on your home phone , so you wo n't want to do it ! You may find <URL> from last year helpful
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
I 've used a lot of these cards almost since they were introduced to the market over a decade ago , so I 'm drawing on my experience here ( technical corrections are welcome ) : Prepaid debit cards in the US come in two major classes : reloadable and non-reloadable . Non-reloadable cards are purchased with a fixed amount of U.S. dollars on the card , and can not be topped up . Once they are empty , they can be discarded . These are often sold as " gift cards " , do not require an ID check , and can be found in most grocery stores , drugstores , shopping malls , etc. . They generally have a flat fee for purchase of the card , and usually no other fees . The highest denomination I have ever seen for these is $ 1000 , though I believe the law allows for them to have up to $ 3000 . Most are in the $ 25 - $ 100 range , though higher denominations can be found with some shopping . You will receive a card immediately at the point of purchase , usually with the name of GIFT CARD or something similar . This once caused one cashier to glance at the receipt as I was finishing my purchase and tell me " Thanks for coming in today , Mr. Gift . " Reloadable cards are purchased with an arbitrary amount of money loaded on the card , and can be topped up at any time . These typically carry monthly fees , top-up fees , and sometimes transaction fees . They also require an ID check , and the issuer may restrict issuance to US residents . ( Thanks , PATRIOT act ! ) They can be loaded with up to $ 3000 at any given time , though the issuing bank may have a lower limit . Reloadable cards may have to be mailed to you at a US address ; you do not typically get the card at point of purchase , though you may get a temporary card . The card you receive in the mail will have your name on it , and it generally takes about a week or two to arrive . As far as I know , neither type can be obtained from outside the US ; you must obtain them in person at a point of purchase . Both types of cards will have a web site where you can register the card and associate a physical address in the US with it for the purpose of online shopping . The web site will also show the activity on the card and its current balance . For reloadable cards , the registration is mandatory and you will do it as part of the process of purchasing the cards . For non-reloadable gift cards , it is optional , and only needed if you wish to use the card to make online purchases . ( And those virtual cards you mention are only usable online ; they can not be used in physical stores . ) Which type is better for you , I think only you can say . But I would think that a high-value non-reloadable card or two would be the way you would want to go here . My favorite place to get them is at shopping malls ; the mall customer service desk will sell them , generally in denominations up to $ 250 or $ 500 depending on the mall , usually for a fee of about $ 5 . Finally , a usage note : When your card gets near empty , you can instruct a merchant to charge the exact amount remaining on the card , and then pay the remaining balance via another payment method , as long as you are n't doing this at a restaurant , hotel or possibly gas station ( since these places may authorize an amount higher than the amount given and settle the exact amount a few days later ) . This allows you to empty out the card and not lose any money . You might also consider just using your own credit cards while in the US ; if they have a magnetic stripe and are Visa , MasterCard , American Express , etc. , they should work in most places in the US except for " pay at the pump " gas station pumps ( <URL> ) . You 'll usually get a good exchange rate , too , though this does seem to vary a lot by country and bank . Note that Maestro cards do not generally work for purchases here , though they work at most ATMs .
After <URL> in which bombs were connected to mobile phones , new law has been passed . Each and all phone lines have to be registered to a person using it . Which means that in practice , buying any SIM , including pre-paid ones , requires you to present identification and valid address in Spain . That being said , you should n't have any problems at all buying the SIM once you 're already there . Even at the airport . <URL> . Vodafone , Movistar , Orange are major providers , which have their SIM cards sold everywhere . Yoigo and Simyo are quite major MVNOs and also should be easily available . Many others are tied to supermarket chain , social network etc. .
There are only three operators in Australia that actually own and operate their own networks , and they are : <URL> , the former state monopoly . My usual recommendation if you 're planning to travel even slightly off the beaten track , since they have the widest network by a long shot , but a bit more expensive than the competition . <URL> , an arm of Singapore 's SingTel , and a good choice if you want to save a few pennies and are sticking mostly to the cities . <URL> aka Vodafail , the local branch of the multinational , infamous for poor coverage and network instability issues and recommended only if you 're a masochist . As a representative anecdote , two friends of mine who worked for Vodafone had their wedding in Yarra Valley , a popular tourist destination just outside Melbourne , and the winery they chose , 1 km off the main highway , had zero Vodafone coverage . Both have now quit , and neither uses Vodafone any more ! All three have booths just outside Customs at both Sydney and Melbourne ( and probably other major airports too ) . I 'm not going to go into plan details , since these change at the drop of a hat , but at time of writing ( Dec 2014 ) Optus 's $ 2/day with 500MB/day plan is about as good as it gets . It 's probably worth mentioning that comparing plans in Australia is ( intentionally ) really difficult , since all operators work on a basis of giving you funny money and pricing everything in funny money . For example , paying $ 20 might get you $ 200 of " credit " , but phone calls then cost you $ 7/min ( actually $ 0.70 / min ) , and of course the ratio of real money to credit varies based on the operator and plan you pick . There are also " virtual operators " ( MVNO ) like <URL> and <URL> that license the big boys ' networks . They claim to be cheaper , and occasionally may be , but tend to have really shoddy customer support , puny data speed limits in the small print , etc. . The small savings are n't worth the potential for big hassle in my opinion , but YMMV . Source : Have used SIMs from all three companies , and seen my wife struggle with a MVNO I shall not deign to advertise . Currently on Telstra and happy with it .
You can use the InterRail with any train in France ( or Europe ) run by state railways except the Eurostar ( from Paris to London ) . If you 're going to use the TGV you have to know that reservations are mandatory so you 'll have to take care of that before getting into a TGV . When you 'll receive your InterRail it will contain some papers that tell you what train require reservations , maps and other useful informations so you do n't have to worry about anything . RATP is not supported because it 's just for Paris metropolitan area . As long as you travel between two cities ( towns , villages , etc. ) and the train is from SNCF ( or any other state railways company in Europe ) you can use your Interrail pass . And yes , www.bahn.de is the best when it comes to information about trains in Europe . I have found free rooms in all cities I 've been to but it takes so little to book a room that I highly recommend doing it because you do n't want to lose precious time searching for hotels .
end question
start question
Can food from Indian restaurants in America be found in India ?
Kadhai chicken and Jalfrezi is normally on the menu in most decent Indian restaurants ( In North India ) but I can not say the same for Madras chicken . Source : I live in Delhi
OK after a couple of days of hunting I 've found three places where I get a Wi-Fi signal and can buy a coffee or a beer , but only one had a sign and with the others I 'm not sure whether the signal is from the place or a coincidental open one nearby ... " Bar Kafe Real Madrid " on Rruga Studenti right near Shesi Demokracia , the central traffic circle of the city . They only serve drinks . They are open until about 1am . Only middle aged men seem to come here . Oddly nobody ever comes to take my order if I do n't go to the trouble of going inside and asking . There are electrical sockets near some inside tables . Bar Kafe Lira on Rruga Studenti at the corner of Rruga Arkitekt Sinani . I do n't think this place has food either but espresso is just 50 cents ! I do n't think the Wi-Fi is theirs as it only worked from the outside tables to the far left as you 're facing the street . Street cafe outside the " Zona Plus " building on the pedestrian street Rruga Kolë Idromeno ( I ca n't see a name of the place anywhere including my receipt ! ) This place had no Internet sign but there 's a fast connection without password called " INTELLINET " . The connection turned bad after I was there for a while , strong signal but little data transfer . In short , it seems to me that war-walking is the best bet . Despite the warnings I received in neighbouring countries , Albania feels very safe at least here in Shkodër so I stopped worrying about wandering around with my netbook out ( - : All of these places required no password . <URL>
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
This may not be exactly what you are looking for , but it will be better than just dry toilet paper . <URL> are sold in most grocery/sundries stores in the baby section . They can even be purchased in small packages which are made to fit in a purse and some of them are specifically sold as being flushable ( i.e. it 's ok to just throw them in the toilet afterwards ) . I usually take some of these along for hiking/camping trips when I 'm not sure how long I 'll have to go without a shower .
Cows are considered holy in Hindu religion , not India as a whole per se . North/East/West India are primarily Hindu-majority regions and thus you 're highly unlikely to find any beef , except perhaps at dodgy places in Muslim-dominated parts of those towns . Dodgy places because in those three parts of India cow slaughter is frowned upon and you do n't find organised slaughterhouses for cows . While Southern India has its own conservative Hindu population which do not eat beef , it also has proportionally higher numbers of Christians and Muslims - historically because Christianity was brought in by sea traders . Beef is not as uncommon in South India and you will certainly find it some restaurant menu ( typically ones that are not under a Hindu owner 's management ) . This is generally in upscale restaurants or hotels bars with a significant foreign visitor clientèle . You 'll never find beef products in chain restaurants such as McDonald 's , Pizza Hut , Domino 's etc. ( For instance , there 's no Big Mac burger in Indian McDonald 's restaurants ; instead , they have a ' <URL> ' which is about the same size but with chicken patties . ) Chain restaurants across India are primarily owned by a handful of companies based in North India . This was somewhat of <URL> . You might come across signs in restaurants to this day which state ' Beef and beef products not sold here ' . Since the availablity of beef is so restricted , I ca n't think of how you 'd end up eating it in a public place . Nevertheless , it is n't illegal and if you do acquire beef then you can cook it in your own home too .
Cypress Mountain has announced that it is opening November 14 , 2012 , though it is only at higher elevations with artificial snow , and not suitable for beginners . ( In 2011 , opening day was <URL> . ) Grouse Mountain , reachable by TransLink bus 232 or 236 , opens <URL> . Whistler , reachable by private coach , opens [ November 17 , 2012 ] .
As noted before , Ireland is not part of the UK nor of Schengen . Though , Northern Ireland is part of the UK , but again , the UK is also not part of Schengen . Ireland and the UK have their own Common Travel Area , in which there are no permanent border controls between the two countries . As an Indian citizen , you may be eligible for the <URL> . Under this scheme , if you have a UK visa , you may use it to travel from the UK to Ireland , and if you have an Irish visa , you may use it to travel from Ireland to the UK . Anyone who is eligible and applies for one of these visas will generally receive a " BIVS " endorsement on their visa automatically , unless they are ineligible ( e.g. they were previously removed from one of the two countries ) . If you do not get a BIVS endorsement , then you must also apply for a visa for the other country if you wish to travel to it . The main thing to remember with the British Irish Visa Scheme is that you must always enter the Common Travel Area via the country which issued the visa . Only then can you travel to the other country . For instance , if you have an Irish visa , then on each journey you must always clear immigration in Ireland before going to the UK , and if you have a UK visa you must always clear immigration in the UK before going to Ireland . But you may exit the Common Travel Area via either country . You can apply for an Irish visa by following the <URL> , or you can <URL> .
I spent some months in Southern India last year and compared with some other parts of the world it was indeed a bit harder to meet other travellers . I have n't been to the North of the country yet but I assume it is similar . Some of the best places to meet people is in your dorm room or the hostel kitchen . India does n't really have that many hostels or a hostel culture like other countries do . I mostly stayed in cheap hotels where I did not meet anybody . If you go with the hotels recommended in Lonely Planet or other guide books you have higher chances to meet people . But most places do n't have ( nice ) common areas to hang out . There are some neighbourhoods that are full of tourists , there are bars and restaurants so if you are good at chatting up people in a pub , you can try that . I find it actually harder to meet people in a tourist area than in a remote area with very few tourists . If there is only one other westerner in town , you talk to him/her almost automatically . When I think back to last year , here 's how I met most people : While on a bus or a train you have time to look/walk around and talk to other travellers , chances are you are getting of at the same stop and can share a cab or public transport to the hotel . At major sightseeing spots there almost always other westerners , you can start asking them about the place and what 's the coolest thing they have seen there . In restaurants ask people about their food and where they 've been so far . If you do any organized tours , you will spend some hours with other tourists on a bus/boat and most times that leads at least to a dinner in the evening . The places you are going to are very touristy and there will be many other westerners , so it depends a little bit on yourself how many people you will meet . In general I would say it it much easier to meet people when in a foreign country compared to home . Compared with many other countries many locals also speak good English and many are interested in talking to you , but keep in mind that often in the end they want to sell you something . Keep an open kind , you can always walk away later . If you are female take extra care about what bus you are getting on .
There is really no limit set on the amount of cash you can carry into the country . The only difference is whether or not you need to declare it when you cross the border which according to <URL> is 10000 Euro . The only thing is that when you carry amounts of that size or larger Customs and various other agencies start to get curious on where this money came from . Additional Info as per @Annoyed 's comment From the site of the <URL> Export of foreign exchange/currency notes : Indian residents going abroad are allowed to take with them foreign currency upto any amount so long as the same has been purchased from an authorized foreign exchange dealer as per norms . Any person resident out of India is allowed to take out of India unspent foreign currency not exceeding the amount brought by him on his arrival in India provided that in the case of foreign currency notes exceeding US$ 5,000 / - or its equivalent or foreign exchange in the form of currency notes , bank notes or traveller 's cheques exceeding US$ 10,000 / - or its equivalent , the same was declared to the Customs authorities in Currency Declaration Form ( CDF ) at the time of his arrival in India . So long story short . Still no limitation as long as the source can be proven legitimate .
Lipulekh Pass is the only place in Uttarakhand , India where the border crossing is allowed into China . But this is allowed only for the pilgrims that are part of The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra , a pilgrimage to Mount Kailash and Lake Mansarovar . It is very unlikely that other people ( other than pilgrims ) are allowed in this route .
The use of satellite phones violates the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , and the <URL> . The <URL> because of several recent act of terrorism . Use of satellite phones for personal and commercial use is prohibited in the country . Only security agencies and defense forces can use it legally . To use any sort of satellite phone , permission has to be taken from the Department of Telecommunications ( DoT ) . Please check out this <URL> also .
Wikipedia has a page on <URL> , and claims : Service charges are included with the bill , and tipping is uncommon However , their link is broken and I suspect it might be wrong . All other resources I can find online indicate that you should , and how much . <URL> 10 % in restaurants and taxis . $ .50 - .75 per bag to porters <URL> : In Paraguay , restaurants that do not automatically add gratuity ( it will say if they do at the bottom of your menu ) then a tip of 10 percent is enough . I found that my servers delighted in the other - than - monetary - tips I gave them . Paperback books , picture books ( postcards ) and compliments to their managers were high on their list . In taxis no tips are necessary . The standard of $ .50 - $ .75 per bag to handlers was the norm . <URL> : 10 % should be left for the waiters . Small change should be given to porters and taxi drivers . So perhaps the culture has changed , but all signs are indicating that yes , you should tip , and especially if the restaurant indicates as such .
Many pillows in hotels are decorative . You certainly do n't need to keep them all there . Generally you just put them to the side / on a chair / on the floor until you make the bed in the morning . It may also be easier if you tend to sleep in the fetal position , rather than stretched out , but it 's up to you to find the position that suits you best .
No . <URL> with an overview of the situation in each country . <URL> ( though it does look somewhat incomplete , at least for South America ) . Overall , each country has , or does n't have , its own network . There is currently no railway crossing any border anywhere between Mexico and Columbia , at least . According to <URL> , in South America , the only international connections are between Bolivia , Argentina and Brazil ( neither of the two links between Bolivia and the Chilean coast , to <URL> or <URL> , carry passengers , and the Arica line is currently closed ) . If you want to go from Mexico to Panama , railways wo n't help you much . Guatemala has none . <URL> has only a few commuter trains that would save you at most a few miles . <URL> has a few goods trains and commuter trains but there too I do n't think any are helpful to cross the country . Nicaragua is another trainless gap . <URL> currently only has a commuter line around San José . In <URL> the only railway is the one that runs parallel to the Canal . From Colombia to the South , you 'll need to go via Peru or Venezuela . In <URL> , the existing tracks would n't help you much , and anyway the only passenger train is in the Bogotá region . <URL> has a few trains but there are still large gaps if you want to reach Brazil , and then the only trains in the north of Brazil are on the coast . In <URL> , finally , there are trains that will take you part of the way between Ecuador and Bolivia , but with several large gaps . You can go from [ Cusco to Puno ] ( <URL> to Puno ) on the shore of Lake Titicaca , then a ferry to Guaqui in Bolivia ( if it 's currently running -- I ca n't find reliable information ) and there a train to La Paz . <URL> has several passenger networks , but here too there are gaps between these networks , and there are no tracks connecting the eastern and western network . The western network runs to <URL> on the Argentinean border . The <URL> no longer runs to La Quiaca , so you 'll need a combination of buses and optionally a tourist line , the <URL> , in Salta , to reach the main network at Tucuman .
The National Park Service has an arrangement where only a single company is granted an exclusive franchise to travel to or take guests to Alcatraz . Therefore , if you want to go to Alcatraz , there is only one company you can travel with , and private boats are forbidden . <URL> : Tickets for the Ferry to Alcatraz are available at the Alcatraz Cruises website , but they sell out fast so buy in advance . There are a few other websites when you search , but I ca n't vouch for any of them . What you could do to confirm is to call Alcatraz Cruises Box office : +1 415 981-7625 , or email them ( info@alcatrazcruises.com ) . However , even when I was in San Francisco last year , tickets were sold out online and it was n't possible to buy them in person on the day . However , that was Fleet Week , so your mileage may vary on a different week . I 'd drop them a line and see what your options are .
Technically no , practically speaking yes . Many of the coins look the same as US coins at a first glance , so careless clerks may accept them . I am in the US and often find myself with Canadian pennies and quarters which are very similar to the US counterparts . Having all the new coins in the US in recent years makes it even harder for people to tell the difference . Generally , vending machines will not accept them . It 's probably technically illegal to pass them off as US currency though , it might be classifiable as counterfeiting or fraud , but it happens all the time , intentional or not . EDIT : To summarize discussion in comments ... There may be stores near the border that officially accept CAD . That would be completely legitimate . I live in a border state but have never seen any . In all fairness I live 200 miles from the border but I do go near the border several times a year . I also have never specifically looked . It is probably limited to tourist locations . In reference to careless clerks , using CAD for an entire transaction is unlikely to work . 4 CAD quarters would be way less likely to work than 3 USD and 1 CAD . I 'm still skeptical on the vending machine front . I 've tried it without success and stopped trying , but maybe there are vending machines that would accept them . A whole discussion on how they work would probably be off-topic , but I think it has something to do with whether they detect a coin based on size or electrical resistance .
Unlike India , the UK ( and the European Union as whole ) has no hard and fast rule on the number of electronic items you may carry with you . What 's allowed is the following : Taking personal effects that you need for the duration of your trip across the border , especially if you are not a resident . Importing things that are worth up to GBP 390 tax and duty-free ( except a few things like alcohol and tobacco for which there are special rules ) . Importing much anything , provided you declare the goods as appropriate ( except fresh foodstuff , forbidden drugs or weapons , etc. ) . In practice , having two used laptops with you as a businessman is a non-issue . Also , for really expensive professional equipment , there are procedures ( e.g. the ATA carnet ) to provide guarantees that you are not going to import it illegally . What matters here however is the purpose ( temporary import ) , not the value or number of items per se . By contrast , carrying 3-4 identical laptops could raise concern ( e.g. that you do not really intend to take them back with you but will sell them or even give them away , which is not allowed if the total value is over the threshold ) . Similarly , if you were a resident that just went shopping abroad , even a single brand new laptop worth more than the threshold would have to be taxed . And note that the rules imply that any item being used permanently in the EU must have been declared and/or taxed at some point ( when it was imported , when it was purchased or perhaps as part of a move ) . It does n't matter whether you had only one item when crossing the border or were not detected at that moment , if you own a laptop whose serial number identifies as originating abroad and you ca n't prove you imported it properly , <URL> .
It very much depends on what you mean by . For the purpose of this answer I will assume you meant engine damage linked to combustible type , rather than other possibly infrastructure-related issues . <URL> seems to have driven quite a few kilometres in South America , and can thus provide some useful hands-on experience . Probably worth a reading . Understanding Octane Ratings <URL> A higher-octane fuel is therefore capable of withstanding higher compressions than a lower-octane . Compression is an intrinsic phase of the correct operation of an internal combustion engine . Compression results in an increase of temperature , and can therefore cause low-octane fuel to ignite . However fuel ignition is a precisely-timed operation , in that the ignition should be commanded by the spark plug only , when the piston reaches a precise point in its stroke . <URL> can be harmful to the engine . Mexico and USA Use Comparable Octane Ratings <URL> ( ) , which means that the octane values you read on Mexican filling stations will be comparable to those back home . <URL> : 87 and 92 . Hence pick the rating that most closely resembles the one you normally use in the US and you should be safe . Comparing Octane Ratings In case you were to drive in countries that use an octane rating different than ( usually this would be Research Octane Number ) , you could use <URL> from wikipedia , which states that : 87 is & sime ; 90/91/92 92 is & sime ; 95/96/97 / 98 Guatemala and Costa Rica , for example , seem indeed to use ratings .
Similar to what Tom mentions , I concur that one answer does n't fit all . But there are many factors ( unfortunately at this point I do n't have much sources for them ) which can be considered , As you mentioned , European and US airports do not operate at night time hours , but I do n't see this as a problem . For instance , DEL to FRA is covered by two direct flights , i.e. Lufthansa 761 and Air India 121 . Lufthansa leaves late at night whereas Air India leaves in the afternoon . So this problem seems like it can be easily avoided by morning flights which can land on airports in Europe in the afternoon . Hegemony could be a factor and to be quite honest , I see some evidence of it as well . Almost all flights from NRT ( Tokyo , Japan ) to most airports in the US are at perfectly good morning timings . BUT , here 's a reason which compels me the most . India has busy airports with heavy domestic traffic . In comparison to airports in US and Europe ( which either have more runways or have multiple airports in one city ) we have relatively lesser number of runways . If you were to visit the airport in the morning in Delhi , you would see clear evidence of this . So to prevent overcrowding of the runways in Delhi , most international flights tend to leave at night . As I showed you an example earlier , there are some ( albeit a much lesser number ) in the day as well .
<URL> and <URL> are both dishes with great variety , available with meat as well as seafood . Then there 's <URL> and <URL> , various <URL> , <URL> , vegetarian sushi variants , <URL> ... that 's all the most common ones , I think .
end question
start question
Should I use a lockable suitcase in India ?
I used to tie the zips of my backpack together with my hair , thinking that if notice the loose hair being broken my luggage would have been tampered with . On one occasion the hair , binding one zipper was broken , so I went to customs to express that I suspect somebody went through my stuff . There was nothing wrong with my luggage , but the custom officer also told me that in case something was found in my luggage , I would still be a prime suspect even after I reported it . So having a lock might not be waterproof against tampering . The answer by a very knowledgeable travel.se contributor might provide a better alternative then a locked suitcase , that is <URL> .
Risk of contracting malaria is higher in nearby countries than in Thailand . Look at this map from <URL> : Risky areas are clearly regions bordering neighbouring countries . <URL> , malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water . When you 're in Bangkok next to Chao Phraya river or on beach somewhere else , these conditions are unlikely to be satisfied . What you need to check though is when are you travelling to Thailand . There has been <URL> and you need to check whether you 're travelling to an affected area . Flooded areas will have conditions conducive for spread of the kind of mosquito that transmits malaria . If you 're really concerned , you can always you can take antimalarials with you as well as <URL> .
Euros are your best bet . The North Korean won is not convertible , and all facilities for tourists price in and accept euros . Koryo Tours , the largest operator of DPRK tours , <URL> : Currency The official exchange currency in DPRK is now Euros ( USD were taken out of circulation in 2003 but can still be used though we advise you bring Euros ) . It is possible to exchange other currencies ( such as Pounds , Yen , Renminbi , HK Dollars ) in the hotel but be aware that the rate will not be in your favour , better to change the money before entering the DPRK . We do not recommend taking in travellers cheques as they are difficult to cash . Economic reforms at the end of 2002 mean that the DPRK Won is now valued at roughly 165 won to 1 Euro . It may be possible to get hold of real DPRK money in the hotel but the best currency to use when buying goods remains the Euro .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
In my opinion Airbnb is nothing but a short-let provider . Yes people do rent out their spare rooms , and thus welcome you in their house . But they do so in exchange for money , very much like a hotel , or a bed-and-breakfast , would do . In that sense I do n't think tipping is necessary . If you want to show appreciation to an excellent host , the best way to do so is to bring a gift . Once again , this is not mandatory . Now , <URL> ( " why would they ? " , you might ask ) . However I did find an <URL> stating that you should n't tip your host : Bonus Tip : Should I tip my Airbnb host ? This question that has cropped up repeatedly since we published this original post . The short answer is no , you should not tip your Airbnb host . Tipping is a way of showing appreciation for good service , but Airbnb hosts do n't see what they 're doing as a service as such -- rather , they 're sharing their home with you as an equal . You and they co-exist in the same space ; they do not ' serve ' you in the same way that hotel staff might do . As such , there is no need to tip them . If you want to show your appreciation , a small gift such as a box of chocolates or even just a note would be more appropriate . <URL> seems to share this opinion : Accommodations Leaving a tip for your Airbnb or HomeAway host is not necessary , and may in fact counter the communal spirit of home-sharing . Instead leave the hosts a gift to thank them for the stay , a nice bottle of wine or even fresh flowers .
You can even get an IDP from AAA via Mail ! The application form is at <URL> I do n't know if they would mail it to Spain , but if you have someone in the US to go to them with the filled form and all the requirements ( passport photos and copy of drivers license ) he will get the IDP and can express mail it to you ! If not , your best chance is to just call the AAA . While you usually wo n't get any trouble without it , if something happens and you do n't have an IDP you are in trouble . Insurance companies are happy for any reason to save money . The police will also take a closer look after an accident .
To be somewhat of a nitpick , there are two types of bounces . The more common type is when a visitor arrives who does not need a visa ( e.g. , Canadian , American ) or already holds a visa . I wrote a very detailed description of this in an article which starts with ... Sometimes people arrive in the UK and do not perform well in their landing interview ; some people lie , some plan to abuse the system , others exhibit strange behaviour , some appear to be incoherent . And others do not have a convincing reason to be in the UK , for example some people visit too often and other people appear to be a potential overstayer . A percentage of these visitors get ' bounced ' ( i.e. , turned around , denied entry , refused entry , sent home ) . This most frequently happens to Americans , Canadians , Austrailians , and New Zealanders . Even though these nationalities do not generally require visitor visas in advance , they are required to have a convincing reason to visit the UK and to exhibit that they are not a potential overstayer . What happens when somebody gets bounced ? Clearly many situations are too hopelessly complex to even attempt explanation in an article like this ; but we can take a look at some common features . Things begin with the Immigration Officer ( IO ) , who may have observed the person acting strangely ( or stressed ) in the queue , or who may not be satisifed with the response to one of his questions ( for example lying or intending to break our laws ) ; or worse , the person is flagged up on the computer . At that point the IO will remove the person from the rest of the traffic so that other travellers can be processed . This is called ' being detained ' . The first level of detention is a segregated area in the arrivals hall . The person detained may be escorted to the luggage collection area to collect their luggage and to consign this to UKBA for inspection . The complete article is here ... <URL> The other type of bounce is when someone is transiting the UK and does not have the requisite DATV visa or fails to qualify for the concession . These are not very common because the Immigration Act 2000 stipulates fines for the airline and as a result the airlines will apply lots of diligence before take off . In the usual case , the person will not be allowed to board the flight . The Office of National Statistics produces a report that indicates the OVERALL chance of a bounce is 1 in 3,000 , and I think the bulk of those are of the first kind . If you subscribe to their publications you will get an email notification when new statistics are available . Our laws mandate that the decision to admit or bounce lies solely upon the Immigration Officer who conducts the landing interview with the agreement of the duty CIO . I have never seen a case where a CIO has overruled an IO 's decision , but the law allows for it to happen . You would be surprised at how many are American women coming over to see a guy they met on the net . It 's fine to do that , but incredibly they lie about it and get caught in a lie . If an IO catches you in a lie , you are out of here . So what goes through an IO 's mind when they smell a bounce ? What are they thinking ? What signs are they looking for ? Fortunately , the Home Office Research Unit has published two studies on exactly this topic . Do n't ask me for the links because I make hard copies and save them on my hard drive , and the Home Office site gets reorganized at the drop of a hat anyway . Any link I posted would be rotted following the next election . Basically the IO will suspect single women travelling alone , young men with lots of technical gear , people with lots of cash , people presenting brand new passports who have recently renewed their passport ( you 'll understand why ) , people with no peripatetic history , people who are stressed or acting nervous , and the list goes on . Business men and women , for example , get bounced frequently because they do not have a work permit . Once you get bounced , you 'll have your biometrics on file plus your passport will be recorded ( changing passports does not help ) . And whether you like it or not , your biometrics will be sent to the USA . So to answer the question : Yes , reports have been published on how the IO reaches a decision ; and yes , statistics are available . Posting their links in SO invites quick rot . Having said that , you can use this link to get started . <URL>
The use of satellite phones violates the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , and the <URL> . The <URL> because of several recent act of terrorism . Use of satellite phones for personal and commercial use is prohibited in the country . Only security agencies and defense forces can use it legally . To use any sort of satellite phone , permission has to be taken from the Department of Telecommunications ( DoT ) . Please check out this <URL> also .
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
I would n't bet on a mosquito net being available in any low cost options . As for the mosquitoes , it really depends on the season and the city you are travelling to . Some cities/towns just naturally do n't have a lot of mosquitoes in any of the seasons . Since one ca n't be sure of the guarantee of the availability of a mosquito net ( and of those that are available , most are useless since just a small tiny hole in the net is sufficient to ruin your sleep . Indian mosquitoes are really tiny ( and sting like hell ! ) compared to the average mosquitoes in US homes ) , allow me to list a few almost sure shot ways of sleeping mosquito free . Your options may change if a child is involved in your travel . : If you do n't have an overly sensitive bronchial system , you could burn a Mosquito coil/incense during the night . When I was there , one coil ( which lasts about 6 hours ) cost like one rupee . And it is available in most mom 'n pop stores down the road . There is a very effective repellent ointment called Odomos . Very cheap and easily available in almost any pharmacy . Nah , you do n't need a doctors prescription for this . Once when stuck in an extremely remote place , the village folks gathered some dried leaves ( Neem ? ) and fumed the rooms , so that works too . There is also an option of mosquito repellent machines . They are inexpensive too ( less than 1 USD ) , but I would buy one if I was staying put in one place for over 2 weeks . I would be very skeptical of a reservation guy in some cheap hotel guaranteeing a ' very good mosquito net ' . Also , another option is , you can buy one and travel with it . They are not overly expensive . Just discard/donate when leaving . I think only in extreme cases will none of these three options be available in India .
You will need to speak with the Embassy or Consulate handling your visa application , as technically the visa is only 60 days . The 30 day extension is granted afterwards and is at the discretion of the Immigration Officer you speak with in Thailand . While the extension is usually easy to get , it is not guaranteed . Also your visa would allow you only 60 days in country and if the air ticket says 90 days , the airline is not supposed to allow you to board the flight . While you may hear from folks that say they got around these rules , they are in effect and could be enforced without leeway .
Take two suitcases . You will ( probably ) get charged extra for the overweight bag , and if it 's too overweight they wo n't accept it at all . And you will pay again on the return . Assuming you are going on vacation , you will most likely buy something and need a way to carry it home . yes ? One overweight , stuffed to capacity case wo n't work . Note that a completely empty case is often a problem too - it 's so light it does n't go through the baggage system well and can get blown off carts when outside .
Do n't pack anything . You 'll find much cheaper , and probably better , plug adapters all over India . Expect to pay Rs 15-30 for simple ones that just accommodate US-style plugs , and Rs 40-50 for full universal ones . You can find them at any general store/convenience store in major cities and tourist locations , but might get a better selection at electrician 's shops .
In other words : is there a policy that a document used in a train booking must also be acceptable for entry and exit from Russia ? No , there is no written policy for that . The only thing you should be aware of is the conductor during the board check validates your document and ticket . The document number and your names in it must be the same as in your ticket . So , you must provide them your ID-card , and , as far as I know , it does n't looks like a passport . This can be a problem in general , as the conductors simply can be unfamiliar with such document formats . This can cause the delay in boarding and even the denial for the trip ( as you said that you do not speak Russian , they will try to find an English speaker ) . From other side , the Sapsan 's are frequently used by foreigners , and for this exactly train you really not in a danger . But I still do advice for you to get the passport with you , for the safety ( it much more safer to bring it with you rather than leave it in a hotel ) . Passport check are rare in general , but on railway stations and subway they still can be met . In case if you have no passport with you , police can provide you to the police station for a further checks , and they can leave you there for hours . This is not the situation I want to be in . As for the difference between domestic and international trains - I think that you really should use the passport there , as the conductors during the boarding are checking the visas for all the passengers , and there is a huge probability of denial for such trip if you have used not a passport ( even if you have it with you ) - they simply will be over-insure themselves . Also , be aware of that the <URL> may not accept your Visa/MasterCard payment card if they are issued not in Russia . So , you have to find another site for ticket purchasing . For example , this can be used : <URL> but personally I have n't used any of such sites for myself . Edit : Kazakhstan is a member of <URL> , so you can use your ID as it is ЗЗ - Foreign document ( passport , identity card , etc. ) issued to citizens of the CIS But I suggest you to use it only for domestic trains , as I stated before .
Rossio / Chiado area are both very good options . And so is near Parque Eduardo VII though I have some comments here : If it 's near the Rotund ( Marquês ) , it 's practicaly downtown , it 's perfectly walkable . It 's no longer than 10 min for Bairro Alto . You have the begining of Avenida da Liberdade right there and right after starts Rossio . You can find many ( good ) restaurants along the way . This is a very important and beautiful Avenue . If it 's in the upper part of PE VII , than you can add an extra 10 min to arrive to Bairro Alto or anywhere else downtown . It 's , of course , walkable as well , but a bit more . It depends on your likes/dislikes . Regarding subway : depending on where you stay near PEXVII you have several choices for the station : Marques , Parque or S. Sebastiao . Subway closes around 1AM .
Golkonda Fort If you 're interested in looking at a fort , then I can suggest you <URL> . It is almost 11 Km from city center , but the distance will of course depend on the area , you 're staying in . The fort had a vault which stored world famous <URL> and <URL> diamonds once . The fort itself is an impressive structure and quite huge , giving you a lot of opportunities to explore around , photograph the place and around . The fort overlooks the city , so you will get vantage poitns for having a look at the city . Hussain Sagar Lake The man made <URL> has a lot of structures and attractions around it . Most notably being the Buddha statue in the middle of the lake . You can enjoy a clear evening around the lake , with sunset presenting beautiful scene . Apart from these , you can check the route and attractions for some heritage walks inside the city , which cover monuments inside the city . The official state tourism department website lists 4 routes . You can check <URL> , to explore more about the route and attractions .
Whenever I used to visit Montreal I 'd try to hit as many of the following as possible : The Old Port of Montreal St. Catherines street Bell Centre/new forum . Plus the old forum , it 's a lot of hockey history , and my favourite restaurant is right next door ( indeed the only St. Hubert 's I 'll go to ) Olympic Stadium , although it was more when they had a baseball team . Westmount , if you want to see some history and see how the rich folks live in Montreal . Mount Royal , has a great view of the city . Montreal casino and the Laurentians , but that 's not really in town . Really with few exceptions you ca n't really go wrong with anywhere in Montreal . It 's got a multitude of things to check out that you ca n't say about most other cities in North America . And the the restaurant and night life ? Top notch .
Kosovo : Based on the list <URL> from the Kosovo Ministry of Foreign Affairs , you do indeed need a visa as an Indian citizen . Based on <URL> , it seems you can arrange to mail your passport to one of the visa issuing locations . Based on the <URL> page , there is no requirement to show up in person to submit the visa request . Further , one of those locations is in Istanbul . Additionally , based on the QA website linked , and the <URL> section of the Kosovo MOFA , it seems holders of multi-entry Schengen visas do not need a special visa to enter Kosovo . However , it is unclear from the documentation if that visa is valid for the full 90 days , or for only 15 days ( <URL> ) . If you take a look at a map of Kosovo , you will see that it only borders Serbia to the North . While not recognized by Serbia , Kosovo is recognized by over 100 nations and has permanent membership in several major global institutions . I suggest <URL> . However , if you plan to stay away from the northern part of Kosovo , there seems to be no reason why you would need a Serbian visa . The information in that post is echoed/backed-up by <URL> . Further , <URL> that Serbian border guards might deny entry into Serbia if they see a stamp from Kosovo . Turkey : For transiting , as long as you do not leave the airport terminal , you should not have any need for a Turkish visa . This is common practice is most countries . Also , see <URL> . Based on <URL> , if you wish to visit Turkey as an Indian citizen you do indeed need a visa . Much like Kosovo , there is a special provision that will fast-track you for an e-Visa if you already have a Schengen visa .
First , make sure you are allowed to leave the airport with your passport/visa . Visa on arrival is available for many countries , but costs US$ 28 for 30 days . But that 's only certain countries , other ones are more complicated . <URL> is limited , but suggests the following sites : The Museum of Islamic Art , Doha Souq Waqif : the traditional old marketplace of Qatar . Has many good restaurants , especially at night time . Also sells many national products - bargaining is recommended . The Pearl : a man-made island connected to Doha by a bridge . You can find a big variety of restaurants and shops , mainly in the high range . Villaggio Mall : a spectacular Venetian style shopping mall with a canal and gondolas as well . A huge variety of shops from casual to luxury . Mathaf : The arab museum of modern art Katara : Cultural village which is home to many international and Arab restaurants , a beautiful beach , and holds many cultural events . Definitely a place to see . Aqua park : Aquatic Funfair . Personally I 'd see maybe one thing , do it properly , and then go hunt out strange foods and experiences . Middle Eastern cuisine is everywhere , and in many forms -- kebabs , breads , hummus , the list goes on . Do n't be afraid to venture into the Souqs looking for a meal ; it will be a unique experience in an authentic setting , and although some of the places you see may look rundown , that 's just the area in general , and the food will be probably be quite good . Be advised that many of the restaurants in the Souqs ( as well as the shops ) shut down during the afternoon hours . If you are in a funny kind of mood , you can try a McArabia -- McDonald 's Middle Eastern sandwich available only in the region . -- <URL> Another thing that I did in Dubai , and apparently they offer in Qatar as well is dune-bashing - riding around in big Landcruisers across the desert - it was AMAZING fun ! However , after my suggestion of it to a relative went bad - do n't do it if you get at all carsick ;)
I did something similar in late 2012 . I used Airbnb , there are plenty of landlords offering long term stay and it 's significantly cheaper than hotels . It also allows you to stay in the neighbourhood you want to find an apartment in . Try to find a location near a tube stop so you can go to job interview better . East London , like Bethnal Green , has very good rates and it 's easy to reach other parts of town .
end question
start question
Is 1hr 25mins long enough to go through international layover processes in the USA ?
It depends on a number of factors , but I 'd say that the odds of you making this connection is very low . 85 minutes just is n't realistic for such a connection in most cases at SFO . UA862 from HKG hits SFO right on peak hour . In the hour before it lands there are at least 5 other flights arriving at the same terminal , and feeding into the same immigration area - all of them widebody aircraft generally carrying 300 + people each . If you are entering the US using the Visa Waiver Program , and if you have entered the US on the same passport in the past ~ 8 years , then you can use the APC kiosks instead of the normal immigration lines - but even that could be a 20-30 minute wait at that time of day . If you have to line up in the visitor line , then it could be anywhere from 10 minutes ( if your flight happens to land first of all of the other flights , which is extremely unlikely as it 's scheduled to land last ! ) up to over an hour . Your bags will likely not be an issue - by the time you get through immigration they will most likely already be ready . Presuming no issues , collecting your bags , going through immigration , and dropping off your bags again should take no more than about 5-10 minutes , then another 5 minutes to get to security in the domestic terminal . Security in the domestic terminal will depend on the day of the week , but at that time of day , for someone without TSA PreCheck and without ' priority ' , will probably take somewhere between 20-30 minutes , although could be more or less . And then finally , United Airlines requires you to be at the gate 15 minutes before departure . If you are not there at that time , they can ( and will ) off-load you and give your seat to someone else - especially on flights like SFO-IAD where there is normally a long standby list . So your 85 minutes is really only 70 minutes . I wo n't say that this connection is impossible - if the stars all happen to line up perfectly then it 's doable . But odds are you 're not going to make it . If that happens , United will put you on a later flight - but keep in mind that could be many , many hours later . There SFO-IAD flights generally run very full , so there may not be seats available until much later in the day , or even the next day .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
45 minutes is fairly tight , but probably doable if you 're by yourself and coming from an EU country . I had a 1.5 hour stopover coming from the US and made it in sufficient time that 45 minutes would have been manageable , barely , with my wife and two children . You do n't have to check/recheck bags or anything like that I do n't believe ( at least from the US you do n't - I do n't know if a Schengen area country would change that ) . Passport lines were n't long at all when we traveled through , on a relatively busy weekend day mid-day . One thing to note : if your second flight is Germanwings ( Lufthansa 's budget airline ) , or even some Lufthansa operated smaller flights , it may be a bus ride to the airplane ; many departures in Munich are accessed via bus ( and some inbound , I believe , though not mine from the US ) . That could add a bit of time .
There is absolutely no reason to need to pretend to be Christian while visiting the US . The US does n't have an official religion and is a very diverse nation where people travel often . It is also a very large nation , and unfortunately some people do commit crimes against people for their religion/lack of religion . This is like any other diverse nation . There 's no issue with being a secular teenager in America , unless you actively argue with those who have different beliefs than yours . ( And if you do actively argue , you do n't typically have threats of violence or anything ; its just the people of the majority belief may not want to be friends with you ) . In the United States in <URL> , a nation of 300 + million people had 1376 hate crimes with a religious bias ; the majority being anti-Jewish ( 70 % ) , anti-Islamic ( 9.3 % ) . Only 0.7 % were anti-atheism/agnostic . Also , while I could n't find data that broke down by victim-group by type of crime ( so this also includes hate crimes committed against other races , sexual orientations ) , a large majority of the hate crimes are vandalism/property-destruction/intimidation ( 63 % ) and adding in simple assault ( assault without intent of injury ) and other property crimes you cover ( ~ 90 % ) of hate crimes . The other 10 % is mostly aggravated assault with the addition of about 17 ( 0.2 % ) that were murders or rapes ; and many of these are possibly based on racial or sexual orientation motivation . Note the number of <URL> is similar ( 1621 religion hate crimes ) , despite having 1/5th the population of the US . When meeting strangers it is best not to deliberately insult/mock/convert them from their own religious/political/other beliefs -- this is regardless of where you are traveling . People often get upset when their beliefs are mocked , but again this turning into assault or worse is extremely rare . However , if your waitress says " God Bless " or something and you mock her for believing in an imaginary being in the sky ( rather than just ignore it ) , I would n't be surprised if you get worse service . Also , note only about ~ 20 % of Americans actually go to church/synogogue/mosque every week , though ~ 40 % will report <URL> . While politicians do pay lip service to God/Christianity in US politics more than in some other nations ( e.g. , European nations ) , its mostly playing politics . When <URL> about 75 % of Americans self-identify as Christian ( 25 % Catholic , 16 % Baptist , 8 % Methodist , ... ) , about 5 % are Jewish or Buddhist or Muslim or other religion , 15 % reply no religion , and 5 % refuse to answer .
Airlines tend to charge full fare for last minute bookings , rather than discounting it to try and fill one more seat . The stereotypical last minute booking is from a business person , who has to be there and is flying on someone else 's dime , hence does n't mind paying whatever is asked . So there is no real motivation to discount the fares . The number of people like yourself who might be looking for a cheap last minute escape are a very small minority . Usually about the only thing that gets discounted at the last minute is upgrades , as airlines may try to raise a bit of last minute cash if their first class is empty and there are n't that many eligible elite flyers on the flight . All that said , there is nothing wrong with giving it a shot , as there are exceptions to every rule of thumb . Just do n't get your hopes up .
There is a document that allows you to enter the US whenever you want ( contingent on inspection and admission by a US border agent each time ) ... and it 's the US visa . Some can be valid for as long as 10 years and allow you to enter the country many times . Under US law , length of stay is an entirely separate issue . Unlike what you seem to believe , you would not typically get a " 90-day visa " . The visa can have much shorter or much longer validity than the time you will be allowed to stay in the US . However , you can not easily get a document that would allow you to stay " however long you want " . That determination will be made at the border but if you do more than one or two long trips in a row , you are going to raise suspicion that you are actually living in the US . For repetitive multi-month stays , I think you would need to seek an immigrant visa and resident status . Same thing if you cross the border many times and end up staying in North America for a long time . For those of you that do n't need a visa for short visits ( e.g. citizens from visa-waiver countries ) , renewing the ESTA every two years is the least of your problem . It 's relatively cheap and easy . It 's not being denied entry if you are spending so much time in the US without proper resident status you should be concerned about . Note that you would be granted 90 days of stay in the US on the first entry and <URL> so you would need to come back to Europe after three months . Once again , the length of stay is the most pressing issue , not renewing the visa or authorization nor leaving and entering the country repeatedly .
Easy . For starters , there 's a bus ( do n't take it ) from Venuezuela via Lima and Santiago to Buenos Aires that I was told about while there , takes a week . But gives you an idea of the max time you might spend on buses , given you 're doing a bit of tracking around . Lima to Arequipa and then Cusco can be done in 1-4 days depending on what stops you want to do . I recommend a side trip to Colca Canyon near Arequipa , go find the Condors . Inca Trail and Machu Picchu are obviously done together , you could allow a week for acclimatisation and the trail , including some time in Cusco . 8 hours by bus to Lake Titicaca ( Puno ) . You do n't need more than a day or two at max here . Most travellers just do n't like it that much , and some feel the reed islands are a scam , but if you 're like me and dreamed of seeing the lake , you can and will still enjoy it . 5 hours by bus to La Paz . 2-3 days here - things like the Death Road , exploring the city and more . Overnight bus to Uyuni , and then a salt flats tour . Worth noting that the ' best ' option is to carry on through to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile , but some do go in a sort of loop back to Tupiza , from memory . If you did go to San Pedro , it 's then 10 hours by bus to Salta in Argentina and another 20 to Buenos Aires . Heck , you could even go down to Santiago and Mendoza ( wine country !!! ) and then across to Buenos Aires . See how your time is going and go with the flow . I 've not been to Bonito and the falls , although I 'd ask why not Iguazu Falls ? However , the main thing - do n't overplan it . Give yourself 6 weeks from Lima to Buenos Aires , and pick the things that are absolute musts . Then let other travellers fill in the gaps with suggestions . You may find yourself in Nazca , seeing the Nazca Lines , going to the jungle in Bolivia , wine country in Argentina , or even down the coast from Buenos Aires ( 20 hours ) to the wildlife area around Puerto Madryn ( whales !! ) . I spent 4 months tracking around several of these countries , but a friend I traelled with for a bit went from Santiago and Mendoza , up to Iquique , across to La Paz , Lake Titicaca , Cusco + Machu Picchu ( train not trail though ) , Arequipa and Colca Canyon , Nazca and Lima in 3 weeks , without rushing . Yes it 's a lot of bussing , but you get used to it , and some of the buses in Peru , Chile and Argentina are surprisingly luxurious for a few extra dollars ( think beds ! ) . Look for full-cama/cama-suite buses . I did n't finish all my posts on South America , but <URL> has quite a few posts on some of the places you are talking about , which may be of interest for timeframes - I tend to describe the transportation quite a bit too .
Your best source of information on this is the airline , who would n't sell you the ticket if they thought you could n't make the connection . But some extra information to reassure you : you do not have to change terminals you may not have to go through customs at all - for some flights you can stay airside and go through a much simpler process you may or may not have to re-clear security , but the longest security line I have ever waited in at YYZ was 30 minutes your bags will be checked through so you do n't need to wait to get those If you stay airside with no need to clear customs or security , and your first flight is on time , you will probably spend 90 minutes sitting at the gate wondering if you should go shopping in the terminal . And even if you need 30 min for security , 30 min for customs ( both estimates are probably double or triple what you really need ) and your flight is 30 min late , you 'll still make it . ( I 've never changed planes in YYZ . But I have landed there from international flights , and left from there for international flights , many many times . )
It depends on a number of factors , but I 'd say that the odds of you making this connection is very low . 85 minutes just is n't realistic for such a connection in most cases at SFO . UA862 from HKG hits SFO right on peak hour . In the hour before it lands there are at least 5 other flights arriving at the same terminal , and feeding into the same immigration area - all of them widebody aircraft generally carrying 300 + people each . If you are entering the US using the Visa Waiver Program , and if you have entered the US on the same passport in the past ~ 8 years , then you can use the APC kiosks instead of the normal immigration lines - but even that could be a 20-30 minute wait at that time of day . If you have to line up in the visitor line , then it could be anywhere from 10 minutes ( if your flight happens to land first of all of the other flights , which is extremely unlikely as it 's scheduled to land last ! ) up to over an hour . Your bags will likely not be an issue - by the time you get through immigration they will most likely already be ready . Presuming no issues , collecting your bags , going through immigration , and dropping off your bags again should take no more than about 5-10 minutes , then another 5 minutes to get to security in the domestic terminal . Security in the domestic terminal will depend on the day of the week , but at that time of day , for someone without TSA PreCheck and without ' priority ' , will probably take somewhere between 20-30 minutes , although could be more or less . And then finally , United Airlines requires you to be at the gate 15 minutes before departure . If you are not there at that time , they can ( and will ) off-load you and give your seat to someone else - especially on flights like SFO-IAD where there is normally a long standby list . So your 85 minutes is really only 70 minutes . I wo n't say that this connection is impossible - if the stars all happen to line up perfectly then it 's doable . But odds are you 're not going to make it . If that happens , United will put you on a later flight - but keep in mind that could be many , many hours later . There SFO-IAD flights generally run very full , so there may not be seats available until much later in the day , or even the next day .
I would say it is likely possible but it is fairly short . As you say you will need to leave the secure area of the airport , collect your luggage and go through luggage drop off , passport control and security . Waiting for your luggage should not take too much time , but 10 minutes is the least to expect . Most of the time non of the lines on the way in will be long , but three times 10 minutes will eat up most of your time . And it is not unlikely there are more delays when things go wrong . Add the walking times , and you are almost out of time without any delays . EasyJet can be late , they do not promise to get you there on the minute , just to get you there . With the later flight out of Schiphol , a delay of a few hours will not be a problem , but with the early flight a 30 minute delay can be too much . I would go for the later flight , 6 hours in Schiphol is not too bad . If it is more than 6 hours you might consider going out of the airport if your incomming flight is on time . I guess KLM city hopper will not allow you to change to a later flight without paying costs if the EasyJet flight is late . If the tickets are cheap you could buy a ticket for both the early and a later flight .
As vclaw said you can use OpenStreetMap Data to find postboxes . An easy way to achieve this would be to use the Overpass API to download a GPX file and to add this to you GPSr . I prepared a sample query for Vienna and postboxes <URL> . As you can see , you can export the data in different formats , one of them is GPX . Change the coordinates for other cities or the whole EU and maybe try to add <URL> if you like .
You ca n't really count on Harbor Masters knowing English although <URL> mandates at the very least a <URL> for all people responsible for communicating to ships at sea or ports . In addition to this I have found <URL> and <URL> , which seem to suggest that at least some proficiency in the English language is required for all crews operating at sea .
If Finnair gave you an itinerary using those two flights , then they feel it is a legal , doable connection . It seems short , but that late at night there may not be much traffic so connections might be easier to do . If you are putting the two flights together yourself , then personally I would allow more time . In both cases , if your Hong Kong flight is delayed you maybe stuck in Helsinki until they can find you space on a later LHR flight .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
The Hansaring station is about 10 minutes ' walk from the conference building . ( The KVB planner counts 14min , which is highly pessimistic , the distance is only 700m . ) From that station , line S13 ( see the <URL> ) gets you to the airport station in 17min ; you can see the times on the <URL> . The S13 trains call at Hansaring at :18 , :38 and :58 . For a 17:50 flight inside the EU , arriving at 17:15 would be cutting it close , so I 'd plan on taking the 16:38 train ( arriving at the airport at 16:55 ) , meaning you should be outside the building at about 16:25 ( allow a couple of minutes to buy a ticket ( $ 2.50 ) , I do n't think you can buy the ticket in advance ) . I do n't know what the traffic is at around 5pm in Cologne , but even with a clear way a taxi is n't going save a lot of time . The <URL> states about 15 minutes to get to the center , to which you need to add some time for crossing the Rhine . Google 's driving directions quote 23min , so in light traffic ( but can you assume that ? I do n't know ) you can leave at about 16:45 tops .
There is an official " minimum connecting time " for each airport . For international airports , there are usually separate " minimum connecting times " specified for domestic to domestic , domestic to international , international to domestic , and international to international . At larger airports there may even be longer minimum connecting times when you are changing airlines . Believe it or not , the data is not readily available online . Here are some places to find an official minimum connecting time , sorted in order from most authoritative to least authoritative : The official source is the IATA , which publishes the Airline Coding Directory , which costs hundreds of dollars . A much cheaper way to get the same data is to get the <URL> . Since minimum connecting times do n't change very often , I recommend just buying one copy of an outdated OAG Pocket Flight Guide on ebay for a couple of bucks . Call any airline involved in your itinerary . Tell them you would like to know the minimum connecting time for the airport in question . They 'll know exactly what you 're talking about and look it up for you . Airlines sometimes publish minimum connecting times on their websites or in their timetables , usually only useful when you are connecting on the same airline . But if you are connecting on the same airline , you do n't have to worry about this , because they will not book you on a connection which is shorter than the minimum connecting time . Remember that minimum connecting times are only estimates . Your first flight might be late . US Immigration may be overloaded . The airport train may break down . The security check in for the second flight may be really long . Due to all the steps involved , international to domestic transfers are always terrible and should be avoided if at all possible . You are literally better off transferring through a third country that has good international - > international connections ( Vancouver , Amsterdam , and London Heathrow Terminal 5 are all great for international to international ) if that allows you to enter the US at your final destination . So for example if you 're travelling from Europe to Detroit , you 're WAY better off changing planes in Amsterdam than at JFK . If you 're travelling from Seoul to San Diego , you 're WAY better off changing in Vancouver than SFO or LAX . Etc. . Like everything , " IT DEPENDS , " so please feel free to ask a more specific question -- at the very least we need to know what airport you 're connecting at and which airlines you 're using .
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
I believe that the room you got is specifically a service of Turkish to encourage you to connect through Istanbul . There is a general question on this at <URL> . The answers there agree that in general , airlines do n't give you free hotel rooms just because you have a layover . That said , <URL> that will give you a free room : For connections over 6 hours , the Air Canada Stopover option includes one-night hotel accommodation and applicable taxes for one low price . The Canadian break comes at no additional airfare and your hotel is free with a Business Class , Premium Economy or Latitude and for a minimal fee with a Flex or Tango fare . So in this particular case you are ( once again ) lucky .
You have found the cheapest possible train ticket for that journey . Note that in order to get that price , you need to book well in advance . There are <URL> ( in Norwegian only ) . The cheapest available InterRail pass will <URL> ( or $ 129 if you 're under 26 ) . All passenger train services in Norway , except the Airport Express train , are operated by Norwegian State Railways ( NSB ) . There are , to my knowledge , no other ways of purchasing a Kristiansand - Trondheim train ticket .
end question
start question
How do I find out whether my flight has WiFi ?
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
<URL> gives code-share information for any flight . Looking up a flight number on that site gives a listing of its codesahres , among other flight information . For example , if you enter <URL> into the Flight Status box , click Search , and then scroll down to the " AC 8975 Flight Information " box , you see an entry saying : Unfortunately , the site only allows flights to be searched up to a few days ahead . Thus you wo n't be able to look for flights on the day you want to travel ( unless you 're planning a last-minute trip ) . But looking for the same flight number within a range of days ( yesterday , today , tomorrow , etc. , preferably including the day of the week on which you want to travel ) should give a sense of which airlines are likely to code-share the flight . Of course , this wo n't help if the flight you 're looking for is a new service that has n't yet begun , or if a particular airline pair is set to begin a code-share arrangement in the future . Notice that even if the same flight runs every day of the week , it does not necessarily have the same code-share partners every day . For example , looking up <URL> , we see that it lists only LH , not LX or CA . ( I imagine that a marketing airline might choose to share another carrier 's flight only if they have a flight of their own connecting to it on that particular day . ) As a slight alternative , you can choose " By Route " in the Flight Status search box and then enter departure and arrival airports to get a list of flights operating that route , including code-shares . Again , it does n't let you view flights more than ~ 3 days ahead , but you can see what airlines run that route by checking a few days around the current date .
The core differences between a phone app and a dedicated handheld gps are : battery life - the gps will have much longer battery life , but you have a charger for your phone so as long as you get enough sun you 'll be fine . What 's the weather like where you are heading ? ruggedness - gps devices are considerably stronger than an iPhone . Generally they are waterproof as well . Again , this may not be an issue , unless you fall in a river ... sensitivity - dedicated gps hardware is often much better at ascertaining your position . This may or may not be useful for you - in steep sided mountain ravines it can make all the difference . So if you do n't need any of those features , go with your phone . Personally I 'd always take the gps unit and my phone . And while I may log my track on the phone as well , my core nav service would be the gps , and my comms service would be the phone .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Compare the last page of the <URL> document to your map . It says : A new connection between the Domestic and International Terminals A new connection to help cyclists and pedestrians travel from Qantas Drive to the Domestic Terminal via Airport Drive . ( The orange dotted line shows the upgraded section ) . And your map is basically riding the orange dotted line .
Ok , first of all <URL> apart from the big chains which offer free Wifi as long as you consume something . Obviously you will have to make sure that these places are open and according to your taste . A cafe or pub might be more suitable than a sushi restaurant for long-term surfing . Second of all there is a <URL> with free wifi , and this list is maintained by an online magazine and much more detailed .
British Airways provide a <URL> , including all about Flight Connections . I 'd very much suggest you read through that . To tackle the main bits , assuming you have a single ticket covering both legs of your journey : You will not pass through UK customs You will not pass through UK immigration Your bags will be checked through to your final BA destination , so wo n't have to be collected or re-checked . ( Check the baggage tags given to you at checkin to ensure they have been tagged all the way through ) If your starting airport is able , they 'll give you your second boarding pass If not , you 'll have to go to the flight connections desk to collect it On arrival , you 'll follow the purple Flight Connections signs , and have your boarding pass + passport checked You will have to clear security , which is upstairs from flight connections , before you enter the main departures area of the terminal As long as there are no flight delays on your inbound , 2 hours will be fine . Queues to get your boarding pass checked before security tend not to be too bad , and while security can be shocking at times , we 're talking 30-45 minutes at bad times . One thing to check when you arrive is what bit of T5 you arrive in , and where you go from . T5 actually has three buildings , linked by an underground shuttle train , T5A ( the main bit ) , T5B and T5C . If you arrive at B or C gates , and depart again from B or C , you can clear flight connections and security there , which is generally a lot quieter . However , if either flight involves the main A gates , you 'll have to do security there , which can have delays at busy times . I 've managed to find a CC-BY photo from <URL> which shows what you 'd see at T5A : This is at the far end of the Purple Flight Connections signs in T5A . To your right are the desks , where you 'd go to collect your onward boarding pass if you did n't already have it . To the left is the UK border , which you 'd have got to if you 'd followed the yellow arrivals signs instead . Straight ahead is where they 'll check your passport and scan your onwarding boarding pass , then it 's up the escalators in the background to get to security . You need to get your boarding pass scanned by 35 minutes before departure ( conformance ) , so with 2 hours you 'll be fine !
Cell phones run on two different types of networks : GSM and CDMA . These network types themselves are subdivided into various bands ( e.g. GSM 850 MHz ) . Most recent phones will support a wide range of bands within one network type . GSM is predominant in most countries except the US , which uses both . To verify that your current phone will work in another country , you first need to find out which bands your phone works on . This will be listed on the technical specifications , which you may be able to find online ( if you ca n't , try calling your carrier ) . You 'll then need to check which bands are used by carriers in the country you 're going to . Wikipedia is good for this -- for example , <URL> . Data basically works the same way , although it is a bit more complicated . Basically , there are a number of different network technologies : HSDPA , HSUPA , HSPA , HSPA + , LTE ( I 'm not sure how complete this list is ) . The best way to do this is to check Wikipedia and work backwards ( if their network supports , say , 1800 MHz LTE , you 'll want to check if your phone does ) . In addition , if your phone has not been unlocked , you will be forced to keep using your current SIM . This seems to be what you 're planning to do , but I just want to emphasize that switching to a local SIM will not work , so if your carrier is willing to unlock your phone , do get that done . The other thing to make sure to do is check with your carrier is that you do have international roaming enabled . If not , your phone basically wo n't work outside of the US , and it 's a lot easier to get that enabled before you travel instead of trying to dial your carrier from abroad .
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
Hostels Find Another Guest to Replace You I was once in a similar situation : I booked a hostel for a week and had to leave after a few days . The hostel basically said they would refund the nights I did not spend there , if and only if they managed to find someone else to replace me . Luckily enough they did , and I got part of my money back . This is of course a risky move that is not guaranteed to work . However if the hostel has a lot of demand you could be lucky . Moreover , in case of a lengthy booking this could actually work : it might be hard to find someone requesting the exact room/bed you are forfeiting tomorrow . However if you booked for several weeks you are giving the hostel more time to find a new guest . Book Day-by-Day Another option could be to live it day by day , as others have mentioned in the comments below . I add it here for completeness ' sake , even though you explicitly mention it as one you would not consider . You could rent the room/bed on a daily basis , rather than for an extended period , hoping that the hostel you picked will never be fully booked . The main disadvantage here being that in the worst case scenario you might end up changing rooms , or even hostel , every night . I guess flexibility comes at a cost . One general piece of advice is to cancel the remaining nights within the allowed single-night delay ( 24h , or whatever ) to avoid having to pay for more nights than necessary . Airbnb Airbnb is a bit trickier since the money from the reservation is taken from you in advance , meaning that you already paid for the whole stay before arriving . Flexible and Moderate Policies If your potential host chose the <URL> for the reservation , then you can cancel it after arrival , and all nights 24 hours after the cancellation will be refunded at 100 % . The <URL> will instead refund the same nights at 50 % . Work it Out with your Host If that 's not the case , then you could try explaining your situation to your potential host before booking . You might end up working out an agreement . However note that such " agreements " might constitute a violation of the <URL> , since you are not allowed to conduct any form of private trade , after having established contact with the host via Airbnb 's website : User Conduct You understand and agree that [ ... ] you may not and you agree that you will not : [ ... ] use the Site , Application , Services or Collective Content to find a Host or Guest and then complete a booking of an Accommodation independent of the Site , Application or Services , in order to circumvent the obligation to pay any Service Fees related to Airbnb 's provision of the Services or for any other reasons ; Go Free What about <URL> ? Since the relationship between guest and host there is more personal , you could be open with your host and tell them straight away about your situation . Moreover , since no money is involved there everything should be more straightforward . Why Ca n't I Book Indefinitely ? I suspect that such open bookings might not be allowed for a number of reasons . For example , some hostels might have limits on the maximum reservation length . Check the top of <URL> : How long can I stay in a hostel ? Some hostels might have maximum stay restrictions and wo n't allow you to stay longer than a couple of weeks , since the idea of hostelling is that people are travelling across a country , and not staying in the same place all the time . However many others will not mind if you stay longer : at the end of the day you are still their customer ! As some hostels do n't take residents and locals , you will be required to prove that you are an international traveller by showing you ID or International passport
Yes , this has been standard procedure for banking in the US since about 2002 . Do n't worry ; just make sure your bank is FDIC accredited . Recent US laws require Social Security Numbers . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Assuming that you have the right to enter the Schengen area without any additional hassle , 10 hours is more than enough to go to the center , hang out there , even do some sightseeing in case you 've never been to Munich before , then return and safely catch your onward flight . There 's a direct <URL> connection to the airport that takes around 40-45 minutes from the center . Getting out of the airport is pretty fast , I assume it would take you around 15-20 minutes on a normal day . Obviously you should reserve more time for security checks and that sort of stuff for entering the airport later on , but 2 hours before your flight departure time is very much on the safe side , you usually need much less than that . If you 're 100 % cautious , it will still leave you more than 5 hours in central Munich . It 's a pretty city , I would recommend visiting in case it 's your first time and you have the necessary documents to enter the Schengen area .
Sure the risk is increased ( doubled , perhaps , but I imagine some connections are worse than others ) . Probably less risk if all your flights are with the same airline . If there 's a large variation in connection risk then two may be almost the same as one , statistically . The right decision depends on a bunch of factors . If ( say ) your first stop is in city X and you 're immediately getting into a rental car and driving 4 hours to city Y to make a presentation to a key customer then a delayed bag containing important stuff might be a real issue . If you arrive the night before and your bag does n't arrive until noon the next day , then you 're scuppered . Otherwise it might just be an inconvenience . Personally I would not ( probably could not ) take a 10 day multi-stop business trip with just a carry-on . Time is money when it 's for business and I would try to avoid hotel laundry more than once . If you 're just going to a fixed location such as a conference , have some free time , and the airport is reasonably near your hotel ( usually they 'll deliver a delayed bag ) , the risk is minimal . The risk of complete loss is pretty low , but you can decrease it by not putting anything that looks valuable in your bag . Most likely nobody wants to steal your clothes and reading material .
A number of airlines will append your title ( MR , MRS , etc ) to your first name when they issue your boarding passes , so it appears as SURNAME/FIRSTNAMEMR . It can appear this way on the gate agent 's terminal as well . I have not had any personal experience with Aegean Airline 's system , so can not say with 100 % certainty , but likely you are OK .
Ask at your hotel or hostel . I work in a hostel and we have about four sets of scales so guests can make sure their luggage wo n't be over the weight limit for their flight . I 'm sure we 're not unique in this regard .
The airline can move passengers around , even if they have chosen seats ( you 'll always see the disclaimer when you choose a seat online ) - whereas the online booking system wo n't necessarily know if it can do this . Also , the airline may have more up to date knowledge of cancellations at that stage . So the problem is n't the airline making it look like there are few remaining seats , but that the system wo n't let you move other passengers in order to fit a group in at short notice . When I make late bookings with the family , I just plan for the fact that we may all have to sit in different areas on the plane . Sometimes it can be sorted , but certainly not every time . That 's the hazard of late booking .
The <URL> allows you to search by aircraft type , though this feature is undocumented and not found in the <URL> . In the <URL> field , you would input followed by the aircraft types , indicated with a and using the <URL> . For example , suppose I wanted to fly from Miami to Los Angeles and was very insistent that the flights be on widebody aircraft . I could enter and would indeed get back an all-widebody itinerary -- though on the return , I 'd need to fly via Honolulu to do it : Without the type specification , the top result offers me a 737 connecting to a CRJ-900 and a return on a 757 . You can use for negation , too , to avoid regional jets or whichever manufacturer has aroused your ire recently . As far as I know , this is the only publicly accessible flight search engine that allows you to search by aircraft type . Unfortunately , however , it seems you can only search for aircraft on a segment-by-segment basis . I could not coax it to search so that it returns a routing where any one segment is on a particular aircraft ( if anyone has figured out the language , please suggest an edit ) . So for your A380 quest , you 'll need to do some legwork to identify major routes , which you can then plug back in to the ITA Multi-City search . You do n't indicate where in Indonesia you are headed , but Singapore is closer to Jakarta than Hong Kong , and the link JoErNanO indicated in another answer indicates A380 flights from Frankfurt and Paris to Singapore . So , I run a search requiring an A380 on the FRA-SIN or CDG-SIN segments , then let the engine fill in the other segments as may be available : and this returns a list of itineraries such as this : You could then repeat the exercise looking for flights via CDG-SIN , or via HKG , or perhaps aim for multiple A380 segments via DXB , but you would need to do your comparisons in a spreadsheet or some offline listing . -- There is of course a much simpler way to search for flights with designated connection points : The trouble here is that there are numerous CDG-SIN flights on other equipment , and the time it saves you in setting up the search is more than made up in the time it takes you to sift through the larger set of non-relevant results . -- Lastly , remember that ITA is just a search engine ; you 'll need to <URL> your desired flights .
If the flight number changes , such as in your example of 9W 119 and 9W 76 , they 're different flights ( in fact , nearly always different planes ) and you 'll have to disembark . Technically this is not a stopover at all , it 's a transfer or " layover " . If the flight number stays the same , you 've got a genuine stopover , and there 's no easy way to know what will happen . If the stop 's an hour or more , usually you will have to disembark while they clean the plane . Being allowed to choose to stay on board in these paranoid days seems to be getting more and more unusual , although it does still happen on some regional hopper routes where stops are short ( under an hour ) and only a few pax may get on or off at any given airport . Not being allowed off the plane at all is even more unusual , and is mostly limited to stopovers at military airports ( eg . Kwajalein on the Continental " Island Hopper " between Guam and Hawaii ) , domestic legs without <URL> rights feeding international flights , or those rare routes where they do a pure refueling ( technical ) stop . The last of these are increasingly rare in scheduled aviation , but do still happen on crappy charters flying ( eg . ) Scandinavia-Thailand on old overloaded planes that ca n't fly the full distance in one hop , or even on scheduled flights if there are last-minute equipment substitutions , really bad head winds etc. .
Recycle the card however you wish . Those things are ephemeral and ca n't be used anyway after you check out and the hotel probably buys them in bulk . And by " ca n't be used " , I mean that your checkout date is encoded onto the card key and the room locks will reject any attempt to open the door past an expired checkout date in the same manner that you ca n't open someone else 's door while you are at the hotel ( or your own effin door half the time while you are still checked in ) . That does not mean these keys ca n't be re-programmed with new room or checkout information . If you pay attention you will see the desk clerk shove the room key into a small box with a numeric key pad and hit a few keys et voilà you have a freshly programmed key ready to use ( again ) . However if the key is physically damaged and wo n't take the reprogramming then the next stop is for it the rubbish bin . Here is a random link that claims to explain how these keys work <URL> This of course raises the question of how easy it is to program a key in order to enter a room that is not yours . The funny thing is that while obvious , this question is actually moot as it is trivial to attack the lock itself with a simple electronic tool that exploits a fundamental design flaw in the how the locks themselves are programmed . Such a tool allows you to open all such locks with ease . I 'll leave tracking down that exploit to the interested reader Hotels are aware of this flaw , but it is going to be a long time before they roll out new door locks for every door that uses this style of pass key . Especially as a lot of hotels ca n't even seem to keep up with regular maintenance of normal in-room equipment .
According to <URL> , as a Business class customer you 'll have access to the following services : Comfortable , reclining seats <URL> <URL> More luggage allowance Access to lounges ( <URL> - AC Maple Leaf Lounge , Between gates 52 and 53 ) Priority check-in , baggage drop and boarding A toiletry/comfort kit for the flight More miles awarder on the flight
end question
start question
What tasks would I need to complete to prepare for any international trip , regardless of destination ?
Important : Items marked with must be done not only for your destination country , but also for any countries you are transiting through ! Legal ☐ Passport Have a passport that meets validilty requirements for the enitre trip . ☐ Visa -- <URL> ☐ Reciprocity Fee -- Check to see if you need to pay a reciprocity fee before you arrive . Note that you may have to pay a reciprocity fee for countries you are transiting through , if you have to go through immigration to get to your connecting flight . Also be aware that not all countries allow you to pay the reciprocity fee upon arrival . For example in <URL> ☐ Immunization -- <URL> ☐ Proof of Onward Travel -- If you do n't have residency/citizenship in the destination country , you must be prepared to show proof that you plan to leave the country , see <URL> . Note that your onward travel must occur before your visa expires ; <URL> ☐ Destination Address -- Write down the address and contact information of the place you are staying in the destination country in both the local language and your native language ( if different ) . Needed for immigration forms and taxi drivers . ☐ Children -- If a child is coming on the trip , unless both parents are also on the trip , bring a letter of permission from the absent parent , or a document proving custody by the traveling parent , a death certificate , etc. . Children may not need the same level of travel documentation as adults , or they may need the same ; investigate before planning the trip , especially if you are planning to take a newborn somewhere . Economic ☐ Available Payment Modes -- Check which payment modes are used , allowed or banned in your destination country . ☐ Credit/Debit Cards -- Notify the issuers of any credit/debit cards that you are taking with you and inform them of your itinerary ( countries and dates ) . ☐ Exchange Rate -- Look up the exchange rate of the destination country and come up with a " close enough " multiplier that you can easily calculate in your head when looking at local prices ( recommended : also write it down in your notebook ) . Safety ☐ Emergency Contact -- Contact a trusted friend or family member and share your itinerary . Write down his or her contact information in your notebook . ☐ Conditions on the Ground -- Hit expat/tourist forums and ask about areas to avoid in your destination country and city . Read the recommendations of your home country 's Foreign Office . <URL> ☐ Backup Documents -- Make a copy of your passport and relevant travel documents to keep separated from your original documents in case you get robbed or lose part of your luggage . Consider storing a copy of documents in the cloud so you always have access , or ensure that someone you trust as a copy they can send to you . ☐ Travel Insurance -- Purchase a travel insurance policy ( in case you get sick or have some other medical emergency during your trip ) . Note that this not the same as the " travel insurance " that airline carriers offer ( and is usually automatically included if you buy your ticket with a credit card ) which only refunds the cost of your ticket if you are unable to make your flight due to certain conditions . Cultural ☐ Language -- Write down the following words/phrases in your notebook and their translations in the language spoken in your destination country : Hello Goodbye Please Thank You Yes No Sorry ( apology ) Excuse me ( to get someone 's attention ) Where is the bathroom ? Do you speak ( your native language ) ? I 'm lost . Can you help me ? ☐ Tipping -- Research tipping etiquette in your destination country , see <URL> . ☐ Local Customs -- Hit expat/tourist forums and ask about cultural norms in your destination country , especially any that might cause you to inadvertently offend or be offended . <URL> Domestic ☐ Mail delivery -- Ask a friend , neighbour or family member to take care of excessive mail delivery if travelling for more than a couple of weeks . ☐ Banking -- Make preparations to be able to conduct transactions away from home , via phone or the internet .
The best I can recommend to you is to become a <URL> ( Deutscher Alpenverein , DAV ) or the <URL> ( ÖAV , all links in German ) . Membership costs varies depending on the " Sektion " you choose to become a member of ( you can choose freely and I know many people who choose one purely based on cost ) but is in the range of EUR50 and comes with <URL> ( through ASS for the DAV ) . @Relaxed suggests in <URL> that the ÖAV should be your first try , as they have a <URL> and <URL> as well as less restrictions in their terms and conditions . I second that advice ! What you get is Search and rescue costs up to $ 25,000 Repatriation with no upper cost limit Reimbursement of expenses due to hospitalisation after accidents occurring in the course of leisure activities or business as well as illness , up to $ 10,000 Third party liability insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 3,000,000 Legal expenses insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 35,000 <URL> You will want to look to the " A " column ( full member ) which you can sort . Currently it seems the " Alpenfreunde Euskirchen " are the cheapest at EUR40 annually . At first search I could not find a homepage for them so you might be happier at another , more internet-affine " Sektion " . In Austria the fees seem to be the same across sections and <URL> , currently you pay EUR61 per annum to be a full member , but they mention extra charges for members from abroad due to higher processing expenses .
You are an EU national living in the UK and want to sponsor your cousin for a short visit . Your cousin is an Indian national who is working in Oman . From Paragraph 24 of the rules , your cousin will need an entry clearance . In order to be successful , he will need to clear all of the points listed in Paragraph 41 of the rules . See <URL> Your cousin should apply on-line as a GENERAL VISITOR . Near the end of the application , he will answer some questions about making a biometrics appointment at a facility in Oman . Once the appointment is booked , he will see a page of information on what to do next . If you are lawfully in the UK and have the financial capacity along with an acceptable level of credibility , you can participate in the application process by offering to help . Because cousins do not have the degree of relationship needed to qualify as family , your cousin will be treated as a FRIEND , and they will need a pretty clear understanding of why you want to do this . For example , do you normally sponsor your cousins in the same way ? What 's special about this particular point in time ? With this background information , your cousin should start by opening an account and going through the application rigmarole at <URL>
Yes , the situation has greatly changed since 2001 :) Today you can get into Saint Petersburg in many ways by ferry : By St. Peterline company ferries : by <URL> Monday , Thursday , Saturday at 19:00 from Helsinki ( you 'll be at St-Petersburg at 09:30 AM next day ) by <URL> ( sorry , only link in Russian are available ) Wednesday , 09:00 AM from Stockholm without going through Tallinn 's port ( you 'll be at St. Petersburg at 11:30 AM next day ) Saturday , 19:00 from Stockholm with visiting the Tallinn Sunday , 18:00 from Tallinn ( you 'll be at St.Petersburg at 8:00 AM next day ) By AS Tallink Grupp company ferries ( with changes ) : From <URL> you can go to Stockholm , after that use first variant From <URL> you can go to Helsinki , after that use the first variant There is also <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ferries , if the schedule of two first variants is not applicable , but you 'll also need changes . I found the <URL> company , and they are serving many interesting routes in Baltic sea : You can get to Helsinki from <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , and after that use the first variant . You can directly get <URL> from Lübeck or Sassnitz in Germany , or from Ventspils in Latvia : Wednesday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Sassnitz at 05:00 AM at Thursday , departure at 07:15 AM , at Ventspils at Friday 00:00 AM / 04:00 AM , and finally at Saint-Petersburg at Saturday , 08:00 AM ) Saturday , 19:00 from Lübeck ( you 'll be at Ventspils ( no stopover in Sassnitz ) at Monday 22:00 AM / 00:00 AM , and at Saint-Petersburg at Tuesday , 08:00 AM ) Update : I strongly recommend minimizing travel time on Russian ships , mainly because of their service level . Ferries are old German ships , and servicemen are not as positive as on Finnish lines . Please do not think this relates to Saint Petersburg where service has highly improved in the last 10 years . Update 2 : Added information about another ferry from Germany via Latvia by Finnlines .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
Most airlines have a bit about this on their site - for example , on <URL> , for travel in the UK : Adults : Any photo ID which matches the passenger name in the booking . Infants and Children : Children under 16 years of age ( travelling with an adult ) on UK domestic flights can travel without photo identification . So no , they do n't need ID to travel in the UK , as long as they 're travelling with you .
I checked the website from the <URL> , ( <URL> ) , there is no vaccination needed for that . ( As far as I know , only children get vaccinated for that ) . Check that website , it has a ton of information on the vaccination subject . The vaccinations are not that great anyway ( in the way that they protect you entirely ) . Meningitis can be caused by a virus or a bacteria ( and a parasite or fungus ) and there are over a 100 bacteria/virus strains that can cause it , the vaccinations only protect for a small number of these .
Promoting comments to an answer ... Looking at the ever useful <URL> , there are three typical routes . One is via Turkey , Syria and Jordan . My understanding of the current situation in Syria is that this one is out . Next up is a direct ferry from Greece , but that is n't running currently . Finally there are suggestions that you can get a ferry from Cyprus on to Israel , I 'd suggest you try looking into that . If you wanted to get to Jordan avoiding Syria , then you 'd have to go through Iraq , which is n't any better ! I think you 'll have to consign yourself to not overlanding it via Turkey any time soon . Ferry in is your best bet . One other possible option is via Egypt . Friends in Egypt tell me that the situation in the country is much better now , however relations between Egypt and Israel are n't great ( to say the least ... ) . That 'd likely mean taking the <URL> and then onwards by land to the border ( and hope it 's open ) . Snag is , that ferry is reported to have issues at the moment too , as it normally stops in Syria on the way Looks like your only bet is the Cyprus ferry , assuming <URL> is telling the truth about it running at the moment ...
Evidence of adequate funds is usually : A bank account statement for the last few months ( usually 3 months ) showing a good amount of money to cover your stay . Another evidence in case of business trips would be a letter from your employer stating that the employer is covering the trip expenses . A job certificate showing your income can also work , I have submit it before and it was accepted to obtain visas for different countries . If you have an invitation letter to attend an event and it shows that expenses will be covered , this will also work . Anyway , in your case since you will obtain your visa upon arrival most likely you will not be asked . Keep a copy of your bank account statement just in case the immigration officer asked you to show the evidence . I also guess showing credit cards or cash will work too .
From Berlin , the closest non Schengen destination is the <URL> . The beeline distance is + - 500 kilometers and over the road its + - 600 kilometers . There are direct flights between Berlin and Kaliningrad . It is just one hour . Otherwise , there are a couple of places in non Schengen countries that you can reach in more or less 2h30 by plane : Sofia ( Bulgaria ) , Bucharest ( Romania ) , Belgrade ( Serbia ) and Zagreb ( Croatia ) . So as to find the most cost effective option , I would play a bit with <URL> or a similar tool . In 2 hours you can also reach Kiev ( Ukraine ) or Minsk ( Belarus ) from Berlin . However prices for direct flights to these destinations are much higher than for the other destinations mentioned . Depending on your citizenship , all these destinations may not be visa free . And a visa may not be obtained for free . Take that into account .
And we introduce Mark 's patent-pending method to surviving the hell that is NZ to London superhaul economy class travel : Prepare your entertainment . Sure , you will likely have movies on the plane . But I 've done several 10-13 hour trips with broken screens or no entertainment system - SINCE 2010 . Do n't bet on having it . Charge laptop batteries , iPads , iPods , Kindles , get a new book from the library or whatever keeps you happy . Clothing . It can get cold on a flight . Surprisingly cold . I layer it up - my trick is to always wear my jacket over my top going through security - it means I can just put wallet etc in my zip-up pockets , and simply remove my jacket in security , meaning no having to constantly remove stuff for the xray , especially in the multiple stopovers . Once onboard , I remove it and keep it under the chair in front of me ( I 'm not that tall ) or put it in the overhead compartment . BOOK your seat beforehand , if at all possible . It 's getting harder these days to secure the emergency exit row , but if possible , GET IT . Even if you ca n't , when you get to the airport , ask as nicely and politely as you can to every new staff member you see - at the checkin counter , at the gate , and finally on the plane . All three have worked for me at different times . As a failsafe , book it online beforehand if at all possible , and use <URL> to decide the best seat for your flight . I prefer at the back , it 's slightly bumpier , but away from screaming kids - they tend to locate them close to the bulkhead . Finally , in your decision , realise that if you 're flying over the ocean - there is NOTHING to see - so why have a window seat ? Get an aisle , it means you can get up an walk around any time you want . Just not the very back row - sometimes the seats do n't recline all the way , and you get a queue next to you waiting for the bathroom . Personally , I ca n't sleep on planes . I 've accepted this , and plan accordingly . I dislike sleeping tablets and the side effects , so I sleep well the night before ( or try to ) and then just accept I 'll be stuffed after the flight . However , from all the experience I 've had from others telling me , the eyemasks do wonders , those neck pillows that make you look like such the beginner traveller actually apparently are quite nice , and again , the seat makes a difference - it 's much harder in the middle of three seats to get any sleep . Aisle also means you can put your feet out a bit further , but beware of tramplers . Exit row mitigates this problem - more leg room than you 'll ever need ! Food and drink - never drink alcohol on a superhaul flight . Sure , it 's nice but you 're losing so much body water anyway due to the dry atmosphere that you need all the water you can drink . Ditch the alcohol and go for juice or water instead , and make use of the drinking fountains next to the bathroom/bulkhead - surprising how few people know about them . You 'll feel better during the flight , and look and feel fresher when you land . Drugs - sleeping tablets - some friends swear by them , as well as people like my brother claiming that the anti-jetlag pills completely freed him from the effects . I 'm dubious about the latter , not enough evidence for that yet , but the sleeping ones bother me - some chemically replicate the sleep state - ie , mind asleep , and body ' paralysed ' during that time , and have heard some terrifying stories about <URL> - something terrifying enough in the comfort of your own home , and not something I 'd want to experience at 36,000 ft ! I 'm not sure about the food losing its taste - could just be that airline food is pretty rubbish anyway ;) but perhaps it 's the lack of hydration as well , so water with the food may help . I do n't think anyone ever ' enjoys ' a 29 hour flight ( well of 3 flights ) from one side of the world to the other , but you can at least lessen the pain by enjoying some movies , attempting to sleep , and all else failing , make friends with the person next to you ;)
best way was round-trip buis ticket ( A11 ) , costs 65 hk dollars .
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
If you intend to stay in UK and Hungary more than a couple of days in each , you 'd need to buy a package for each country separately . The global services rates you cite are actually pretty competitive , if I compare with what I 'm charged for roaming in countries in Europe other than my own . I 'd just try to reduce my voice usage as much as possible , and look at a VoIP solution instead . Free Wi-Fi is not difficult to find in UK and Hungary ( obviously depending whether you spend your time in large cities or not ) . Apart from that , it 's best that you shop around yourself -- recommendation questions are actually off-topic for this site . Look at <URL> and check the available operators and conditions in each country . Check also <URL> for some more information . Skype charges $ 0.026 / minute for calling US numbers , and you can get a monthly subscription to the amount of 60 minutes for as little as $ 1.09 / month ( see <URL> ) . These prices are hard to beat . You can use <URL> ( using your Skype credit to access otherwise paid-for Wi-Fi networks ) . Granted , the Skype Wi-Fi rates are extortionate , but are per-minute rather than per-traffic , so they actually might work well enough depending on your use case . It will be certainly cheaper than $ 0.25 / MB , though .
If you wish to transit thru the Netherlands as an Iranian Citizen , you will generally need a transit visa . This is clearly stated on the <URL> website and is shown in this <URL> from the same as well . There are some exceptions <URL> to this rule even though the <URL> do not state them very clearly , one of these exceptions <URL> would be the Long Stay Type 'D ' visa that you hold for Ireland . The exception should be perfectly valid in your case and many sources verify this as well . Note , considering the case of using the two flights ( which I beleive would be on different reservations ) you can obviously do it , but if your luggage is not checked in thru and thru , you will have to collect and re-check in your luggage which would require you to pass thru border control and you will need a visa in order to do so ( a Proper Short Stay Schengen Visa ) . If you can have your luggage checked in thru , there should n't be much else to take care of beside the Ukraine side of things , the Netherlands should be alright .
With regards to Canada , you are fine . Italians do not need a visa and your passport is fine . For the layover in New York you will need an ESTA from the Americans . You will also need an " e-Passport " if yours was issued after 10/25/06 . See further here : <URL>
Kids that age are too large for car seats and probably do n't need booster seats . Their parent should bring : books , handheld video games , smartphones , headsets , crossword or similar puzzle books that they enjoy ( and plenty of pens/pencils/etc in case some get dropped or lost ) snacks like granola bars or carrot sticks that they like paper towels/wetwipes chewing gum for the descent a small camera for each child so they can document the heck out of the whole thing - their suitcase in their room just before it 's zipped shut , driving to the airport , the checkin line , etc etc - this makes it start to be fun long before it starts You can bring : earplugs in case the engine noise bothers them , You can also offer them to any nearby passengers who seem upset . wristbands that prevent motion sickness ( they may or may not be placebo , who cares as long as they help ) gravol or the like to help with motion sickness ( and also makes some children sleep ) ( my distinction is that parents should bring things that need to fit the child 's taste or preferences , or cost a lot , and you can bring small things that you pull out of your pocket to help when trouble arises . ) Toys are generally problematic . Anything with small pieces is out because losing a piece will cause more trouble than the toy prevented . Anything throwable is out . In advance , you can give the children a book about planes and airports , or a video , to reassure them about the process . A 6 year old should have no reason to be afraid of flying , but the cure for fear is knowledge , so provide it .
Special pants are a must . I 'd start looking at sites like <URL> to get an idea . One thing that I would very much suggest is if you have any avid ski enthusiast friends talk to them because they would give you pointers on what is good and where to get it . But a short list for what you need is : Warm socks Pants Warm boots . Ski Gloves Ski Jacket ( Simple warm or even down jacket wo n't do ) I am sure I am missing something on this list but this will be a good start .
You need a bit more information . Are you going with a tour or solo ? I went solo and I do n't really know any Russian aside form what I picked up while there . I stayed on the Europe side of the Urals , and bounced between hostels . It is definitely more difficult to go solo , but with some pedimiming and patience , it is easy enough . Contrary to a lot of stereotypes Russians are generally nice , helpful people . I ca n't tell you how many pairs of nit socks I bought from the babushkas on the streets . If you smile and point , you should be fine . It really depends on how experienced you are at traveling . I do , of course , always recommend studying up on the culture and language A BIT before you go . Know some words and carry a dictionary . The ' Where is ... ( bathroom/police/embassy ) ' and ' I want ... ( food/water/beer ) ' set of words is pretty much required where ever you go .
end question
start question
Are there overnight bus from Chiang Mai to Chiang Khong ?
There are no night buses that I am aware of . Green Bus has Chiang Mai to Chiang Khong routes ( stops in Chiang Rai on the way ) , but they are daytime schedules . Most bus companies try to avoid driving the road between Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai at night , as it is a winding mountain route with less than perfect drivers ( ie post drinking drivers ) .
<URL> shows the C12 route taking 57 minutes ( and 15 stops ) , traveling more directly west-east . <URL> also shows an alternative route , the S10 train to a connection with the C10 bus in Como , which takes about 2 hours . Its <URL> that shows the numerous stops and includes towns that document the 1-hour route ( such as Cima , Porlezza , Croce ) . The <URL> is in effect between 9 June to 11 September ; winter schedule begins on 12 September ( through 8 June ) . To interpret the abbreviations used on the schedule : Scol are those that run on school days ( scolastici ) , which include Saturdays . Fer6 means buses that run Monday-Saturday ( all six feriale or working days ) ; Fer5 are for buses that run Monday-Friday . Fest indicates Sunday and national holidays ( festivo ) . Gior is every day or daily ( giornaliero ) .
SNCF <URL> runs <URL> <URL> between Grenoble and Valence ; the trip takes a little over an hour and the trains run approximately hourly . There are also buses , but they go to Valence TGV far outside the city ; you then have to take another bus into the city . Due to the strike , there is <URL> . At the moment few of the trains are announced to be running but there will be substitution buses for some of the services continuing to Valence-Ville after Valence-TGV . So you can probably make your trip ( except if you were going to take one of the evening services ) , but allow for some delay . Grenoble and Valence are in the same région but in different département and have a train connection . In such cases , it 's rare to have non-SNCF buses . I do n't have authoritative knowledge of this region , but the <URL> does n't list any likely-looking bus lines , nor do any of the département-area sites for Isère and Drôme . While it 's possible that a combination of shorter-hop buses could get you from here to there , it 's likely to end up taking all day ( many of these buses may have no midday service , and they often would n't wait for connections ) -- even if a connection exists in theory , there 'd be a risk that you 'd have to hitch-hike some of the way ( which , incidentally , is a valid option if you are n't in a hurry ) . <URL> only mentions the train and the bus via Valence TGV ( granted , I do n't know how good their coverage of regional buses is ) . So take the train or the bustitution .
My parents live in Anuradhapura and I live in Kandy , and I make this trip up and down at least once a month . The earliest Intercity from A/pura to Kandy is at 4.30-5 AM from A/pura . Reaches Kandy at about 7.30 AM , depends on the traffic . The last bus departs at 7.30 PM , reaches Kandy at 9.30-10PM but you will not find any other buses in A6 road ( Kandy to Mahiyangana road which has many tourist hotels ) , Three-wheelers are available but expect to pay a slightly higher price . For A1 ( Kandy to Colombo ) , you will find a bus even at the mid-night . Kandy to A/pura buses are available every 30 mins from 6.30 AM to 6.45 PM . You can call +94252225257 ( A/pura bus depot ) and ask them if they have buses available . Also , there are 2 routes in between A/pura and Kandy . 42 and 43 . A/C buses are only available in 43 because the 42 is a little bumpy road near A/pura . Buses in 42 route , IMO , are very uncomfortable compared to 43 's .
The state run transport company , <URL> has very good well maintained a/c buses to Goa from Bangalore . You can check the availability and book tickets online from their website . Make sure to select service class as ' Premium ' to get a/c buses in your search results . Since Goa being a well known tourist place and April-June is summer vacation , it is advisable to book tickets in advance . Or plan your journey on week days .
There are several bus companies , both Turkish and Georgian , which run buses from Batumi to Istanbul ( all starting in Tbilisi to my knowledge ) . The offices in the Batumi bus station are all located next to one another , but there are also a couple more offices more centrally located ( for example , at the corner of Chavchavzade and Gogebashvili ) . Either way , tickets are easy to get . Most companies offer tickets for a few times a day . It 's also much cheaper to get the tickets in Georgia than to travel to Hopa or Trabzon and take a Turkish bus from there .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
The simple answer is , it depends ! Each airline , and even sometimes each airport , will have different rules about what is and is not allowed . As a general rule , most airlines will NOT automatically check your luggage through for an overnight connection . You will normally need collect your luggage when you land , and re-check it the following morning . This is normally a good thing as it allows you access to your luggage for your overnight stay . However this is not true for all airlines - some WILL check your luggage through , especially for short overnight stays ( eg , arrive 11:30 pm , depart 5:30 am ) . The only way to find out exactly what they are going to do is to ask the airline , and even then you might find that when you get to the airport they proceed to do something different anyway ! If you want access to your luggage at the stopover point then basically all airlines will honor such a request at check-in . This is called " short-checking " , and although not all airlines will do it in a general sense , they all should for an overnight layover . If you want them to keep your luggage overnight , then it may be a bit more of a struggle . Some airlines , and even some airports , have policies that they simply will not do this - so whilst you can ask , be ready for a refusal . The one time you may be able to talk them into doing this where they otherwise refuse is if you are not able to go through passport control at the connecting country ( eg , you do n't have a visa ) , in which case you will not be able collect your luggage - in this case they may be more willing to check it all the way through , however I would not bet on this always being successful .
There are some <URL> ( common but <URL> ) that the lower air pressure ( and humidity ) in a plane 's cabin increases the risk of thrombosis . Another factor is that buses usually have toilet breaks every couple of hours , which gives everyone an opportunity to stretch their legs - and people are more likely to make use of these opportunities than to do it regularly in a plane because there is more room and they 're reminded and encouraged by the bus stopping and lots of others getting off .
Yes , if you have an enhanced driver 's license , this should work . You have already noted in comments that your enhanced driver 's license allows you to cross into the US by land . And according to <URL> , a Canadian driver 's license is acceptable by TSA as ID for boarding flights at US airports . Flights between the continental US and Hawaii are ordinary domestic flights , so no further documentation is required beyond a TSA-acceptable ID .
The nearest airport , UYU , is a domestic airport ; you will need to connect at La Paz ( LPB ) . <URL> and <URL> offer UYU-LPB services . Arequipa , for its part , has limited international service , and you would need to connect on a LAN or TACA flight through Lima ( LIM ) .
The answer is yes : Take a look at the map on United 's site for <URL> .
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
There is at least one - the <URL> is located in the West stand of the 32,000-seat Stadium MK ! ( Home to the MKDONS ) Several of the room types feature views out over the pitch ( you 'd want the ones saying " With View " in the booking list ) , and the restaurant/bar has views out of the pitch . The only downside is that the executive rooms are generally unavailable on match days , as they 're used for hospitality , and someone on FT mentioned that not all of the fitness facilities are available on match days as apparently they get used by the teams ! The hotel is also only a short distance from <URL> , which is a must-visit for any crypto/spy/code-breaking / computer/history geek , and you can often get some stunningly good advanced-purchase deals at the hotel for weekend stays :)
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
There are definitely buses between Ooty and Coimbatore , but you may have to change in Mettupalayam . They also run through Coonor . Looking at my travelog , it took about three hour from Coimbatore to Mettupalayam which is relatively flat . But the part between Ooty and Mettupalayam is much slower but really nice . Also the bus station you arrive at in Coimbatore is not in the center , and it will take a while to get from there to the train station . I think if you take an early bus in Ooty you can make it in time for your train , but taking the toy train may take too much time . If you have enough time , take the toy train the day before and then the bus back to Ooty in the afternoon . The toy train was very busy when I was there earlier this year , you had to make reservations weeks in advanced . Just double-check at the bus station in Ooty .
The <URL> only give the percentage of trains that were no more than 10 minutes late . The Melbourne to Sydney night train is train 622 ( second green bar from the left ) . The on-time performance is pretty bad : only 60 % achieved the 10-minute objective . There does n't seem to be any official tracking of how late the late trains are . Google finds complaints about delays of an hour and more , but you ca n't conclude from the anecdotes how common that is . The <URL> guarantee connections ( for services run by the same company ) only if you allow a one hour buffer , which does n't speak highly of their expectations for on-time performance . A large proportion of the line is single-track , and there are n't many sidings , so if any of the ( mostly freight ) trains is delayed , this can have a significant impact . Watch out for <URL> on the date you 'll be traveling .
The short answer is no , as has been said . There are a few bus lines popping up . You can check them out at <URL> and <URL> . They typically take you between SF/LA and LA/LV and that 's about it .
There will be plenty of buses each day to Bodrum . You will find one , so long as they are n't sold out , although Sunday night is unlikely to be the busiest of travel times to Bodrum . Most will be direct , but there will be some which have another final destination . When you arrive in Istanbul , look around for bus company offices in the district you are staying in . * They are fairly ubiquitous so you are unlikely to have to travel far to find one . Moreover , they are usually clustered around one another , which makes time and price shopping easy . That being said , they usually all leave around the same times and charge similar prices , so it wo n't matter much which company you take , although some are better than others . When you buy your ticket , make sure you find out what time the service bus ( in Turkish , servis ) leaves from the office ( usually an hour or so before the scheduled departure time ) . The service buses will take you to the bus station or another staging point , where you will get on the actual bus . Do n't buy a ticket in Istanbul from a company without a service bus . Depending on the destination , there will be service buses to take you from the bus station to somewhere central once you arrive ( in some Turkish cities , there are no service buses , but this is an exception ) . Turkish buses are comfortable but they do stop every three hours or so , even in the middle of the night , so factor that into your sleep expectations . * If you stay in Taksim , walk down to Gümüşsuyu from Taksim Square to find the offices . If you stay in Sultanahmet , walk west towards Lâleli along Divanyolu . There are offices in Sultanahmet itself , but expect higher prices there .
end question
start question
Do intra-Schengen flights into Zurich deplane into the departures concourse ?
I remember transiting at Zurich Airport a couple of years ago ( both flights on one Swiss ticket ) and arriving airside , so I guess that means yes for you . <URL> It 's not super-clear but I read Arriving Schengen and non-Schengen passengers are handled in separate areas of the Airside Center and reach the Airport Center by different routes , with non-Schengen passengers first passing through immigration controls . as confirming the above . Finally <URL> is in agreement with that .
Given the <URL> and the previous experience my wife had past December coming back from Barcelona it is a no . The flights from Spain and especially from Barcelona are almost universally go through agriculture control at US customs ( at least the case in JFK and Newark ) specifically looking for Jamon . The only possible exception might be vacuum packed sliced Jamon but again from my wife 's experience with agriculture control in Newark I would say it may be a 50/50 proposition at best .
Yes , while not fully harmonised , it is a safe assumption for the countries you mentioned . It follows from a proposal to the EU members in 2007 ( resubmitted in 2011 ) ... PNR data is information provided by passengers during the reservation and booking of tickets and when checking in on flights , as well as collected by air carriers for their own commercial purposes . It contains several different types of information , such as travel dates , travel itinerary , ticket information , contact details , travel agent through which the flight was booked , means of payment used , seat number and baggage information . The data is stored in the airlines ' reservation and departure control databases . Many states access PNR data for the purpose of fighting serious crime and terrorism . PNR data has been used manually for almost 60 years by customs and law enforcement authorities around the world . Technological developments have made it possible to use PNR data more systematically for law enforcement purposes . Source : <URL> The current state of affairs is most of the member states have passed their national legislation and have either implemented the proposal or in an advanced test phase . Currently up to 16 EU countries have decided to collect PNR data , according to Timothy Kirkhope , a British Conservative MEP who steers the file through Parliament . But because there is no EU framework , he said , " airlines have no clarity on how to process the data , and passengers have no clear EU-wide rights to protect booking information such as credit card details , seat number and emergency contact " . Statistics from the Parliament show that most EU countries already have their own PNR systems in place . In 2013 , the European Commission spent $ 50 million to start domestic PNR collection in 14 member states . Source : <URL> The UK enacted the legislation in 2008 in the form of a Statutory Instrument : <URL> In 2010 , the European Commission issued a communication on the sharing of this information with non-member states : <URL> s Earlier this year , 16 July 2015 , the proposal was put to a vote and carried by a slight majority . The full EU framework and harmonisation by members will presumably be complete in 2016 . ... a Dutch national travelling on a Dutch passport via a German international airport to an Asian country be logged ? Having said all of that , we turn to your specific question . The Netherlands has an EU compliant PNR system in place and is still formally in a testing phase . Germany has not yet developed an EU compliant PNR , but uses the version they implemented before the proposal was made . So the answer to your question is still ' yes ' , but data originating in Germany is not kept in an EU compliant format . If yes , for how long is this information retained ? The main legislative instrument at EU level governing this field was the Data Retention Directive , which was adopted in November 2006 following the Madrid terrorist train bombings in 2004 and the public transport bombings in London in 2005 . These resulted in a text which gave room for different applications at national level and which did not guarantee a sufficient level of harmonisation . Source : <URL> does it make a difference if the automated ePassport gates are used rather than the human officers ? No difference , the border inspection process does not play a role in the harvesting of information . Per the proposal the information is collected at the booking and reservation stage .
You should be fine . <URL> : If you are importing or exporting monetary instruments equal to or greater than CAN$ 10,000 ( or the equivalent in a foreign currency ) , you must report the amount to the CBSA when you arrive or before you leave Canada . This applies to either cash or other monetary instruments . Even if you do want to bring in more cash than the CAN$ 10,000 limit , you are allowed to do so - <URL> .
Yes , flight departure times for normal passenger flights are always shown in official local time , which follows DST changes according to the local rules .
I called consulate of country B and talked with the visa officer . He told me since you are visiting country A for a conference that is your main destination even though you spend more time in B . He said the rules say : 1 . main destination 2 . if no , longest stay 3 . if no , entrance . He told me that he is reluctant to issue me a visa and asked me to contact country A 's consulate , if they do n't take the application he will review it . I called consulate of country A. First the operator told me to go to B then after telling her that I am going to A for business ( conference ) , she told me that I should apply at theirs ( A ) . Looks like the key thing here is the conference not where I spend most of my time .
Since each of these countries would unilaterally decide whether they recognize Schengen visas and under which conditions , I do n't think it 's possible to find an official list anywhere . I am marking this answer as " community wiki " so that we can come up with a list : Bulgaria , Romania , Croatia and Cyprus ( all EU members ) have rules modelled on those of the Schengen area and allow holders of some types of Schengen visas to visit the country , see <URL> , <URL> and previous questions on this site , e.g. . <URL> Official sources are hard to come by but Albania apparently allow holders of multiple-entry Schengen visa who have already used their visa at least once to visit one of the countries of the Schengen Area , see <URL> and <URL> . Turkey provides some concessions to those that normally need visas . If you normally need a visa for Turkey , and you hold a Schengen visa - you may be able to avail the new electronic " e-visa " system . The list of countries whose citizens can avail this exemption <URL> . <URL> , multiple-entry Schengen visa holders can visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for 7 days . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Macedonia for 15 days ( with some caveats ) . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Serbia for 90 days . <URL> confirms that information . <URL> and <URL> , Mexico offers a visa exemption for 180 days to those holding a valid visa issued by " Canada , Japan , USA , United Kingdom or a Schengen Member State " ( this may be further restricted by nationality ) . <URL>
This actually may not be an <URL> policy but an airline one . An article in <URL> suggests that not all airline allow frozen meats in carry-ons so you may need to check with the airline that they do . The same article also suggests possible packing tips for transporting the frozen meats as well . Personally I would suggest having your meat vacuum packed before freezing it .
Depends on the tea , check <URL> . Seems forbidden if the tea contains fruit or vegetable leaves or seeds , including citrus leaves or seeds . But otherwise okay for personal use . But you might want to double check .
Your originating airline will be the one that checks to make sure you are leaving Thailand before your entry permission ends . They may not let you board if you can not document that you are leaving Thailand within 30 days of your arrival . And the only true proof of this is a departing airline ticket to a neighboring or home country . Train tickets and bus tickets are not legal proof , but maybe accepted ( then again may not be ) by the agent . Thai Immigration rarely checks this aspect , but they do have the right to , and I have personally witnessed them asking people to prove such . So not having proof is a double crap shoot . Best bet is to buy an airline ticket to a neighboring country that leaves before your 30 days are up . Either a dirt cheap throw away airfare ( Air Asia has a sale going on right now ) or an expensive fully refundable airfare . Then you can leave your flight home as you originally planned . You can also apply for a tourist visa in advance , which would give you 60 days entry and possibility for a 30 day extension . While this still requires proof of exit , airlines tend to overlook the outbound rule when boarding ( but not 100 % guaranteed , as I had to talk my way on once with a Non-Imm visa for a longer stay ) . You have to weigh costs of the Visa vs cost for a cheap airfare .
TL ; DR : No , they do not serve sushi on planes . ( See footnote . ) To set the stage , I 've lived in Japan for several years , have traveled the length and breadth of the archipelago , and have flown <URL> on a wide selection of airlines ( JL , NH , SQ , OZ , MH , AY , QF , TK , SK , NW , TG ) , in both economy and business class -- and I 've never seen actual raw-fish-and-rice sushi on a plane , unless I brought it myself . First , on domestic flights in Japan , there is no food served at all in economy or business class , much less sushi . On JAL , a select few routes do offer simple meals in first class , but <URL> . You 're welcome to bring your own food on the plane though , including sushi , and even liquids are allowed on dom flights , although they may be scanned . Second , on international flights to Japan , the food will be prepared not in Japan , but at the catering service ( s ) at the other end , which prepare food for all flights at all airlines , not just Japan . Are they going to offer sushi ? No . Third , on international economy flights from Japan , you 've got Japanese catering firms that could offer sushi ... but do n't . Economy meals have to be cheap , reheatable and palatable to all , but as @jwenting states , sushi is expensive and perishable , and there are a lot of people -- yes , even people visiting Japan -- who dislike raw fish . That leaves only one option : business and first class flights from Japan , where ingredient cost is not such an issue and there are usually multiple choices of appetizer . But sushi is still not a great option , because raw fish has to be kept cool , but the rice turns into a hard , gluey mess if goes cold , an impossible equation in the confines of an airplane . In business class , I have occasionally seen cooked types of sushi ( grilled unagi eel , slices of futomaki rolls , etc ) , but I ca n't recall ever seeing raw fish on a plane . But rejoice ! If you 've got more cash to throw around than I do , you can still enjoy raw fish on a plane ... in First Class , since you simply ca n't do a proper Japanese kaiseki meal without sashimi . Here 's the sashimi course from Asiana on a NRT-ICN flight : ( courtesy <URL> ) And here 's a <URL> showcasing ANA 's kyo-kaiseki course , also incorporating raw fish ( well , slightly seared aburi , but close enough ) . JAL and Singapore Airlines offer kaiseki as well . But note that none of these offer sushi ( raw fish on rice ) , opting instead for sashimi ( just plain raw fish ) . This is both more accurate , since you would n't serve sushi as part of kaiseki , and does n't run into the aforementioned problem of trying to keep the fish cold and the rice warm simultaneously . Footnote : I 'm defining " sushi " as " raw fish on rice " here , which is narrower than the <URL> , but think of it this way : if someone offers you a sushi meal , and it has no raw fish , you 'd most likely feel a bit cheated , no ?
Daytime , there are two very good options : <URL> bus 615 is easy and affordable . The trip to central railway station costs 5 $ and takes some 35 mins . The bus runs every 10-20 minutes between 06:30 and 00:30 on weekdays ( Sat 07:00 -1:00 , Sun 06:05 -00:30 ) . ( From city to airport , first departure is 05:10 and last 22:45 . ) At the airport it leaves from T1 ( platform 2 ) stopping at T2 ( platform 21 ) too , and in city centre from platform 3 on <URL> . The fare covers transfer to other HSL services -- buses , trams , metro , <URL> ferry -- within 80 mins . Check <URL> or the <URL> for more info . The <URL> ( <URL> ) takes you a bit faster ( average time 30 mins according to the company ) from airport to central railway station . The fare is 6.30 $ , and it runs ( mostly ) every 20 minutes , between 05:45 and 01:10 daily . ( From city to airport between 05:00 and 24:00 ) . This bus leaves from T2 ( platform 10 ) and stops at T1 ( platform 1 ) ; in city centre , it leaves from <URL> , platform 30 , on the other side of the central railway station . The Finnair bus also provides free WiFi ( details provided on the information display on the bus ) , which can be handy for travelers . Late at night &amp; early in the morning ( i.e. , when 615 is not running ) , HSL bus <URL> is your friend . It runs every half hour mostly , with last departure from airport at 03:55 and from city at 03:10 ( Fri &amp; Sat nights 03:40 ) . But first departure is at 05:00 ( from city 04:10 ) , so essentially the whole night is covered , all week ! Night fare ( charged between 02:00 -04:30 ) is 7 $ . The 620 departs from the exact same platforms as 615 , and estimated travel time is 40-45 minutes . ( The 620 also has departures during daytime ; the main difference compared to 615 is slightly longer travel time . ) A taxi is always a convenient option , of course , but it 's far from cheap ( around 35-40 $ ) . There are some fixed rate / shared taxi services too that are slightly cheaper ( e.g. <URL> , " from 19.50 $ " ) . Edit : updated for 2015 . Note that slightly different 615 and 620 timetables may apply in the middle of the summer . Check the <URL> to make sure , as it always has up-to-date info on the HSL services . Rail connection starting 1 July 2015 The new <URL> opens this summer , bringing a rail connection between the airport and central Helsinki . It wo n't really be faster than the current buses , but it 's probably easier , more straightforward for the occasional visitor . As you can see in the schematic map below , you can take either I train or P train no matter which way you 're going . To optimise travel time ( save 5 minutes ) , choose I train from Helsinki and P train from airport . Both trains will run every 10 minutes in the daytime . Travel times : Helsinki city to airport : I train 27 minutes ; P train 32 minutes Airport to Helsinki city : P train 27 minutes ; I train 32 minutes ( NB : at least some bus of the existing bus lines will remain in operation and may be valid options even after the Ring Line opens . I 'll update this with more details later . )
That 's a wonderful time to visit England . I 've visited the area in April-May several years ago and did a similar trip to what you 're describing ( southern England , Wales and spent a week in London itself ) , and it was awesome . Note that this year you should n't be in London in July-September , unless you 're interested in Olympics . That means that people who want to visit England not for Olympics will probably go there earlier than usual , and you 'll have all the crowd you want to avoid right there with you . But do n't let it stop you , England is wonderful any time , especially late spring and early summer .
<URL> Is the best place to get information on motorcycle overlanding . Answer I can give you is : it depends where you live . It 's easiest to get the carnet in your own country so you 're usually restricted by what 's available there . I can only speak for the UK , where I was able to get a carnet insurance for ~ # 1,300 for a # 2,000 motorcycle ( but the UK is notoriously expensive for carnets ) , though upon the safe return of the motorbike and carnet to the home country , I got a refund of about # 700 of that . You 'll have to contact the carnet issuing companies in your country for a definitive answer .
Yes , it should work . Electricity supplies with nominal voltages of 220 , 230 or 240 volts are in practice the same . There are tolerances of about ± 10 % in the voltage ( to account for the voltage drop in transmission lines which depends on the load ) , so devices labeled with either of these voltages will actually be designed to function on anywhere between 200 and 260 volts , give or take .
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
Officially Qantas allow bookings up to 353 days in advance , although if you 're booking through a 3rd party that can sometimes be reduced down to 330 days which is more of an industry standard . The exact number of days ( or at least , your perception of it ! ) can also vary slightly depending on timezones - Sydney is 10 or 11 hours ahead of the UK , thus it can already be " tomorrow " in Sydney when it 's still " today " in the UK . In the case of Avios , it looks like they allow the full 353 days . Currently the Qantas Australia website is allowing me to view flights up to December 25 , 2013 . The BA/Avios website allows me to select days up until December 26 , but actually looking for the 26th shows no flights available on Qantas . Picking two typical routes ( SYD-BNE and SYD-LAX ) the availability appears to be exactly the same on both the Qantas and Avios websites for the 24th and the 25th of December , which matches what I 've seen before when comparing the two . As an aside , redeeming Avios points for most Qantas domestic flights is an excellent use of them - the redemption rates are far better than even Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the same flights !
On average airlines open flights for bookings around 330 days prior , so May dates may not yet be open depending on the airline and route . You can test route options by simply looking at earlier dates ( say March or April ) just to see if many more options show . While it is not a guarantee , it does give you a starting point .
Wow . . that 's a tough one . The official documents are online at the <URL> but ( naturally ) they 're all in Georgian and even Google Translate could n't help me find anything there of note . There 's an <URL> but they lack the detailed document search you need to find information this specific . Meanwhile , the US Department of State has this to say in their <URL> : They do n't mention knives at all but perhaps absence of evidence is evidence of absence in this case . Then there 's the completely unofficial , anecdotal accounts I 've turned up elsewhere on the web : Centurion , a hostile environment training provider , <URL> . ( To be taken with salt due to their business interests . ) This article in the <URL> also claims many students now carry knives to school due to an increase in bullying . ( Does n't mention if it 's legal . ) The author of <URL> , suggests Swiss Knives and Leathermans as good gifts for a host family . ( Might be stupid . ) These are about as far as you can get from an official source but they do paint the picture of a society either without strong concealed weapon laws or at least very poor enforcement . It may just be that my Google-Fu is weak today but I get the distinct feeling Georgia does n't have any knife laws to speak of . ( Oh but obviously do n't take them in your carry on ! )
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
end question
start question
Best location for car rental in to the Peak District coming from London ?
Chesterfield appears not to have much in the way of car rental agencies . That aside , here 's a comparison of various towns dotted outside the Peak District : Since it looks like a car rental agency can always be found within 10 minutes of walking or public transport from the train station , Derby looks to be the winner as it 's both easily reached by train and less than an hour 's drive from the centre of the Peak District . I 'm open to running numbers on other locations if suggested . These are just culled from scouting around the surrounds of the Peak District on Google Maps .
Generally speaking depending on the age of Children you are allowed to bring child safety seats on flights . <URL> . So if you 're allowed to carry and use the child seat on the flight just bring your own . Car Rental companies will provide a child seat ( s ) for you irrespective of whether it 's someone large as Hertz or someone smaller . EDIT Give kids ages the rules in the US which are in most cases similar to the EU you will need to have a <URL> , so if your seats are similar you more then likely be fine . As far as ISOFIX is concerned I am yet to encounter a seat that was ISOFIX only , so you should not have an issue using it in any car . One more note . We personally always opted for our own seat because one time that we had to rent our son could n't get comfortable in the seat for a somewhat prolonged journey .
If you do n't buy insurance through the rental car company , and have no coverage through travel insurance , credit cards , or your home auto insurance , then the only liability insurance you will have is the minimum coverage the rental car company <URL> in most states . The minimum liability insurance you must have , by law , in Texas is detailed <URL> , along with other helpful information about car insurance in the US : The current minimum liability limits are $ 30,000 for each injured person , up to a total of $ 60,000 per accident , and $ 25,000 for property damage per accident . This basic coverage is called 30/60/25 coverage . This describes liability insurance , which is mandatory insurance that covers you for damages you may cause to other people or property while driving . Note that this limit is very low . It is quite possible to do far more damage than this while driving , and you may be sued for the difference . Remember that medical costs in the US are expensive ; a car accident victim can easily run up a hospital bill far more than $ 30,000 . In the unfortunate event of a fatal accident or one that leads to serious long-term disability where you are found to be at-fault , you could incur significant liability . It is not uncommon for rental car companies , <URL> , to offer $ 1,000,000 in supplemental liability insurance . The rental car company , or a third-party , will offer to sell you supplemental liability insurance , which will increase these limits and allow you to better protect yourself . Separately , there 's insurance for the car itself . You will not have any such insurance unless you purchase some , whether from the rental car company ( CDW or LDW , which is n't strictly insurance , but is the rental car company agreeing you 're not responsible for damage to their car ) or a third-party . If the car is damaged or destroyed , stolen while in your possession , filled with flood water , dented in a hailstorm , or spontaneously combusts , whether your fault or not , you are responsible for paying for it . You might be able to recover costs from someone else 's insurance if they hit you and they 're at fault ( assuming they have insurance ) , but the rental car company will come after you to pay up . They 'll also charge you for the loss in revenue they incur while the car is being repaired . Unless you 're prepared to pay for the car on the spot , insurance is a good idea . In addition , the rental car company may offer accidental medical and/or death insurance to cover you and your passengers . This is likely already handled by your travel insurance and may be unnecessary . They also may offer Personal Effects Coverage , which will pay you if your property is stolen from the car . Again , this may already be handled under your travel insurance and is best avoided by not leaving property unattended in your car . The New York Times has a <URL> to the options that may prove useful .
I do n't know exactly what the situation is with businesses in Stockholm , but in Gothenburg ( the 2nd largest city ) , nearly every place will take both card and cash . Some places , generally high-end restaurants , will only take card as payment , and in festivals , street markets and student pubs it could happen that they only accept cash .
Are you after the physical answer , or the legal one ? Presuming he still physically has his license , and it has an expiry date beyond when he will be renting the car , then he will most likely be able to physically rent a car . If he is pulled over by the police , then he will most likely be able to lie and claim that his license is valid , and he will probably get away with it . However doing that will be illegal on many levels . Firstly , when renting a car , part of the rental agreement is that you have a valid drivers license and are legally allowed to drive in the country you 'll be driving in . As his license has been suspended he will NOT have a valid license , and will NOT be legally allowed to drive in the US . Thus by renting the car he will be committing fraud . Next , by actually driving , he will be driving without a license . Most countries ( including the US ) allow you to drive based on having a valid license in your home country . He does not , thus he will be driving illegally . When driving without a license , any insurance coverage he has ( including the rental car companies ( self - ) insurance , travel insurance , etc ) will be invalidated . He will be fully responsible financially for any accidents he causes , and very probably even if he is n't at fault . If he is involved in an accident you can all but guarantee that they will check on the validity of his home-country license , and not just take it for granted that it 's valid . If he is pulled over by a police officer it 's unlikely they will be able to tell that his overseas license is suspended , but if they can then he will definitely be charged , which will not only come with a hefty fine , but will leave him in a very unfortunate position as far as returning his rental car is concerned as they will not let him drive it to return it to the rental company . So can he rent a car ? Yes . Will he get away with it ? Probably . Will he be breaking countless laws and potentially risking prison time ? YES ! ( Driving without a license in California can lead to up to 6 months prison , I 'm presuming other states are similar )
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
I suggest : Eurostar from London to Paris ( 2h30 ) or to Brussels ( 2h00 ) Train to Istanbul ( 47 to 49h ) Train to Tehran ( 66h ) Bus to Bandar-e-Abbas Ferry to Dubaï Train may be faster and more comfortable in Europe . Bus may be faster and more comfortable in Middle-East . Information sites are : Train in Europe : <URL> ( I choose multilingual belgian site ) Turkey : <URL> Iran : <URL>
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
It 's common in Europe for many cars to have a Diesel or Gasoline version . Usually , but it is not a rule , if the model of the car has a letter D it 's a Diesel car , but this is not a rule . It 's not a rule as well for the car to have a letter on the model name . Usually in Diesel cars you will find some warnings about it . The rental car agent will tell you Next to the gas tank a warning about the type of petrol . The diameter of gasoline hose has a different size of a diesel hose . It will be hard to put the wrong hose inside the tank . The label on the key could have DIESEL written on it ( HERTZ does that )
<URL> has a great collection of walks , including many in the Peak District . It has information on grading/difficulty , length , locations , detailed instructions , and items of interest along the way . It does not have detailed maps , but provides references to the relevant OS maps that should be taken along .
There is a daily train leaving Amsterdam at 20:31 and arriving in Munich at 7:10 the following day . The trains leaves Munich at 22:47 each evening and arrives in Amsterdam at 8:56 . The price very much depends on when you travel , when you book and how much comfort you want to have . <URL> . From Munich you can take a local train to Garmisch-Partenkirchen , at the foot of the Zugspitze . It 's a 90 minutes ride . <URL> . The train continues to Innsbruck . You can consider that as well . In this case , take an accomadation in Innsbruck . There is a small ski resort , the Patscherkofel , accessible from the city center by funicular and cable car . If that 's not enough , you have some nice resorts which can easily be reached by a bus shuttle from Innsbruck , such as the Stubaier Gletscher , Schlick 2000 or Axamer Lizum . This way you can spend a nice skiing weekend without having to renounce to the amenities of a city . The train also calls at Wörgl , from where you have a very quick access to the very nice " Wilder Kaiser " resort . In case you do n't like to take the train , flying from Amsterdam into Munich will probably not ruin you . But it 's much less convenient . From Munich airport to Garmisch-Partenkirchen is more than 2h30 and you have the usual airport hassle . And probably less convenient schedules . The night train allows you to get the most out of your scarce time . If you are francophile , you can consider a flight to Geneva . With Easyjet you will find decent prices . From the Geneva airport you have bus shuttles to plenty of French and Swiss resorts . This will take you 1h30 to 2h00 , depending on the destination . Schedules are available on the homepage of Geneva 's airport . If " cheapness " is an important criterion , prefer France over Switzerland . I would also try to contact local tour operators and travel agencies . Chances are high that they have ready made packages just for short ski trips . Eventually , that might be the most convenient option . You just have to go to the office and book it . They take care of the logistics . It is not necessarily more expensive than if you try to brew something by yourself .
Driving from Liverpool into North Wales is a pretty poor choice , as you end up paying the toll in the Mersey Tunnel , then driving most of the way to Chester to cross the Dee , so you 're adding a lot of miles to your drive for no particular benefit . Chester is a reasonable choice , but you 're going to do a lot of miles on the A55 across North Wales before you get to any of the places that you 're interested in getting to . Given UK fuel prices , that 's adding cost without any good reason . I would suggest Llandudno . Google Maps has eleven car rental locations in Llandudno , which should be enough competition to keep prices sensible , and there are <URL> ( taking three hours ) every day from London Euston . Llandudno Junction Station is three miles from the centre of Llandudno , but there are two car-hire places - an Avis and an Enterprise - directly outside the station . Make sure you book for the ( small ) town of Llandudno Junction rather than the ( larger ) town of Llandudno
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
It is about $ 10 taxi ride to 40 Hana HWY location . consider than $ 20 in total ( cover both ways ) and than consider if the savings are worth it .
Yes , both foreigners and Russian citizens usually need a special permission to enter regions in Russia designated as border zones and Chukotka is one of them . On <URL> , you can along the Finnish border find some of the signs indicating the start of the regulated border zone . This might sound as an odd , paranoid remnant from the communist era , but you will actually find a similar , though not so broad ( up to 3km ) , <URL> , for which you need a special permit to enter as well . The Chukotka government offers a web page in English on the subject <URL> , but the text is somewhat confusing and addresses the ' inviting party ' . The thing is , that to obtain a border zone entry permit , you need a formal ' invitation ' from a subject within the border zone and the government 's information page seem to indicate that the inviting party must apply for the permit on your behalf . Such an ' invitation ' is by the way even required for a regular Russian tourist visa and for tourists in most cases issued by a Russian tourist agency . Even if I ca n't find any tangible information , I would be pretty sure that you need assistance from a Chukotkan tourist agency for them to apply for an entry permit on your behalf . On the web site visitchukotka.com , you can both find a list of <URL> and some details on the <URL> they offer .
If you rented the car with a credit card , you will have signed something that says they can charge these things to your credit card and it 's not disputable . The only speed-camera ticket I ever got was in a rental car ( and they tacked on a handling fee to boot . ) It took weeks to come through , but it came as a charge on my credit card . If you had driven your own car on the 407 and then not paid the toll , there would be consequences for the car . ( At one point , you could n't renew your license plates if you had outstanding tolls against that plate . ) Presumably the car people have paid the toll so that their car can still function . You now owe them the money . I am completely sure you 've signed something that holds you liable for these charges . Since you 're describing an invoice , you must have rented the car with cash or cheque . Whether to pay or not now is no different than if you had ordered something and then not paid for it once it was delivered . The country as a whole is not in the habit of enforcing these sorts of debts , so you probably wo n't be nabbed at the border , but you can be certain that the rental company will keep track of you . If they hand the debt to a collection company , it 's possible the collector would find it worthwhile to harass you from a distance . They can be pretty nasty . To me it 's simple . You signed that you would pay such things . Pay it . If it 's a lot of money and you ca n't afford it right now , contact them and tell them so , and arrange to pay it over time . But pay it . And next time stay off the toll highways ( they 're clearly signed ) if it 's not your intention to pay the toll .
Internet is everywhere in the UK . You can buy a wifi dongle with prepaid sim card in any mobile phone store on any network . The price is reasonable - about # 15 for the dongle itself , which include 1 GB of data . Then you just pay for data packs ( # 7-10 per GB of data depending on the network ) . Most hotels offer WiFi these days . Most small hotels include it into the price , larger ones charge for it . In addition , majority of coffee shops , cafes and even McDonalds offer free wifi for their customers . The long story short - you wo n't have any troubles getting online .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
end question
start question
Which sights are open late in Paris ?
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
Yes , but it 's a bit fiddly . If , when you are booking , you are either logged in with a BAEC Silver or Gold membership active ( BAEC silver and gold get seat selection for free at the time of booking ) , or you are doing a ( not logged in ) search for a fully flexible ticket ( full fare tickets get free seat selection at the time of booking ) , then almost at the end of the booking process before entering your credit card details , it lets you pick a seat : At that point , bring up the seat selection tool , and see how many seats are free on that flight . If not enough , go back and pick a different flight . If so , go back and pick the fare class you really wanted to book on . Expect to take a minute or two per flight you check , by the time you get to that bit of the booking ! Remember that this will only show if you 're doing a search when logged in as a BAEC Silver or Gold ( other BAEC tiers or other OneWorld status wo n't work during the booking process ) , or when doing a fully-flexible search when not logged in . Otherwise , some travel agents can look it up , and they can also look up how busy the flight is in a general sense ( how many tickets for sale in each cabin in each fare class ) . If you care , it might be easier to get a good travel agent , ring them up , have them look at the loadings then book you onto the flight with the loading / seats you 're after .
You can pay for almost everything by Visa or Mastercard in Paris . There might be a minimum purchase amount of a few euros ; 5 or 10 euros used to be common but many places have lowered that minimum . There are only a few places where you should expect to have to pay in cash : Street stalls , e.g. markets . Some merchants will take cards but not all . Markets are the best place to buy produce ( do n't buy produce from a French supermarket ) . Shops that mostly sell low-ticket items -- mostly bakeries . Many do n't take cards , and the ones that do wo n't take them for just a croissant . Maybe some cafés in out-of-the-way neighborhoods ( but definitely not cafés in any halfway upscale or touristy place ) . I 've never seen a place that took Mastercard and not Visa or vice versa . On the other hand , most shops do n't take American Express , apart from hotels , upscale restaurants and fashion stores .
Prague 1 has both the biggest concentration of bars , clubs and old pubs , and the biggest concentration of sights . Check out the Foursquare map for the <URL> : And the <URL> : Therefore you should stay in Prague 1 . I can recommend staying near the <URL> , as that 's the nexus of Prague 's public transport .
That 's a wonderful time to visit England . I 've visited the area in April-May several years ago and did a similar trip to what you 're describing ( southern England , Wales and spent a week in London itself ) , and it was awesome . Note that this year you should n't be in London in July-September , unless you 're interested in Olympics . That means that people who want to visit England not for Olympics will probably go there earlier than usual , and you 'll have all the crowd you want to avoid right there with you . But do n't let it stop you , England is wonderful any time , especially late spring and early summer .
First , as Gilles pointed out there 's likely a limit to how many on each train have this rate , so if you wait too long you risk missing out . However , assuming they 're available , <URL> , for saving fares : Availabilty : From 91 days up to one day before travel Note that they also point out what we 've suggested , that : Please note that the tickets are subject to availability .
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
Apparently there are images of these beaches being polluted with the oil but reports say so far no official closing of the beaches as stated in the other answer of @pnuts <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and finally there is a video of frustrated citizens trying to clean the beach : <URL> <URL> <URL>
As far as I can establish from Wiki , there are seven famous stepwells in India : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They look fantastic , I 'll have to get myself to India sometime soon !
The Bulgaria automobile club has a <URL> showing which roads are open and which roads are closed . The only problem is that website in available only on Bulgarian , but it 's possible to understand the information : The first section is about the highways ( Автомагистрали ) - their names begin with AM . The second section is about the passes ( Проходи ) - you can check the names on <URL> . When the colour is red it means that the pass is closed ( затворен ) , otherwise they are open ( отворен ) however it 's possible that there are some restrictions , usually for trucks .
Partial Open Bathrooms , usually refers to ensuite facilities where the sink and mirror are out in the open , while the shower and toilet are inside closed rooms/stalls . A lot of the ones I have seen have a divider between the sleeping area and washing area , but usually just something minimal , like three quarter height screen or wooden slats . It seems to be trending in tropical hotels , but would work well in city hotels , as the design makes the bath area feel bigger while still maximizing the space for the living/sleeping portion
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
The 2nd of January is not a public holiday in Germany . Since it is a Saturday , most shops should be open with their Saturday opening hours . For some local shops , this may mean that they close relatively early . Having said that , some shops may be closed anyway " for holidays " . Also , the beginning of the year is a classical time for making an inventory . Some shops close for that as doing a rolling inventory is a bit complicated . So if you plan to visit some shop on the 2nd of January , you may want to call them in advance in order to verify that they will open on that day.g
Are there any current major Finnish cities where the architecture is medieval , or at least " pre modern " ( before the late 1600s ) ? In short , no . Compared to most countries in central and southern Europe , Finland has very few remaining medieval buildings ( or indeed buildings older than 100-200 years , sadly ) . Most buildings back then were wooden ( and primitive ) and have burnt down at some point or another . There are some medieval castles , however . These three are the most notable and best preserved : <URL> , oldest parts of which date from 1200s . Photo : <URL> , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1300s , in Hämeenlinna , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1400s , in Savonlinna , in the historical province of Savonia , Eastern Finland . <URL> ( Åbo in Swedish , which used to be the dominant language during most of its history ) is by far the oldest city in Finland , and besides the castle , there 's <URL> , originally from 13th century ( but largely rebuilt in 1800s ) . But if you go to Turku expecting to see a city centre with lots of historical buildings , you 'd be disappointed . Much of the centre consists of rather ugly buildings from 1960s and 70s ; e.g. . <URL> shows what I mean . To see lots of beautiful old buildings in Finland , even whole neighbourhoods of them , I 'd definitely recommend Helsinki . ( Besides the area around Senate Square , check out Kruununhaka , Katajanokka , Eira , Ullanlinna , Töölö , and Kallio districts . Oh , and the <URL> sea fortress which is awesome in summer . ) But by " old " , I mean mostly 1800s and early 1900s , nothing even close to medieval . Edit : Besides the castles , there are nearly 100 remaining medieval stone churches in Finland . <URL> ( in Finnish , but at least photos and dates are universally understandable ) . Of course , there 's typically just one of these in a town or village . Wikipedia also has a pretty comprehensive <URL> , ranging from 1748 to 1889 , with photos and addresses/coordinates . Edit 2 : <URL> , <URL> , should be mentioned too . It 's a UNESCO world heritage site that a guidebook I have ( The Rough Guide to Finland ) describes thusly : Despite the large number of tourists it attracts , the medieval core of Old Rauma ( Vanha Rauma ) , held within a narrow triangle of land bordered on two sides by the trickling Raumanjoki river , holds enough quiet lanes , paths and alleyways -- a total of six hundred individual buildings across a thirty-hectare area -- to allow you to explore almost undisturbed . ( Oldest buildings date from 18th century , as fires in 1640 and 1682 destroyed the town , so I guess it 's not strictly medieval . Or perhaps the architecture is ? )
There are several . Two of the biggest are : <URL> <URL> Hope that helps ! Another trick I figured out in Kazakhstan is to search for foursquare.com posts about wifi - for example , I was wondering if Astana airport had free wifi , and indeed , <URL> confirmed that it did , and that it is fast ! :)
Istanbul Ataturk airport is open 24 hours . I have personally gone through transfer in the international zone at 4 or 5 in the morning several times . I believe the domestic zone is the same . Note that the gate information likely wo n't be available until about two hours before departure of your second flight . Please edit your question and add details of your flights ( from/to locations , times , airlines , whether they are all on one ticket or separate tickets ) - and we might be able to help further .
Right now I am in a restaurant with a cycle-rickshaw driver from Varanasi so here are the answers to your questions . Beside this driver , these are my experiences as well as I was there a few weeks ago . There are only two cremation ( burning ) ghats in Varanasi , a big one - Manikarnika , and a smaller one - Harishchandra . ( A bit of trivia - location of body burning depends on the location of the body , it is carried to a closer one . ) Bodies are being carried through Varanasi streets with body carriers ( ca n't remember what they are called right now ) chanting along the way . There are common routes but that also depends on the starting location of the deceased . You can completely avoid this procession by not leaving your hotel at all ( since the burning is being preformed 24 hours a day ) . I do n't really know what you mean by purest ghat but if you mean something like - which has the least dirt or garbage , I would say it depends on the time of the day but if I had to choose one , I 'd pick Assi ghat , the southernmost one . This is also an area with pretty expensive and posh hotels ( except for a few ) . If you meant to ask where the water is purest , there is a simple answer to that one - it 's the same river so the water is exactly the same everywhere in Varanasi and your parents will be having a holy dip in a holy river wherever they decide to do it . Mind you , riverbed is full of sunken bodies that are put there after the burning is over . The most busy ghat is Lalita , where there are people praying and bathing in the morning and praying and lighting floating candles with flowers in the evening . Unfortunately for you , it is a ghat that is very near to the main burning ghat .
Yes , there is ! On the <URL> , <URL> the main museums and art galleries are open for free . The only slight downside is that loads of people take advantage of this , so the queues can be quite long ( it took 25 minutes to get into le Musée d'Orsay today mid afternoon as a guide ) , and they can be very busy inside . See <URL> on avoiding the worst of the queues at the Louvre for example . Still , if you do n't mind the queues to get in , you can see some amazing museums and works of art for free , you just need to play your trip to Paris to hit the first Sunday of the month ! ( You can do the museums that are free all the time , such as those mentioned in the question , on the day before/after , so you can maximise your time on the Sunday at the places that normally charge )
Being an IOSA certified airline indeed means you have reached a certain level of safety ( good level ) , but not being certified does NOT necessarily mean you have not reached that level . For a small airlines like WOW , being IOSA certified is nothing but a waste of money . Why ? because passing IOSA costs a lot of money ( around $ 60,000 for the audit organization only ) in addition to other costs related to that . IOSA audit is mandatory now to be a part of IATA , but again , an airline like WOW does not need to be part of IATA , many other small airlines or even larger airlines ( like Ryanair ) chose not to because they do not benefit from it . Most larger airlines will benefit from IOSA for many reasons , reputation is one of them , minimizing bilateral audits between airlines is another reason . So if X airlines wants to audit Z airlines before code sharing , they will just take permission to check their IOSA audit records instead of conducting their own audits as airlines used to do in the past , this will save money and time . For many airlines , IOSA audits are nothing more than a way of making good money for IATA , I am saying this because IOSA audits only check the minimum required safety policies and procedures while most airlines ( especially large ones ) have much more strict safety policies . Bottom line , as mentioned in the other answer , civil aviation authorities are responsible about enforcing safety policies , and EU has a very good one . So , as long as the airline is certified to work in EU then that 's a good sign . BTW , I am a certified auditor from IATA and I know a thing or two about IOSA .
end question
start question
Are trains from Narita Airport running on New Year 's eve ?
Trains in Japan run on New Year 's Eve , and January 1st . For most of the day , they will operate with a weekend/holiday schedule ; however , some lines expand their service to cover late-night and early morning " <URL> " visits . I doubt that the airport line sees any increase in service . If you search hard enough , you may come across some information about Keisei 's expanded service at New Years between Narita and Asakusa , as both of those areas are extremely popular for hatsumode . Warning : This is not for Narita Airport , but the not-so-nearby Narita Station . This <URL> was made last year on December 4 , so it is reasonable to expect that you can get similar information around the same time this year . They may include the airport in their expanded schedule , but I doubt it .
You will find less traffic on Manali route because majority of commercial and defense vehicles use Srinagar route which is also a better quality road . <URL> route has a lot more options as compared to <URL> for both accommodation and places to eat . Manali route does not have as many petrol pumps as Srinagar route does . If you do go via Manali , the only large town ( not so large ) is Keylong and that is the only place in addition to Sarchu where you can find decent accommodation . Srinagar route has plenty of places to stay .
No visa is required for transiting in Japanese airports if you have immediate flight connections regardless of nationality . Anyway , there is a <URL> which is intended for people who have longer layovers before transiting and want to go sightseeing or resting in Japan for few days ( up to 15 days ) .
No , this will not be a problem . You are permitted to do this . Often times , I have had a valid visa on my old passport but I am using my current passport for travel .
They made a <URL> in 2010 about this service . The advertised domain for this service , specially targeted at backpackers , does not exist anymore , so I would assume this service is discontinued . If you are willing to pay a bit more ( ¥ 2,700 ) , you can use the <URL> to bring you from Narita to Asakusa .
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
I have n't done a Times Square New Year 's Eve in over a decade , but I 'd say if you can manage changing trains at 42nd Street during rush hour , it 's no great challenge . Compared to most American cities ( if not , say , Mumbai ) , New York City is an " unyielding crush of humanity " on any ordinary day . The sidewalks are crowded , the subways are crowded , the stores are crowded . The good news is that on account of this , New Yorkers are quite accustomed to negotiating crowds wherever they go . You find others in the crowd going the same direction as you are and go with that flow rather than trying to move against it on your own ... or you learn to push and be pushed a little . That 's how the stereotypical New Yorker is , to this day , always rushing around town from appointment to appointment -- not working endlessly at the office like a Tokyoite or on the mobile phone stuck in traffic like an Angeleno . New Year 's Eve is the biggest party day , but there are other big parties like St. Patrick 's Day , not to mention dozens of parade days , street festival days , game days , and other excuses to congregate in public areas . Inside Times Square or wherever the main event is , people will be shoulder to shoulder , but in the area beyond only an extreme agoraphobe would be unable to move about . Road travel is tougher , as surrounding streets may be closed during special events and it may be hard to find a taxi , but that 's true of any city . If you find a group of immobile tourists on New Year 's Eve in Manhattan , it 's probably the cold . People seem to underestimate how cold it gets , since the tall buildings both block out the sun and channel stiff winds .
There are direct trains , which run on the Keisei Sky Access line or the Keisei Main Line between Narita airport and Aoto station , and then continue on the Keisei Oshiage line and the Toei Asakusa line , as shown on these <URL> screenshots . <URL> <URL> Note the triangle-shaped icons to the left of the station names : they indicate that this is the same train running on different lines , so you do not get off the train at those stations . Note also that the Access Express trains ( which run on the Keisei Sky Access line ) take less time , but cost more . By the way , there is currently no direct train leaving Narita airport between 14:00 and 15:00 and stopping at Higashi-Ginza , but there are some which stop at Nihombashi and Shinbashi nearby , which could be good enough for you .
I 've found that they 're reliable during the day but can be problematic ( no cars available ) after midnight . In that case I recommend using their local ( slightly pricier ) equivalent <URL> . In Terminal 1 they pick up from the parking lot P1 outside the arrivals hall . In Terminal 2 they pick up from outside the departures hall . The app will tell you where you 'll be picked up once you select the airport as your location :
Immigration happens in Munich ( i.e. where you are first arriving in the Schengen area ) . Two hours should be enough time to pass through immigration and change planes . If both of your flights are on one booking in fact Lufthansa will get you on a later flight to Dusseldorf in case of delays and deems that time enough since they were willing to sell you this ticket .
<URL> , after 50 pre-orders were cancelled , there are now 797 pre-orders for the 787 . This is spread among 54-55ish ( some are unidentified ) customers . Sadly <URL> only shows delivered planes , and that only includeds the ANA plane for the inaugural passenger flight . Of course as this is updated with more deliveries , it could become more useful and relevant .
OK , December 31st is not a <URL> but January 1st is . The Wikipedia article on Rio de Janeiro states in the <URL> that buses run 24 hours , but the metro runs a Sunday service on public holidays ( new years day happens to be a Sunday next year anyway ) Rest of week metro service : 5am - 12am Sunday metro service : 7am - 11pm The <URL> has some in-depth information about getting around Rio like last carriages on the metro being women-only . There is also a full run down of how the taxis work . Several of the visit Rio sites which , I wo n't link to as I 'm not sure if they 're factual so much as outright marketing material , suggest that getting away from the main attractions on new years eve will be extremely time consuming and one should find a club to ' wait it out ' , they also note that several beach-front hotels offer buffet breakfast ' very early ' . Useful stuff I found along the way : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
Yes there are plenty . The most thourough experience is probably to visit Skansen - the outdoors combined zoo and open-air museum at Djurgården . They have some <URL> about this . In swedish there are <URL> about the festivities . Almost everwhere there are some kind of local festivity going on . It may be hard to track down . In Sollentuna where I live there is traditional celebrations at the local folk museum ( called hembygdsgård in swedish ) . This is very common . Most swedes however bring friends and family to their summer houses and have a smaller celebration . This is the most genuine way to do it . Things to expect : Typically you start at lunch with sill and nubbe . ( Pickled herring and spiced vodka . ) Then you may either have a maypole of your own to construct and raise or you visit one of the local festivities for this part of the celebrations . Once the pole is raised there are supposed to be some music and tradiational dancing around it . This part is mostly forgotten and usually only includes the childrens dance called " Små grodorna " - the little frogs . ( Skansen will surely have some traditional dancing going on though . ) Update : a <URL> to get the feeling for this part . After the pole part it may be time for sports . <URL> is a game from gotland that is played all over the country nowadays . I have also been involved in soccer games at this stage of the day . Later on - more food . More sill and nubbe but also BBQed meet . New potatoes are also an important part of both lunch and dinner . This may often be the first time of the year when you can have new potatoes . Really nice ! Expect to sing some nubbevisor to the spirits . More ambitious people have a little booklet with songs to sings in relation to drinking . They are supposed to end with a " Skål " and everyone drinking the nubbe . Strawberries are an important part of the food stuffs . The most pure way to have it is plain with fat milk but it is also common with home made strawberry cake . <URL> by mariahagglof of flickr . We always talk about typical swedish summer weather in relation to midsummer . We have all spent one or two midsummers freezing in a party tent at someones summr house . When the weather is good it is a different story though . Traditional clothing . Different parts of Sweden has different kind of tradiational clothing and the most likely day to use it is on midsummers eve . If you are a not married woman you can pick seven different kinds of flowers and ( in some versions ) jump over seven hedges . Then put the flowers under your pillow and you will dream of your future spouse . If in doubt about any of this just ask any swede at hand . They will be happy to explain it all . In short - a bigger celebration may have more of the traditional stuff included but a smaller one is more the way most swedes do it . After this I leave you with this ( somewhat sad ) maypole from my families celebrations in 2011 .
You can see this in the <URL> or on any map with the <URL> . The first place to see a new day is the <URL> , more precisely the part that belongs to <URL> ( formerly known as the Gilbert Islands ) . The Line Islands are in the UTC +14 timezone , and the rest of the country is in UTC +13 . This has been the case since 1995 ; before that , the country straddled the date line . The Line Islands saw some first-to-new-millennium tourism in 2000 . Since today , 31 December 2011 , there is another territory in the UTC +14 timezone : <URL> , a dependency of New Zealand . Together with the independent country of <URL> ( UTC +13 ) , <URL> to move from the western hemisphere to the eastern hemisphere , in order to match weekdays with the other countries in Oceania . There is one more country at UTC +13 : <URL> . Most other Pacific nations are in UTC +10 to UTC +12 . And if you want to be the last to cross the line , there are formally a few places at UTC-12 , but they are uninhabited <URL> . In UTC-11 are more US Minor Outlying Islands , <URL> and the New Zealand dependency of <URL> ( as long as it does n't follow Tokelau 's example ) .
In the Netherlands , there are different rail cards , some group discounts and special offers but no discount for multiple/return travel . A day return costs exactly the same as a single . Except for international trains like Thalys , available fare do not change over time and reserving a specific seat is not possible so absolutely no reason not to buy single tickets at the last minute if you want to .
Private Car Hire , Taxi , Car Rental or Public Transport There are a few options to get from Bologna airport to Reggio Emilia , listed below sorted by cost . The private car hire or the taxis are the most expensive solution but also the most convenient since you leave the airport terminal , board a taxi and be at your hotel in approximately one hour , hassle free . Car rentals might close late at night as you say , although some mention 24hour access for pick-up and drop-off . It might be worth inquiring directly with them . Public transport is definitely the cheapest option but requires you to take a shuttle and a train , thus reducing the overall comfort of the journey . Moreover the last shuttle leaves 45 minutes after your landing time so that might be short in case you have checked-in luggage to pick-up . 1 . Private Car Hire You can book a private car hire departing from the airport . These services are called in Italian ( rental with driver ) and tend to be more expensive than taxis . The advantage being that you are sure the booked car will be there to pick you up , whereas this is not always true for taxis - you might have to wait for them , especially at night . <URL> . I tried a sample booking with <URL> from the airport to the centre of Reggio Emilia with a late pick-up time at 00:00 , for a total cost of 150.00 : 2 . Taxi You can get a taxi from the airport to Reggio Emilia . <URL> , as well as a price listing which should apply to both since taxis are regulated by the council authorities . <URL> assuming you are aiming for the centre of the city . All in all this ballpark quote seems to be correct . A rapid calculation using <URL> at the time of writing yields : ( the price breakdown is : late night fee , airport fee , airport toll , price per km when the journey is outside the urban city limits ( Reggio Emilia is ) , 70km distance between airport and city centre ) . Of course you 'll have to multiply this by two since I 'm assuming you 'll have to go back to the airport at the end of your business trip . Note that you might have to wait for taxis at night ( not from personal experience at the Bologna airport , rather a general rule of thumb across Italian cities ) . 3 . Car Rental <URL> . Indeed <URL> mentions office hours from 08:00 to 24:00:00 , however you might not need the office to pick-up your car keys - sometimes these procedures are automatic ( especially if you paid in advance ) or happen directly at the car pick-up point . I tried a sample booking with Hertz ( pick-up at 00:30 ) but could not get a quote . All the listings say . This might be because the office is closed at night , or for some other reason . My advice would therefore be : call the Hertz office during working hours and ask for information on late pick-ups . 4 . Shuttle + Train The cheapest option would surely be taking the <URL> , and then a train to Reggio Emilia Centrale . <URL> , and <URL> . Total cost for this journey would be ~ 11.80 ( 6 for the shuttle and 5.80 for the train ticket ) .
This may be better suited for photography.SE Generally speaking your requirement of time lapse photography you will need a permit if you will be on <URL> and explanation of <URL> . When it comes to private buildings access to using the observation deck or the roof is regulated by the building owner . Normally places with accessible observation decks forbid tripods without a <URL> because they take too much space . There are <URL> that make suggestions on what to do instead . So the option you choose is up to you .
Honestly ? There 's only a few dozen intersections where this sort of ambiguity is a thing ; while Street , Avenue is the most common usage , I 've heard the reverse often enough , as have most New Yorkers , that if you 're talking about an intersection of two single digit roads , you 're going to qualify/classify it . There are a variety of reasons that this does n't matter much elsewhere in New York . In Manhattan , it 's because Avenues only go up to 12 , and there are some 200 crosstown streets ; the West Village and it 's peculiar bending of the grid and named streets means that you have very few intersections of numbered Streets with numbered Avenues south of 14th . ( Specifically , you have two ' First and Seconds ' , and a pair of " Third and Sixths " . That 's it . You can confirm that on a map if you like . ) In Brooklyn , you have several separate street grids . Numbered streets intersect with named streets in Williamsburg and Greenpoint , but be sure to remember the North or South designation . Over in Park Slope , you run into the only real potential source of confusion - but they 're all within a fairly small 5x5 block area - it 's not a huge issue . In South Brooklyn , the intersecting streets are numbers and letters , so again , not a problem . Finally we have Queens . Queens is , to the uninitiated , a total mess . The thing to understand about Queens , is that you can have as many as 5 streets with the same number running in parallel to each other , and another 5 running perpendicular across the entire borough . In Queens , you 'll never give a location as number and number , because the suffix ( Street , Avenue , Road , Drive , Court , Place , Terrace , Crescent , etc. ) is essential information in the address . To use your own example , there is literally no such place as " Third and Fifth " anywhere in NYC anyway ; and most other , similar examples you might contrive do n't actually exist to cause the confusion you 'd imagine that they could . It generally does n't matter , because for the vast majority of cases , the numbers themselves imply where the pair meets .
end question
start question
Are tourists or their staff at risk of bride kidnapping in the Kazakh parts of Mongolia ?
Bride kidnapping , in general , is specific to the Kazakh community . It 's not what Western communities would imagine of kidnapping , in that <URL> and indeed ( and terribly ) <URL> <URL> via social isolation and exclusion . It 's largely ritualized and <URL> : In the case of non-consensual bride kidnapping , a woman is physically kidnapped by a man she hardly knows or by a man she is clearly not interested in . As such you and your travelling companions should n't be targets for bride kidnapping . However there are <URL> , despite <URL> <URL> to the contrary . That would be of more concern , but it seems that occurrences are no more likely in the Kazakh parts of Mongolia as opposed to any other part of the country , or indeed other countries .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
Nope , they do n't care . I just checked with one of my British friends who went to India in 2010 - he specified port of entry as Delhi but flew in to Mumbai instead as he changed his itinerary . I think it 's more of a formality really , since you 'll be filling out a disembarkation form at the airport anyway specifying your entry details .
It depends . I 've entered it several times . Inevitably I 'm asked about my travel plans , and I explain my trip . Sometimes they 've asked how and when I 'm leaving Canada . Only on two occasions have they asked to see evidence of said trip . But they have asked , and have the right to ask . In addition , many airlines will refuse to carry you to a country ( eg Canada ) if you do n't have an exit ticket as well . Simple solution if you do n't have one yet - buy a refundable plane ticket , or a megabus/greyhound ticket from Vancouver to Seattle or Toronto to Buffalo .
Although it 's true that there are copious amounts of anti-German rhetoric in local media , it 's mostly targeted towards German politics and politicians , not Germany in general or its people . Ewald Lienen , a German football coach who has been working in Greece for a few years , was recently asked more or less the same question by the Bild and <URL> : I feel no animosity or German-hatred . On the contrary , they are all very courteous and friendly to me . I was not ever insulted , because I 'm from Germany . As a tourist , even if you were misidentified as a German , you would n't really be at risk , at least not more at risk than if you were Greek . And the Netherlands does n't really come up in fiery crisis related talks ( and why would it ? ) . To generalize the answer a bit , tourists from the EU do n't really have anything to fear . Yes , it 's possible that you might get a snarky look ( or two ) if you 're German , but that 's about it . Greece has a very long tradition in tourism , it 's part of our culture and essential to our frail economy . As choster <URL> there have been no reported incidents of violence against tourists since the crisis began . If you do decide to visit Greece soon , and you happen to get into a political discussion with a Greek , just agree with whatever they tell you and you 'll probably get a couple of free beers out of it ;)
The Galilee region of Israel is considered quite safe , and is not near any of the hot spots you are concerned about . You 're more likely to be bitten by a scorpion . The <URL> goes into some more detail , and says in part : The Galilee region is quite stable . There is always some risk associated with hiking and camping alone in any part of the world , but the risk in the Galilee region is very minimal ... While the media often portrays Israel and Palestine as perpetual hotspots of violence , the tourist areas of the region are generally very safe with a high level of security . Tourists have not ordinarily been targets of violence in the region , and politically motivated violence in Israel has been low for the past two years .
According to <URL> : Various insurgent groups continue to operate in the Shan , Mon , Chin ( Zomi ) , and Karen States of Myanmar , along the Thai and Chinese borders . Travel to these regions generally requires a government permit . The government also restricts travel to Kayah State , Rakhine State and Kachin state due to insurgent activity . However travel is entirely unrestricted to the districts of Yangon , Bago , Ayeyarwady , Sagaing , Taninthayi , Mandalay and Magwe . So it appears that according to that , at least , there are still restrictions . However , there 's no date given , or source . So next , we 'll go with the <URL> : There is high risk to your security along the borders with China , Laos and Thailand and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel . Military activity , ethnic militias , armed drug smugglers , and the presence of landmines pose a particularly high risk to your safety . Travel restrictions are in place in most border areas and there are only a limited number of legal crossing points . There is high risk to your security in the state of Rakhine where the government has imposed emergency measures following serious civil unrest and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel . There is some risk to your security elsewhere in Myanmar due to the unsettled political situation and threat from terrorism and we advise caution . This was current and updated today , so it seems that there are still some restrictions , although it 's sort of vague . Back to <URL> : Much of Myanmar is closed to foreign travellers , and many land routes to far-flung areas are also closed ( for example , to Mrauk U , Kalewa , Putao , Kengtung ) . Thus , while travellers can travel freely in the Bamar majority Burmese heartland , travel tends to be restricted or circumscribed in other places . In theory , any tourist can apply for a permit to visit any restricted area or to travel on any restricted land route . In practice , it is unlikely that any such permit will be issued in a reasonable amount of time , or at all . Permit requests can be made locally in some cases ( for example , requests for the land route to Kalewa can be made in Shwebo ) but , in most cases , the request has to be made in Yangon . Requests to visit restricted areas must be made at the MTT ( Myanmar Travel and Tours ) office in Yangon ( Number 77-91 , Sule Pagoda Road , Yangon ) . Applications for local permits can often be made at a local MTT office or at a police station . As of writing this , local permits are available only for the following places &amp; routes : this for you . Mrauk U Chin / Zomi village tours . Easily available in Mrauk U but must visit with a guide . Your hotel or a local tour company can arrange this for you . All other permits must be obtained in Yangon . Finally , the <URL> ( they call it Burma ) , with some really good detail on the restrictions : On 31 August the Burmese government announced restrictions on access for tourists to Sittwe and Mrauk-U and a curfew remains in force across much of Rakhine State . We advise against all but essential travel to Rakhine State . The current curfew times are 18:00 to 06:00 , but this may change . We advise any British nationals in Rakhine State to check timings of the curfew locally and follow any instructions . The British Embassy in Rangoon stands ready to provide consular assistance . British nationals working for NGOs and other companies should keep in close contact with those organisations . Following this outbreak of violence , a number of demonstrations took place in Rangoon . While protests have not been violent , we advise that you avoid all demonstrations and large gatherings . The Burmese government restricts travel to most border areas . There are a limited number of legal crossing points , but these could close without notice : You must exit Burma at the same border crossing from which you entered , and Burmese immigration officers may request to hold your passport until your visit is complete . Do not attempt to cross any border illegally or enter restricted areas without the appropriate permissions from the Burmese authorities . The Ministry of Hotels , Tourism and Sport maintains a list of approved destinations . Tourists can visit Rangoon , Mandalay , Bago and Irrawaddy regions without restrictions . Other destinations are subject to limitations : access by air or train but not by road . Queries on permission should be directed to the Burmese authorities , not the British Embassy in Rangoon . See www.myanmartourism.org or call the Ministry of Tourism on +95 67 406129 . Be particularly vigilant if travelling to border areas . There is ongoing military activity close to borders with Thailand , Laos and China especially in Shan , Karen and Kachin States . There is ongoing conflict in parts of Kachin State and the far north of Shan State . Th
There is no nationally , or even locally mandated standard . I 've certainly seen friends have no issues using both Passports and Drivers Licenses from their home country . I 've also seen people have issues - especially when their ID is written in a non-latin script , or when they have a DOB which can be misread by using a non-American date ordering scheme , ( i.e. someone born on August the 10th , 1992 , would have their BOD listed as 8/10/92 here in the states , and would be of legal drinking age . If their ID instead reads 10/8/92 a not particularly sharp waiter may give you a hard time - admittedly , an extreme edge case . ) Realistically , there 's no single answer that can be provided here however , because there is no standard for what 's accepted . At the end of the day , the acceptability of your proof of age is up to the merchant with whom you do business to evaluate . You 'll have an easier time in more cosmopolitan cities like New York , but realistically , you ca n't do much better than your Passport , and I 've almost never seen an issue with one .
It 's possible , although I would not necessary recommend it in the current climate . First , a map courtesy of the CIA : Start from <URL> , in the Turkish area of Kurdistan . Cross into Iraqi Kurdistan via the <URL> checkpoint , firmly in Kurdish hands , and the town of Zakho . Detour to <URL> at Syria 's northeastern tippy-top if you absolutely must plant your flag in Syrian Kurdistan , then continue to Iran via Erbil ( Irbil ) , which has direct buses to Urmia ( " Orumiyeh " on the CIA map ) via the <URL> checkpoint . Ta-dah , you 've now covered all three ( or four ) countries .
A T4 visa has traditionally added some extra time beyond the end of the student 's course of study so that the student could spend some leisure time touring and gadding about before they left . This is accounted for in the expiry date of the visa , and there are no implicit extensions . You need to be out of the UK by the expiry of your T4 . They do not automatically add extra time after a T4 expires simply because the person is a non visa national ( e.g. , American , Canadian , etc ) . If you assume something like that you risk getting caught as an overstayer when you finally do exit . If you try telling them that you thought you automatically got extra time ( or any other rationale along those lines ) , they will roll their eyes and serve you with a removal notice . Part of the licensing process for a school to be able to sponsor T4 's is that they have an <URL> s . You would have received a letter when you first started identifying that person . You can print out this answer and show it to them to clarify your question along with any other questions you have . Overall , they are getting very <URL> about stuff like that . They are making new rules that will be retrospective to October 2015 ... Mrs May believes the current rules are being abused , with many students staying in the country illegally after their studies , BBC political correspondent Carole Walker said . Source : <URL> The good news : You can always clear UK exit controls to Calais , turn around , and get admitted as a visitor . If you have a successful landing interview , they will stamp your passport with a new expiry date . Sometimes it works , and sometimes it does n't .
So after talking to a friend in Port Moresby , it appears that : Alotau has daily flights from Port Moresby with <URL> or <URL> Normandy Island , he reckons you may have to charter a boat from Alotau which defeats the point of accessibility Solomon Islands also fly from Port Moresby with <URL> . Conclusion : Alotau appears to be the one to go for , in terms of both accessibility and price .
The general ( worldwide ) trend is probably to extend VOA but since visa rules are in a constant state of flux buying a visa from a Consulate should provide some reassurance that you wo n't be declined boarding due to the withdrawal of a VOA facility . VOAs can be cheaper than visas via Consulates which are easy money , so not promoted as heavily ( eg by visa agencies ) -- may account for some of your ( understandable ! ) confusion . Tanzania however is not trying to discourage tourists and the fees are the same either way ( <URL> for a German citizen ) . Waits seem to vary roughly <URL> so if on a very tight timescale via Consulate might get you out of the airport a little sooner . Note that Tanzania are fussy about the age and condition of notes if paying in USD -- not an issue is buying the visa at a Consulate . Also that VOAs for Tanzania are only valid for arrival at certain <URL> . Elsewhere there is no VOA option . <URL> . <URL>
Is it advisable to dive/snorkel in that region of the world ? There is some recreational diving and snorkelling in Sierra Leone , but not much . There used to be a dive centre at Franco 's just outside of Freetown , and a diving school called Salone Scuba , but both have closed down . As well as challenges related to the economic situation and low tourism , the water visibility is pretty bad ( this is true for most of the West African coast ) , and the currents are complicated and strong - following local guidance is essential . That said , there are corals , tropical fish aplenty and wrecks from a number of historical eras . What does still exist is a basic dive centre , <URL> based at <URL> , which also has a water activities centre including snorkelling . It 's on Banana Island just off the southern tip of the western peninsula . It 's run by a PADI-qualified scuba divemaster and keen spearfisher known locally as " Greg the Greek " . Wreck diving and spear fishing are probably the main attractions . Apparently there are wrecks near Banana Island that can be seen by snorkelling only , no scuba required . Note that regarding scuba at Banana Divers , it 's for qualified / experienced divers only . Greg used to do taster dives for beginners , but as of 2016 prefers not to . The equipment is in a condition that is usable for experienced divers who know which types of minor leak are n't cause for concern , but would be challenging for beginners . Is there a serious threat of shark attacks in those waters ? The risk of sharks is even less of a consideration than anywhere else . The waters off West Africa are notorious for unregulated fishing , and the <URL> . Barracuda and trigger fish are pretty common , but ( unlike trigger fish in some other parts of the world ) if you leave them alone , they 'll leave you alone . Shark encounters are almost unheard-of . The real risks : Rip currents still kill multiple foreigners a year - but mostly from the beaches , particularly night swims . Be careful , do n't swim alone , never swim while drunk , and if you do find yourself being swept out to see , do n't swim back into the current , stay calm , look out for rocks and swim to one side parallel to the shore , until you 're out of the current , then swim back and take your time . Do n't tire yourself . Diving or snorkelling will usually be from a boat ( either a small speedboat from Greg 's place , or some people organise trips on rented local fishing boats ) , and so the biggest immediate risks are : Your boat captain falling asleep and not realising a current has taken you too far to swim back ( a loud whistle is a good idea ! ) Getting hit by a fishing boat that is n't looking where it 's going ( make sure you 're not somewhere boats go ) A surprise current , undertow etc taking you into rocks or similar ( get local advice on where to go and where not to go - and follow it ! ) For scuba diving specifically , be aware that the closest pressure chamber is the opposite side of the continent . Not country , continent ( and there are no direct flights either ! ) . Do n't dive deep enough that decompression sickness is a risk unless you know exactly what you 're doing .
In August most roads should be open . The condition of any given road can never be guaranteed though . You should consult the website of the <URL> for up to date information about what roads are closed . If you click on the <URL> you 'll see the current state . Most roads are open by now , but its been a cold summer so not quite all of them are open . By the end of August there may be some closures ( most likely due to them being washed out ) but most should remain open . If you are unsure , you can ( while in Iceland ) call 1777 for up-to-date information . Do not try to drive on a closed road . If in doubt , call for information . It is astonishing the number of tourists who ignore road-closed signs and get themselves into serious trouble . You do not need a 4x4 on " normal " roads . If you plan to stay on the primary roads you can get by fine without one . However , you should not go on any roads marked in red on <URL> if you are not driving a 4x4 with good ground clearance . Note that you can drive on regular roads all the way to Vatnajökull , the largest glacier in Europe . Just follow the ring road ( route 1 ) along the southern coast . Ca n't miss it . It is about 4-5 hour drive from Reykjavik , assuming no stops . And there are plenty of interesting places to stop along the way .
Given that it 's <URL> , it 's actually kind of hard to find restaurants serving roast lamb , presumably because it 's slow to cook and rather expensive these days ( lamb prices have more than doubled in the last few years ) . Lamb shanks , on the other hand , feature on the menu of virtually every casual eatery in Australia . ( Sunday roast with lamb , by <URL> ) But the best place to look is definitely a pub , aka " hotel " in Australian . The British " Sunday roast " survives in Australia as well and a great many , but by no means all , hotels put on Sunday roasts that often feature lamb . Here 's a <URL> in Sydney from Time Out , although you 'll note that not all are lamb and many are " continental " rather than Australian/British in style , because Sydney 's a bit too hip that . And here 's <URL> of more classically English-style roasts , although again , many seem to focus on beef . " Clubs " , the odd Australian institution of gambling joints thinly disguised as sporting or veterans ' clubs , also frequently offer Sunday roasts , but the quality of the food tends to be disappointing . ( I 'm painting with a broad brush here , and there are exceptions both ways . ) ( Traditional Argentinian Carne al asador , by <URL> ) All that said , the best lamb in Australia I 've had was grilled by my Argentinian ex-boss , and the 2nd best is served at Argentinian joint <URL> in Surrey Hills , Sydney . The process of roasting it crucified on a metal stake looks a bit like something out of a horror film , but hot diggity dog is it good . Probably not quite what you were looking for , but hey , multiculturalism is also very Australian these days ;)
Fortunately from the <URL> there 's already snow base , and they 're making snow too . In addition , it 's at altitude , so there 's an added advantage for colder temperatures . However the start of the season is always weather dependent , and there it 's usually mid/late November . So it all depends on which runs you want to do , and luck , and how late you can leave your trip . Best you can do is keep an eye on the snow report and weather on <URL> and keep any eye on the webcams as well . Their lift page should also start to indicate which runs are open as they get enough of a base . You can also check out the <URL> and note the snowfall for that time of year . Check out weather sites too and see if there 's snow falling on the long rage forecasts . It should give you a decent idea . Finally you can check on instagram or flickr or other photo sharing sites when it opens . If people are taking GPS-tagged photos , you can get an idea of the view from their shots and how beautiful different runs might be .
At different times in history , there has been suggested that a <URL> - between Zambia , Zimbabwe , Botswana and Namibia . However this is generally now not believed to be true , with instead two tripoints quite close to each other marked . Instead , the most is three , known as a tripoint . Amazingly , <URL> around the world . Well known international tripoints include : the Treriksröset tripoint of Finland , Norway and Sweden ( the exact point is in a lake , but a marker is built on that point ) the Vaalserberg of the Netherlands , Germany and Belgium the " Dreiländereck " of Germany , France and Switzerland ( the exact point is in the river and the monument is not on the exact point ) the Triple Frontier of Argentina , Brazil and Paraguay ( Yay , I 've been to this one ! ) the Tres Fronteras of Brazil , Peru and Colombia the Mont Dolent of Italy , France and Switzerland the historic Three Emperors ' Corner of Austro -- Hungarian , Russian and German Empires the historic Piz da las Trais Linguas ( Ortler Alps ) of Austria -- Hungary , the Kingdom of Italy and Switzerland the historic Rock of the Three Kingdoms between the former kingdoms of Galicia , León and Portugal ( nowadays part of the border between Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic ) . the Tossal dels Tres Reis ( ' Peak of the Three Kings ' ) , located where the borders of the ancient Kingdoms of Valencia , Catalonia and Aragon meet For a full list of all three-country tripoints , <URL> .
I 've done a tour of the Salt flats in January 2010 which is the summer down there and even then it got cold at night because it is pretty high up - 3,656 meters ( 11,995 ft ) . I did a tour with a local operator as everybody else did , there are dozens of 4x4s out there every day . The accommodation was indeed very basic , especially on the second night . We started in Uyuni and went south , the first night you stay in a small village but the second night is in the middle of nowhere with just a few basic buildings for tourists to spend the night . I 've been inside some of the other buildings but they all looked pretty much the same . You could mention your concerns to your tour operator and ask for the best accommodation there is , but I do n't think there is much choice . It 's not a place where you wonder around and ask for a room , it seems all pre-arranged . I do remember taking some sort of shower and I think it was at least a bit warm . But I do n't remember a fireplace or heating . There were basic beds with blankets and I do n't think I was cold , ( maybe all the wine helped ) but I can imagine it to be very cold in the winter . Several people in our building had severe problems with altitude sickness and going down was no option , so make sure you take some time before going up there . So , just do n't expect any luxury up there and bring warm clothes .
Emirati immigrations is a federal agency , hence visa rules are the same for all Emirates . The visas are issued for all the country under the name of UAE and not for a single Emirate or under its name .
As far as I can establish from Wiki , there are seven famous stepwells in India : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They look fantastic , I 'll have to get myself to India sometime soon !
end question
