start question
I have sit the TOEFL iBT for several times , Which one can I post : my most recent score or my best score ?
In general , the only way for schools not to receive the complete record of test scores is for you to cancel the test score . Since nowadays the test scores are usually finalized once you agree to get the score , I think the answer is probably no .
It definitely is n't unheard of to have a short resume/CV coming out of undergrad . Also , having just one page is perfectly fine and is actually about what I would expect from most people . If you must fill space , I usually recommend adding course projects or personal projects relevant to your field .
<URL> : Open access comes in two degrees : gratis open access , which is free online access , and libre open access , which is free online access plus some additional usage rights.These additional usage rights are often granted through the use of various specific Creative Commons licenses . Only libre open access is fully compliant with definitions of open access such as the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities . See <URL> for more ideas . As a result , it depends on the contract you agreed to when submitting your article to the open access journal .
I 've never heard this about " Future Work " . Items that you put in this section are simply things that you are currently considering , and someone else who does them should at least cite your original work . However , anyone who beats you to actually doing the work should be able to publish it . If you want to make it absolutely clear that you do not intend to work on this material ( and , you never know , you might end up going back to it later anyway ! ) , simply call the section " Further discussion " or just " Discussion " .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
In the UK I 've always seen it done in reverse chronological order ( most recent first ) . This may vary from country to country . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> to indicate that reverse chronological CVs are the norm . The last link there seems to break it down well , element by element . And for the record , mine is also reverse chronological . Publications : a reverse chronological list is a prerequisite , best presented as an appendix . Include journal articles , books or chapters of books , reports and patents Research experience : in reverse chronological order . Emphasise specialist/technical expertise , IT skills , plus any skills required for the job . including project and people management Education : in reverse chronological order . Focus on higher education onwards . Include awards and scholarships . Include the name of your doctoral supervisor and funding body , if appropriate
I do n't know what the purpose of your writing is , so the answer really depends on that . It sounds like you 're writing some kind of review of prior work ( either as a survey or as part of a paper ) ? In that case , the goal here is not to regurgitate ( in your words or via paraphrase ) what others say . Rather , you should be reading what they say and thinking about it ( and seeing if you 're convinced by it ) . Only after that should you even attempt to describe the work . And when you do so , put all reference material away . If you ca n't describe someone else 's work without referring to it , then you do n't really understand it yet . In this way you 'll ensure that you use your own ideas/thoughts to express what 's gone before .
The exact manner of how you should cite the communication may vary from style to style ( often the date is included ) , but it 's entirely reasonable to cite such a communication in a paper or thesis . Typically this is referred to as a Personal Communication . Obviously , wherever possible , you should look for information in published sources , but where this is not possible citing such a personal communication will suffice . From memory , I think there might be one in my own thesis . A specific detail of an experimental method used in a published article was not discussed , but I thought it relevant to my argument so I contacted the author to get the information I needed . Edit : Typically personal communications should not be included in the reference list as they are not evidence that can be readily recovered by anybody reading your work . This is made explicit in several prominent styles ( e.g. , Harvard , Chicago , APA ) .
Send your best one . GRE is typically used simply as a filter and including your lower score will probably hurt you more than it helps .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
It looks totally normal to hand in the letter from the main supervisor instead of the co-supervisor . If you need a second letter , ask someone from another project . I would not advise to hand in two letters from the same project anyway , it looks as if you have nothing else to offer .
This really depends on your audience . At a department colloquium , I assume very little background , probably an undergrad degree in math , but not even an undergrad class in my research area . Here the audience will often be smart , but ignorant of the relevant background . At a research seminar with lots of undergrad and/or masters students , I still do n't assume much background , maybe an undergrad class in the area , but even then I " remind " the audience of important information they " should " know . At a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers I assume more , but even here I usually do n't assume that they 're familiar with the problem or the relevant literature or techniques . A conference special session ( or minisymposium ) is similar to a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers . Here I often expect that much of the audience is familiar with the background and the techniques , but I still usually review them at least briefly . I 've never gotten complaints about giving too much background and context . I never assume the audience has read any of my papers . I typically view my talks ( at least in part ) as advertisements for my papers . The audience will never want to read my paper if they do n't see why it 's important ( so that 's my job during the talk ) . For those few that already want to read the paper , I hope they leave my talk with an outline of the paper , which will make it easier to read . Any time you 're talking to an audience with varied background , it 's good to briefly describe the key definitions . If you can do this quickly , perhaps only verbally , you do n't bore those who already know , and you give the rest a fighting chance to keep up .
I will take a somewhat different view from @jakebeal 's answer . The primary question is : when did you work on the paper ? Did you do all of the work while you were a thesis student , and then the paper has slowly made its way through the system ? Or did you actively work on it as part of your new job ? Did you use institutional resources from your new position to do any part of the paper ? If the answer to the latter is no , then you should only list the old institution in the actual affiliations , and then list your new job as a " present address " , if you so choose . If you worked on the paper as part of your new job ( beyond rote submission and minor edits ) , then you should list both workplaces as " active " affiliations .
One problem you will need to think about is if you aim for a research job within earth Sciences of a more technical job . The latter may be easier because your knowledge is certainly in demand . The former will be more difficult since you lack an Earth Science background . Note that I do not say impossible . Will you compete . The answer is definitely not an easy no . But , the position you will be looking for will need to be heavy on , for example , signal processing to make you of interest . Usually working on data is followed by interpretations of the data in terms of Earth Science applications . You will of course have a definite disadvantage there . Having some documented understanding of Earth Sciences will be beneficial . I would encourage you to find a meeting where you could meet specialists and discuss opportunities and also just see what is done out there . If you are in the US then attending the AGU ( American Geophysical Union ) Fall Meeting in San Francisco ( December ) would be a good option . In Europe the EGU ( European Geophysical Union ) meeting in Vienna ( April ) will be good . There are also more specialized meeting on Remote Sensing . A good way in could be to strike up collaborations where your expertise adds to the mix . Building sensors . The remote sensing sensors are built by electronics experts such as yourself and not by earth Scientists within the earth Science community ( departments ) . Earth Scientists will provide input to what specs a sensor would need but that is usually the dividing line . So the answer to the possibilities lies outside Earth Science , you most likely would be looking at space agencies or physics departments . On the whole , I would say that your expertise is valued in Earth Science but the total lack of documented knowledge in the subject ( s ) will make the opportunities smaller . I need to add that Earth Science , in its widest sense is a very broad and covers many different departments/subjects which is why trying to find some persons with research profiles that attract you a good venture .
Professors are really ( really ) busy . Most likely he simply did not have time yet to reply to your email . Or maybe he is at a conference and does not have access to the previous two letters on his office computer . He will probably reply to your message later . To get his recommendation letter quickly the best thing you can do is make it as easy for him as possible . Because you already have two of his letters I suggest you write your own new recommendation letter based on these two , send it to him by email , and ask him to sign it . This is quite common , at least in the different labs in the UK and France where I have worked : many professors ask students to write their own letter , after which they may make a few changes and sign it . This saves them lots of time . Also , make sure to let him know when your deadline is so he understands the urgency .
Why not write an email to your advisor with your concerns ? Women are not the only ones with this problem . Those fast-talkers maybe do n't even realize they are leaving you out . Here is a good book . Quiet : The Power of Introverts in a World That Ca n't Stop Talking , by Susan Cain It may help you understand your situation . But it 's those other guys who need to read it , and probably wo n't . When you get to a software company , it may get better . At least if it is large enough to have managers who are not merely former programmers who were promoted . One can hope that those with management training know about these things : The one with the loudest voice may not be the one with the best idea . And there are management practices that can make the best of all workers , whether they are fast-talkers or timid wall-flowers .
You can thank whomever you want in the acknowledgments of your thesis , but there may be consequences that you have to live with . In my opinion it is a bad idea to admit to illegal activity in a formal document like this . Once you write that , you can not unwrite it : it will be archived for the rest of your career . I do n't really think you 'd get in any trouble directly , but by doing so you 're advertising the fact that you are willing to break rules that you do n't like and do so entirely openly . I think that a lot of potential employers prefer employees who when they break the rules for a good reason , do so more quietly . I also do n't really see what you 're gaining by doing this . A thesis acknowledgment is not a step toward legal free downloading of texts . I happen to agree with you that " a way to make them legal should be found " . One way I work towards this is that I make all of my lecture notes -- some of which are very close to being textbooks -- freely available on the internet . Whenever I have spoken with publishing companies , I mention at the first meeting my requirement that my material be made freely available on the internet . To my surprise , they have not walked out of the room . I also have largely stopped assigning expensive required texts . In summary : an acknowledgment to the providers of illegal content is a microscopic flouting of the establishment , not a helpful act . I recommend that you think a bit more carefully about what you can do to actually improve the situation .
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
As you 've described it , this sounds rather odd . Reviewers are under no obligation to accept a paper to review , so to accept one and then submit what sounds from your description like a complete cop-out is strange behaviour . It 's also a bit odd for the editor to send you completely uninformative comments . It 's possible that they genuinely did write a review , but that the text has been copied mistakenly , either by the reviewer or by the editor . It might therefore be worth sending a brief email to the editor to enquire about this review . Something along the lines of : " Thank you for consideration of our paper . In the copy that I received one of the reviews does not contain any comments , only text from our paper . I just wanted to double-check that the correct version has been sent through , in order to make sure that I can respond effectively to all of the reviewers . " Be very polite , and make sure you phrase it as a request for clarification , rather than a complaint . If it turns out it was their genuine review , you are of course allowed to care - it 's a bit frustrating if one of the reviewers has not fulfilled their role properly . But it 's not a big deal , and there 's not much that you can or should do about it . Some journals only get comments from two reviewers anyway , so just think of it that way and ignore the third .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
end question
start question
What prevents reviewers from providing biased and very negative reviews ?
The term competitors does not really describe the relationship between different scientists in the same field . Of course there is some competition for grants or such , or even to put one 's name in a new result , but some aspects are deeply different : A publication in your field is a good thing , even if it 's not from yourself . It makes your area important , and alive . It 's actually very important when it comes to applying for grants . You can not benefit from someone else 's work by writing negative reviews . There is no way to simply slow down publication of one paper in order to publish the result first . A rejected paper will not slow down the " competitors " research . Sure they will have to improve it and submit it elsewhere , but this takes a marginal time compared to the research process itself . Dishonest reviews are clearly dangerous , as some people will see your review with your name on it ( I 'm thinking of other reviewers on such systems as Easychair ) . These people might very well be the ones reviewing your grant application a few weeks later . why would one risk being exposed as dishonest , when anyway there are several reviews for the same paper , and any deep difference should trigger an in-depth investigation by the editor ? The most frequent bias I have seen are review of the form " you should cite those 5 obscure and vaguely related papers all from the same author " , which clearly indicate reviewers in need of citation , but nothing much worse .
As a teacher of graduate-level finance classes , the main writing they are expected to perform are business reports and essays . I find that writing essays is easier for them but it is quite common for students to have challenges writing business reports ( using bullet points properly , using graphics properly , using section headings and very concise writing properly ) . As far as key skills you should be thinking about , the biggest ones are : How to construct a proper argument using academic evidence ( reasonable sources as opposed to some random person 's blog The ability to properly cite the work of others ( related to the point above ) Including counter-arguments in their work ( another extension of the first point ) If all my graduate students had these skills , my life would be much easier .
Generally speaking , you should not put any institution as your affiliation unless you are currently based there , or did the work while you were based there . In this case , unless you did the research while at Linkoping , you should not give Linkoping as your affiliation . See , for example , <URL> . If it helps , it 's worth remembering that the " affiliation " is in many ways an " address " - it evolved out of simply giving an address at which you could be contacted , and some journals still refer to it this way . It 's not unknown in some fields for independent researchers to give their home address , but it 's perhaps more common just to say " independent " . If you have no current affiliation , you can simply say " Independent researcher " , or similar , and leave it at that ( adding an email address is good , if not asked for elsewhere in the paper ) .
Answer : Although PRISMA does not require such a protocol , Cochrane Handbook does . However , it too does not " necessitate " it , but encourages it ( at least to my understanding ) . Check out the Chapter 7 of the Part 2 of this online Handbook : <URL>
First and foremost , ask the editor . Sometimes space limits are hard , and sometimes they are soft , and you often ca n't tell the real story just by reading the journal 's stated guidelines . If the limits are soft , you do n't really have a problem . Nevertheless , do n't get verbose : the reviewer probable did n't just say " Give more introductory material , " they probably pointed at specific types of shortcomings in your current material . Focused improvement of material may not actually take much length at all . If the limits are hard , then begin by writing as though the limits were soft . I always find it best to start by writing the paper they way you want to write it , and then figuring out how best to reduce . If you start by worrying too much about length , then you are likely to cut the wrong parts , because you ca n't see the structure of the whole while you are writing . Once you 've got a paper that 's too long , then <URL> .
At my university ( Bath ) , prestigious university scholarships are awarded through a competition that has its first rounds of evaluations in January , so we recommend submitting December of the year before . However , in the UK and Europe generally much research is funded by grants from research councils and industry which may be awarded at any time . These studentships are on particular topics and will be advertised on relevant mailing lists and sites like <URL> . In addition , often multiple universities offer the same top students studentships , so occasionally funding gets returned and reoffered to a new applicant . Application times for American academic positions ( both faculty and postgraduate ) seem to be more structured , at least in my experience . At MIT they said they had at least 120-150 fully-qualified applicants for the 30 slots they had the year I was lucky enough to get in ( note : this means getting rejected does NOT necessarily mean you were n't good enough to get in ! ) So I do n't think there is any chance they would look at someone who missed their application deadline if they applied late . But I could be wrong , and certainly it might be different at smaller universities . In general though I 'd recommend spending the time between now &amp; the next deadline making yourself a better candidate , e.g. by publishing , working in a lab , or helping out with a conference or even just getting a job . Even if you put in another application this year , this is still good advice in case you reapply for next year .
Your situation is not in any way plagiarism , but rather a common and ordinary case of independent reinvention . There is no need to have the other person as a co-author or anything like that : just cite their model as related prior work , explain how yours is similar and different , and learn from it so that you can do the best you can with your own work .
I think that you have to consider and balance , at the very least , the following aspects : Your overall career goals . I would argue that career-wise every researcher wants ( and has to ) establish themselves as an expert , if not in a discipline , in a particular area ( s ) of research . With that in mind , it seems pretty obvious to me that sharing your research is much more beneficial then hoarding it . The one potential exception to this approach is noted in my next point . Your current research ( that is , particular study 's ) goals and priorities . If your current research has a potential to be commercialized and you have desire to deal with that and you have financial means ( or your institution 's support ) to do so ( as you know , patenting is not cheap , and , as I imagine , patenting in such a complex field , as computational biology , is doubly so ) , then you might consider taking this route ( should be decided on a case by case basis ) . Impact on potential collaboration . Modern research in many , if not most , fields is highly collaborative . Thus , your decision to significantly limit sharing research results and other related information will most likely make you an unattractive candidate for participating in upcoming collaborative research studies and , therefore , will most likely have a serious negative impact on your future research portfolio and , consequently , research career .
Being editor of a journal where authors can provide preferred and non-preferred reviewers , I can provide some " inside " thoughts on the subject based on what has happened in " my " journal . Note that it is possible to suggest names for review but also provide names which are not preferred . The latter can be because of a scientific disagreement , personal issues or whatever . Such suggestions appear but not often and we usually follow the suggestions ( not that we have to ! ) . When it comes to the preferred or suggested reviewers , I have been tempted to use such reviewers on occasion when it has been hard to identify reviewers directly . Sometimes because the topic is local and where it would make sense to have local input . In these cases , I can not remember a single reasonable review that has come out of such reviewers . This can be for several reasons but most often the review is a close colleague who might have an incentive to help the author . In some cases the preferred names have been very senior scientists who , I am afraid , has lost touch with the subject and provide poor and in some cases almost non-existent reviews . Out of all immediate " Accept " review recommendations I get , the vast majority have come from these reviewers . So , I not longer trust these names and avoid them at all costs unless I personally know or know of the reviewer and his or her good reputation . In addition to what I just describe , I also must state that it is often the weakest manuscripts that have listed several suggestions . This can be identified by the disparate review results , sometimes one accept ( by the suggested reviewer ) and one reject . Now , in principle , there is nothing wrong with suggesting reviewers , I have done so myself when being requested . I have then as a principle gone for established and well renowned names in the community . The problem lies in suggesting names for a purpose other than to get a fair and objective review . It is clear that the system can and is abused and since I became Editor-in-Chief , I have come to rely less and less on these suggestions and now mostly look upon them with suspicion and make selections from my own understanding of the field and investigations into the subject literature . The best suggestion , I can provide is to not avoid mentioning names but pick names that in your opinion can provide good constructive critique on your work ( and not just favorable ) . A note on why you have selected names as preferred or non-preferred would greatly help as well since it puts your choice in a perspective .
There is no reason that you need to put anything into the acknowledgements section until it is accepted and you are preparing the camera-ready version . It is perhaps the only portion of a paper 's text that ca n't really be affected by peer review ( unless you do something remarkably unusual ) . Furthermore , some acknowledgements must always be left our in order to maintain double-blind review : for example , funding should be acknowledged in the final document , but grant information breaks blinding . Thus , I would recommend that you treat acknowledgements just like you treat author information : blank it for blind review , and add it in for the camera-ready after acceptance .
First , note that a course on OOP is probably not the same as a course just on C++ . The C++ language was designed by Stroustrup to support the developer in multiple styles of programming , including OO . C++ today has become such a huge and complex language , moreover one for which which professional programming style has significantly evolved since the 98 standard . For example , its support for and take-up of functional programming has grown significantly . I 'm assuming you want to do well on the course , as opposed to simply learning skills . Now , it 's a long while since I 've had a look at Deitel and Deitel , and I ca n't say I 've good memories of it . However , hopefully the book is recommended because does take an approach supporting the OOP of the course and the subset of C++ you are expected to learn on the course . So go ahead and get the book . Having said that , if you really want to learn C++ itself well enough to be able to use it as a professional , be prepared to buy a few more books and put in a lot more work after you 've done this introductory course .
You may get the best response by using informal channels . If you know the managing editor of the journal ( my field is small enough that I often do ) , you might send an informal email , or even just express your concern in person . As Ben Norris mentioned , the key is that you communicate in a calm , rational , and deliberative way .
When I was teaching at a German university and we received course feedback , we were required to inform the students about the feedback . So while the feedback was anonymously given by each student ( online ) , the students should get general feedback on how the course was evaluated . For some that meant simply sending the questionnaire summary to the students , but many discussed the evaluation in the last lecture . For me it made sense to discuss the results : You get an opportunity to thank the students for positive feedback . You get an opportunity to clarify contradicting or unclear feedback ( e.g. , talks to fast vs. talks to slow ) . You can also address ' below the belt ' feedback . I think you can say anything if you do it with respect . And giving feedback -- even highly critical feedback -- with respect is something that students should learn , if only to prevent huge problems in the future where a lack of respect is ... less tolerated . You can show students how to constructively deal with feedback ( if you can deal with feedback ) . I think you should both take the feedback serious and add some humor ( i.e. , take yourself lightly but the job seriously ) . Otherwise , you are not only alienating the current students but also future students . You can get feedback in the very last lecture . In some courses , the feedback was requested during the phase with the highest stress levels . Students only saw what they had learned and how they had benefited later .
In my opinion and experience , it is relatively rare for an MSc thesis to yield truly original research resulting in a paper . The primary goal of a MSc thesis is to teach you important research skills : come up with a general idea of what to do , researching literature , coming up with a specific question that you want to address , performing research ( computations , fieldwork , lab experiments ) , and finally writing it down in a thesis . If you successfully complete this cycle , I think your MSc thesis is a success . If the thesis , after some editing , is original enough to end up as a journal paper this is a big bonus .
If you 're getting a degree in Argentina , then you should be concerned about the eligibility/mapping of the actual degree , not on the ECTS of individual courses . ECTS of individual courses would apply if you want to get a degree in EU but have some of your earlier courses of an unfinished degree to count towards that new degree ; However , if you want to continue studies in , say , a masters programme then you 'd enroll based on your Licentiate degree as whole , and none of the courses would be spearately treated . In any case , if you need ' proper ECTS conversion ' , then you 'll most likely need an official statement about that from the institution giving you the degree , not anyone else .
You should certainly cite paper A in any case . One way this is commonly handled : state your Lemma B. 1 and give the complete proof . At the beginning of the proof , write something like " This closely follows the proof of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] . " Now your paper is self-contained and you have given appropriate credit . It is fine if your proof is similar in structure to theirs ; in some ways this is better , because a reader who looks at both will more easily be able to see the similarities and differences . But do not simply copy and paste their proof and change the necessary words . Your proof should be your words , even if it is from their ideas . Or , state your Lemma B. 1 , but instead of giving a complete proof , say " The proof is very similar to that of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] " . This saves space but will be more annoying to the reader , who in order to check your result will have to find the paper [ A ] and read through the proof , adapting it to prove B. 1 instead of A. 1 . ( The referee may be similarly annoyed . ) Some people would omit the statement of Lemma B. 1 altogether , and when they need to use it , would say " By a slight modification of the proof of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] , we have blah blah blah ... " . This is even more annoying . Worst of all is to just say " By Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] , we have blah blah blah " where Lemma A. 1 claims something different from ( and not obviously implying ) the statement you want .
When reading reviewer feedback , I generally divide things up into five mental categories ( sorted from best to worst ) : Praise : It feels really good when a reviewer " gets " a paper . Little stuff : Anything that can be cleaned up easily , like typos and grammar failures , dropped minus signs , mislabeled figures . Suggestions for improvement : Things that are legitimate issues , but are reasonable to push off to future work if necessary . Legitimate complaints : This is where a reviewer points out actual significant problems with one 's work . If you were unaware of them before , or thought they were less important than the reviewer explains them to be , then this can really sting , but it 's a reasonable judgement . <URL> : This is the stuff that really burns , when a reviewer seems to have an personal agenda or grudge and is taking it out on your paper . A recent example I encountered included the phrase : " All the hard questions are systematically discarded . " What 's very difficult , as an author , is distinguishing between suggestions for improvement , legitimate complaints , and unfair reviewing . This is particularly true when things are presented harshly : I find a major difference between directness ( which raises a clear issue about the science ) and harshness ( which might or might not be clear , but is presented with a side-dish of personal attack ) . However , especially when it comes to things where you have feelings like " but it 's obvious ! " or " but we already addressed that ! " or " they must not have read the paper carefully ! " , there is usually a legitimate difference of viewpoint , which it 's important to figure out how to overcome . That 's why I always read feedback more than once , at at least a couple of days separation . The first reading lets you see how much the review is praise vs. little stuff vs. the other three categories . At that point , though , you 're generally too emotionally involved and reacting ( particularly if you got a rejection ) to distinguish which category the issues raised by the reviewers actually fall into . A couple of days distance , though , and I find it much more possible to parse out the different strands of negativity , figuring out which are legitimate , which are unfair , and which are more appropriate to push off to address other papers .
Format means that there should be a full reference in the bibliography ( at the and of the article , chapter or book ; or sometimes in the footnote ) . In case if it is missing , you can use <URL> with then in the options set date range to .
In general , the program chairs want to know early which papers should be rejected directly without a rebuttal . To this end , the reviewers provide preliminary decisions with their review . These preliminary decisions are often changed later , based on the additional clarifications from the rebuttal . The preliminary decisions are usually not visible for the authors , but this can vary across specific conferences .
Short answer : the editor will continue to try and find other suitable reviewers , sending them invitations and waiting for replies . At some point , they may come back to you and ask you to suggest names ( additional names , if you had already given some when you originally submitted the paper ) . It can happen that an editor has a hard time finding suitable reviewers that accept to review a manuscript . There are a few factors in play , such as : the journal is not well-know ; the editor is new , or not well-know in the field , or does not have a very good network ; the research reported is atypical , in a very narrow subfield , or joins different areas ( so that no one reviewer feels confident in accepting ) the elements sent by the editor ( title and abstract ) are rather boring or tend to confuse the potential reviewers Note that most of these factors do not reflect badly on the manuscript , so there is no need to feel bad about it . The editor is likely to continue his search of reviewers . I see two other options that the editor could choose from , but I judge them as rather unlikely : Evaluate the manuscript himself , and make a decision based on his own review . After all , it 's his job , and the reviewers ' role is only to help the editor reach a decision . Refer the manuscript to another editor , or to the editorial board , so they can make a decision on it . Finally , note that it may take quite some time to find suitable ( and willing ) reviewers . In the case of one paper of mine , it took the editor 3 months to find adequate reviewers , and that was actually for a prestigious journal . However , the paper was atypical enough ( and the research was quite novel ) that many potential reviewers did not feel able to review it adequately . ( And in case you wonder , it was accepted on the first try , once the editor found reviewers . ) Edit ( regarding your comment ) : my advice is do n't retract your submission , unless you think it 's the journal 's fault ( unwilling editor or unknown journal ) . I know it 's tempting ! But especially if your work is multidisciplinary , it will take time to find reviewers , even if you submit it to another journal . Thus , better let the current submission process go to its end .
end question
start question
What is a good length for the statement of purpose in a U.S. PhD application ?
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
I do n't know if it 's legal ( it could depend on what counts as fair use , for example ) , but I would n't be concerned . I do n't see any likelihood that this will harm you . It 's possible that they asked the journal for permission to reprint the abstract , but I 'd guess they just grabbed it from the web . The " journalists obtained a quote " stuff may be intended to make it look like a press release or news article , rather than a reprinted abstract . One positive side effect is that this makes it clear that the publisher is quoting you describing your work , rather than that you chose to publish an abstract in this venue . I do n't know why the publisher would compile these volumes . They have no academic value whatsoever , but it 's easy to speculate about motives : If these volumes are assembled by programs scraping the web , then the publisher only needs to sell a handful of them to make a profit . With thousands of volumes available , they can presumably find a few suckers who will pay for one , or perhaps even careless librarians they can sell subscriptions to . Maybe the volumes are used for content farming , to try to mimic genuine content and thereby attract web searchers ( so the publisher can sell ads or otherwise exploit these visits ) . They might also be used to create the illusion of academic respectability for the publisher , by creating a big catalog full of books that look reasonable at first glance ( but not at second glance ) . It could be someone who is genuinely trying to perform a useful service and simply does n't recognize how useless this is . If this bothers you , you could bring it to the attention of your publisher . If they did n't authorize the use of the abstract , then they 'll decide whether they can or should do anything about it .
There is no single purpose of the viva , but broadly speaking it tests a student 's ability to act like a researcher . It is not easy to define what does " being a researcher " mean , but the list of skills required definitely includes such things as : understanding the importance of the problem and its place in a wide picture of researchchoice of appropriate method to solve the problem ability to find a sound , elegant and technically accurate solution ability to communicate the solution for different audiences Many undergraduate assessments only test skill 3 from the list and ( partly ) skill 2 . When students prepare a coursework or sit an exam , they always communicate their results in a certain style , typically in writing , and written for the single reader : the lecturer running the module . Unlike a typical assessment , the format of viva allows three-way communication between the student , the text of thesis , and the readers / examiners . The opportunity to ask student a question about the text changes the game completely for all parties . For the student , the task is not only to write and present a text with the solution , but also to understand the solution , the questions which may be marginally connected with the topic of the text -- a & laquo ; big picture & raquo ; . For examiners , the goal is not only to check the formal correctness of the arguments , but also to make sure the student can freely use these arguments , and apply them to problems within the big picture . Answering your specific question : it does not matter , what does the supervisor know . In viva , you , as a researcher , present the thesis . Your skill to be solely responsible for the text you produced is what is tested , not the text per se . It is you , who should focus the examiners on the important parts of your thesis . Through the way how you present the research , you should be able to create a right context , and to attract the attention to the strongest parts of your thesis . Success in this part will invite comfortable questions ; failure will result in a number of random questions distributed all over your thesis , which you 'll have to answer . If you feel really uncomfortable talking about ( some ) part of your thesis , you possibly should ask yourself , why this topic is still a part of your thesis in the first place .
Depending on how the conference is organized , the duties of a chair before the session can include : Selecting the abstracts that will be presented within a given session . Organizing the abstracts in the order of presentation . Transferring unused abstracts to other sessions ( where possible ) . Advertising to solicit contributions . During the session , the goals of the chair can include : To introduce the speaker To ensure time constraints are being adhered to To moderate a question-and-answer session following the talk If other questions have not been asked , to offer questions of her own . The organizer of a session may or may not be the chair of the session . In larger conferences , in which you have many parallel sessions ( some have 50 to 60 or more run simultaneously ) , it is entirely impractical to have a meeting organizer chair every session . For smaller conferences , however , this is done . In such cases , though , the organizer of the session is still called the " chair " of the session . It is also possible , at some conferences , that the organizer is unable to attend the session , as a result of illness or conflicts , for instance . In such cases , an " emergency " chair is appointed to run the session . ( I had to serve in such a capacity at the most recent conference I attended . )
As the name implies , a statement of purpose should be forward-looking as much as possible . The " biographical " element of a statement of purpose should be included only to the extent that it helps to explain what you want to do as a graduate student . You most certainly do not want to start off with recollections of early childhood and the first time you realized you want to be a researcher . Instead , spend your efforts explaining why you want to be a graduate student in the department to which you 're applying . You should make specific reference to how your research will fit into the department 's interests . ( For instance , do n't propose a project in area X if the department does n't have a specialist in X. ) If you 're in a field where the advisor selection is made after matriculation , then you likely want to present a somewhat broader profile . If you show interest in only one professor 's work , then you are dependent on the decision of that single advisor ( who may or may not be on the admissions committee ! ) .
Yes . Definitely . This gives the reader an indication of how your work fits into the larger body of research in the field . Without references , it may appear that you are working in an area that is so obscure that nobody cares about it .
If it 's your opinion that your readers wo n't have time to read your whole document , you might want to consider adding an executive summary at the top of your document . This would take the form of a short paragraph which essentially includes all the key phrases or sentences that you would otherwise have highlighted in bold font throughout your document . If you make your summary pithy , punchy and exciting , you are more likely to entice your reader to read through the remainder of the document . One might indeed say that highlighting key phrases throughout your summary is a touch lazy . I wrote a similar document and went through and highlighted key phrases , just as you are considering . Then I wrote an executive summary section as the first paragraph , reusing or paraphrasing the key points . I removed the text formatting in the main text body , rewriting the phrases relating to the key points given in the summary to avoid repeating them word for word . To my mind , the result looked more professional and read much better .
In my opinion ( and three years working in the admission committee ) , it 's less about the tone but the arguments and evidences you cite in the statement . For tone , keep it overall professional and formal , do not use slang and do not write to them as if they 're your high school friends . Write as if you 're writing to a teacher you respect . For your arguments and evidences , I 'd suggest focusing on : A certain story and experience that gave you the epiphany , inspiration , or determination to pursue this study/career . Stay true to the experience and avoid using too many tacky expressions/cliches . Combination of training and past experience that have made you a unique and valuable member of the institute and field of study . Career aspiration with specific goals in mind . For instance , how would the degrees or positions enable you to achieve new goals . While the goals and aims can be of personal level , it 's important that you can also integrate your own goals into a larger system ( like the field of study , or the larger entities your field serves ) as well . The decision of whether to include some personality traits of one self is really situation-dependent . But if you want to let the committee know that you 're a " good communicator , " remember to provide concrete examples as well . Hope this helps and good luck ! ... the answers there kinda encourage to use informal tone . What do you think ? To me , being " informal " can mean , among many things , use of slang , figures of speech , and conversation-like writing style . Some of these do add color to the personal statement but I 'm reluctant to endorse the statement that one should go informally without clearly listing what kind of informal speeches are to be used . Even within figures of speech , some are more acceptable than others in a personal statement . " Deer in headlight " may be fine ; " a kick in the balls " is probably not . I 'd suggest , as I have said , do n't get bogged down by the tone . Be your polite and eager self , and make a case on the three points to persuade the committee members . Treat them like someone you respect and it should be fine .
This should not be a statement about your personal diversity ( " I am from Africa " ) , but rather a statement about how you can contribute to creating a diverse academic community , and how you can help students from diverse backgrounds succeed at the university . As Noah Snyder rightly points out in the comments , your personal diversity would be an obvious thing to include here with a discussion of how that will help you further the goal of attracting and retaining students from diverse backgrounds . If you have no relevant personal experiences , then this should be a discussion of how you plan to further the university 's goal of attracting and retaining students from diverse backgrounds . UC San Diego , which requires such a statement , maintains a webpage describing what should be included . The entire page can be found <URL> . A few bullet points from their document : What is the Purpose of a Contributions to Diversity Statement ? The purpose of the statement is to identify candidates who have professional skills , experience , and/or willingness to engage in activities that would enhance campus diversity and equity efforts . Are there any guidelines for writing a statement ? The Contributions to Diversity Statement should describe your past experience , activities and future plans to advance diversity , equity and inclusion , in alignment with UC San Diego 's mission to reflect the diversity of California and to meet the educational needs and interests of its diverse population . Some faculty candidates may not have substantial past activities . If that is the case , we recommend focusing on future plans in your statement . A more developed and substantial plan is expected for senior candidates . As candidates may not have particular past experiences , there is also some advice on " planned activities : " Planned Activities : The first step is to gather information on activities you would like to pursue while at UC San Diego and how they might fit into the research area , department , campus , or national context . You may consider but are not restricted to current or ongoing campus activities . For each proposed activity you include , describe the role you envision having and what you would like to accomplish in the next two to five years . Who would you like to engage in your efforts , and how would you plan to engage them ? Be as specific as possible , but realistic in terms of your effort and time commitment . In addition to the quotes above they have more information , including several example statements , and additional resources . They also have a section on how such statement are considered . Of course , all of this is specific to UCSD , but I imagine it generalizes to other institutions reasonably well .
There are several reasons to aim for good grades : You will probably want either a job or graduate school admission after graduating . The better your grades , the easier it is going to be and the more choices you will have . You are in college to learn . Why waste your time and the college place on not doing your best ? Think about those prerequisites . If you only just make the grade to go into the next class in a sequence , you may not be able to keep up and may fail some of the later classes .
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
Writing grant proposals with your supervisors is great experience and good for your career . Writing in partnership with more experienced researchers is a great to to get " apprenticeship " experience and to become introduced to key funding agencies , program managers , and the expectations and practices in interacting with them . Moreover , even if you move on before the grant is funded , you may find yourself able to work on the project via a subcontract to your new institution or else to help supervise students on the project from afar ( I certainly had this experience ) . Thus , if there is a good opportunity for doing collaborating with your supervisors on grant-writing , I highly advise doing so .
My feeling is that whether including a link is a good idea or a bad idea depends on how you are using it . A statement of purpose should be a generally self-contained document . Thus : If your statement of purpose is difficult to fully comprehend without following the link , it would be in a problem ( whether in computer science or elsewhere ) If the statement of purpose is complete without the link , however , and the link is essentially an faster alternative to googling for more information , then I would find it a useful courtesy to the reader .
I do n't think there can be any studies to confirm or deny something like that , simply because neither " good teacher " nor " good researcher " can be quantified objectively without bias , and in the absence of that , how can you compare ? But qualitatively , I think the conclusion naturally follows in most cases - both require one to be enthusiastic about their subject in the first place , and require a certain depth of comprehension before they can either publish their results or interact with inquisitive students successfully !
Virtually everyone gets rejected from at least one of the places they apply to . I have never heard of anyone who got through the process without getting rejected somewhere . I even got rejected from several places that were lower ranked than the ones I did get in to ! So no , one single rejection is not a sign that you are applying to the wrong level of universities . In fact , you should probably expect more rejections . Depending on the subject there can be 5-10 qualified applicants for each spot , so lots of good candidates are rejected every year . If you discussed what universities to apply to with the professors writing your recommendation letters , you are probably applying to universities of the right " level " . The sheer number of applications means that you will get some rejections anyway . With that said : if your are really set on graduate school , it is a good idea to apply to a wide range of schools on different levels .
In my university back in Mexico , they had something similar , if professors want to get ahead ( income , professional , etc ) they had to an additional degree ( Masters , PhD ) I think that if you do not have the motivation , you 'll have a lot of problems , doing a PhD is already a taxing endeavor , in the sense that many times you 'll start wondering wether this was a good idea or not . As in many things in life , if you do this because you are made to ( like students that go to college because their parents want to ) you 'll have lots of resentment . However , not all is lost , you can try looking for something you are really passionate about , and then try to do a PhD on that .
The person 's title in this case is ( almost always ) Dr , so " Dear Dr Last-name " would be the standard salutation for a first correspondence . If they sign their reply with their first name , then you can consider yourself welcome to write " Dear First-name " in future . Academics in the UK are very used to receiving email addressing them as Professor , so it 's not a big problem if you do this , but there is probably a slight increase in the chance that they might view your email as spam ( I say this because the overwhelming majority of emails I get which address me as Professor are at least somewhat spammy ) . If someone 's title is Professor , this will always be listed on the university website , so if you 've done your research and found out that they are not a professor , it 's probably best to use Dr.
Do n't make anyone do extra work . They may not want to ( or easily be able to ) open a different file to find the reference . Give up part ( 1/4th ? ) of a page for references . Do n't cram text in the main body , but references could be written with a ( slightly ) smaller/tighter font size/spacing if necessary .
I 've heard that I should apply as if I 'm pursuing an experimental physics track , though , because it 's less competitive , and then transition towards a theory group once admitted . Is this sound advice ? Yes , it is , in general . A very high percentage of people applying to physics PhD programs say that they want to do theory , especially particle theory , but in reality only a very small percentage of grad students end up doing theory . However , the number of people saying they want to do condensed matter theory is probably relatively small , so the usual advice may not apply to you if you 're applying to schools that have a strong , established program in condensed matter theory . Still , I am wary about misrepresenting myself and also concerned about getting stuck in a path that I do n't intend to be in . Frankly , at this stage you simply have no experience on which to base any such expectations . That 's why nobody really takes statements like this on grad school applications very seriously . That kind of statement is not binding in any way , and I doubt that anyone even remembers it once you start grad school . It may be relevant to your application mainly as an indication of whether you were serious enough about that school to find out what their research areas are . E.g. , if you apply and say you want to do quantum gravity , but nobody at that school does quantum gravity , they 'll probably circular-file your app . What will typically happen to people who think they want to do theory is that they start their graduate coursework , and they find that there 's stiff competition in courses such as field theory and general relativity . If you want to do a thesis in relativity , for example , you probably need to be the top student in the GR class . For condensed matter theory , the relevant course would probably be field theory , since a lot of the same methods are used . I do n't think it 's exactly the same at all universities in the US , but at the grad school I went to , there was this initial sorting process based on performance in coursework , and after that students spent the summer as research assistants , which was a further vetting process . There 's just no way to predict the outcome of this process in advance . As an undergrad , you 're comparing yourself to other undergrads at school A , while as a grad student , you 're comparing yourself to other grad students at school B. Often it 's the experience of moving from being a big fish in a small pond to being just one more fish . That 's how it was for me , at least .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
end question
start question
Is it possible to pursue masters degree in the US university without getting financial back-up from family ?
Universities , and departments , often view Masters degree students as something of a cash-cow , so there are far less funding options than are available to PhD students . That being said , there are a number of options you have before turning to family : There may be a limited number of TA/RAships available to Masters students . The benefits will depend on the university , but will likely include a modest salary , and will possibly include benefits like health insurance or tuition remission . You can work your way through it , viewing tuition as just a major life expense . This of course depends on the local job market . You can take on debt . Many people I know took out student loans in order to pay for their Masters . Whether or not this is desirable and economically justified is another question , but it is always an option .
So is my financial situation going to depend on if I can secure a grant for my research as a postdoc or I should expect to receive a salary ? The question is not getting a grant or getting paid , it is getting paid by the institution you work for or getting your salary from a grant giving institution . How many postdocs do get paid ? ( As far as I know ) All of them . Depending on the country you are talking about it may even be illegal to employ someone without pay . However , ( as @virmaior pointed out ) there are some " postdocs " in Japan that are not paid and have no work requirements . At least in Europe and the US this is not common and in most cases this is probably a bad idea for someone looking for a regular postdoc position ( see my comment below ) . How likely is the success in either ways ? That depends on your field , the quality of your work , ... . We can not answer that but you can talk to your peers / supervisor about the job market to get an idea . [ as a postdoc ] I do not have to pay academic fees or any other fees to a university Right . One general remark : If you are not not getting a ( paid ) postdoc position or a grant you should try to find a job in the industry anyway . Finding a more senior position is usually much harder than finding a postdoc position .
Neuroscience is interdisciplinary ! To give you an idea , the neuroscience faculty at my institution ( University of S. FL. , RU/VH university ) generally have Ph.D. in : Pharmacology Molecular Biology Biophysics Biochemistry None of them are an M.D. so you have to ask where would medicine come in useful ? Ph.D. 's do not generally interact with patients , perform medical procedures or do anything an MD is qualified to do ( with respect to humans ) . Being said , you can have a dual MD/PhD where for example your MD is specialized health science and technology , and your PhD is specialized neuroscience . I think that for neuroscience research involving humans such as drug trials , behavioral neuroscience , etc. this is a preferred route . Some neuroscientists are then experts in computational studies as opposed to wet lab , where a data science background is helpful . Some related publications by our faculty : Hevers W , Hadley SH , Lddens H and Amin J. Ketamine but not PCP selectively modulates cerebellar GABAA receptors containing a6 and d subunits J. Neuroscience . 28 ( 20 ) : 5383-5393 , 2008 . Segers LS , Nuding SC , Ott MM , Dean JB , Bolser DC , O'Connor R , Morris KF , Lindsey BG . Peripheral chemoreceptors tune inspiratory drive via tonic expiratory neuron hubs in the medullary ventral respiratory column network . Journal of Neurophysiology . 113 : 352-368 , 2015 . <URL> At least with respect to reference one , the methods state results were obtained from rats/mice , from reference two they collected data from adult cats . You can see that an MD or medical degree is n't necessarily required for a career in neuroscience . Some career postings I can see give preference to those who know some surgical procedures ( not just for humans ) , but at the entry level I 'm seeing 3yrs postdoc experience on top of the related PhD , to which you do n't have to be embroiled in clinical decision-making and large amounts of blood ( maybe on mice , etc. ) , publication record , etc. . For your intended program , you 'll largely want to refer to your university of choice , mind you curriculum and requirements can largely vary by institution !
The proportion of " homegrown " to " ... imported ? " PhDs varies depending on your discipline , but at the science end of things ( I 'm in computer science , but know plenty of mathematicians and also majored in chemistry as an undergraduate ) it 's quite international . Apart from pathological cases ( known " bad " universities , or otherwise extremely dubious universities ) , where you got your PhD is not particularly important . As Jeromy says in another answer , international experience is definitely viewed favourably though . My having done my doctorate overseas has definitely been a boon . The real criteria are performance based ; publications , teaching ( especially awards or other recognition ) and ability to bring in the grant money ! ( That last one in quite important , for better or worse ) . As a recent Doctorate , you 'll mainly need to show that you can conduct quality research . Just for some completely non-statistically-significant stats , my Australian undergrad . chemistry department had about 50 % overseas PhDs , my CS department had more like 90 % overseas PhDs and my maths department had about 50 % too . At my current ( Australian ) department ( CS ) , it 's probably about 70-80 % overseas PhDs ( though that 's a guesstimate at the moment ) , including me . Of course the caveat is , again , this will change from department to department and university to university . Some like to only hire their own graduates , others will never hire their own graduates . Your best course is really to contact the academics offering the jobs , establish a bit of an informal relationship and find out what each position is looking for .
It is common for graduates to jump between communications , electronics , computer science domains . But it is usually not so for something like genetic engineering even though it is considered an interdisciplinary field . Institutions might expect graduation from either of biotechnology , molecular biology , microbiology or biochemistry . This would however be different for fields such as genomics and bioinformatics where institutions do accept CS graduates provided they have a background in areas like data analytics , machine learning , data mining , data science and the like . As this would depend on the eligibility and preference criteria of the institution concerned , it would be better for your to consult with the prospective institution that would offer the program desired .
Is it stupid to go to a university which is ranked around 160 by Times Higher Education for a Master 's degree ? You should consider additional information . First , I recommend deciding what you want to do after getting your master 's degree . Then consider if the degree program you are applying for will help you achieve that goal . If you are not sure , check the program or school website for statistics , or contact the program 's alumni for advice . Since this is the academia stack exchange , let 's assume for the moment you want to continue in academia . In this case , the university 's reputation ( which is correlated with its ranking ) is very important , but the specific program 's reputation is even more important . ( edit : People who know little about you will judge you based on the institution/program where you got your degree , because it is easy for them . ) Working with a well-known faculty member can also have great importance . Certainly rankings will not inform you if you will like living or working at an institution . Finally , normally each time you change institutions the prestige of your new position will decrease .
Publishing In mathematics , most people will judge your research on its merits , not based on your credentials or affiliations . So this is not an issue , if you are able to generate significant results and write them up in a clear way . Seminars I have seen many members of the public regularly attend seminars . I 've never heard of them being kicked out . It 's not an issue . Funding The primary drawback is that you wo n't be paid for your research if you are just doing it in your spare time . Unless you are already independently wealthy , that means you will have relatively little time for research since you need a day job . It is of course possible to get grants to fund your research without being in academia ; there are a number of private entities in the US funded entirely by grants , and many of them include mathematicians . But you said spare time only . Collaboration Another drawback is that you wo n't be in close contact with other researchers by default . It would n't be impossible to establish that contact , but again you must consider whether you will have the time . And people wo n't take you seriously unless you have serious results . Not getting a PhD In mathematics , even more than in other fields , it is almost impossible to make a contribution without spending several years learning what is already known . In principle you could do that without getting a PhD , but why would you ?
In mathematics , some graduate degrees are offered online , but you should be careful . There are real advantages to doing it in person , and most of the schools offering online degrees are not well respected , so if you select a program based on internet advertising , you will probably waste your money without learning very much or ending up with a valuable credential . ( It 's depressing how many businesspeople view distance education as just a money making opportunity , without any serious commitment to doing a good job . When you investigate online education , please keep in mind that many web sites are trying to sell you something of questionable value . ) One respectable example is the University of Washington , which offers an online M.S. in applied mathematics , and there are some others like this . They could be viable options if attending in person is impossible . I do not know of any well respected math graduate program from a 100 % distance education university in the US , so you should be very suspicious of such programs , although perhaps they exist in other countries ( Open University ? ) . There is no worthwhile online Ph.D. program in mathematics . If your only goal is to get the degree itself , for example to move up in a salary scale for a job you already have , then it might be possible , but you would have to look carefully to make sure the program is accredited , and even so it wo n't be an impressive addition to your CV . If you are hoping for a career in academia or industrial research , do n't even think about an online Ph.D. . If an institution offers an online Ph.D. in mathematics , and presents it as being just as good and respected as a traditional Ph.D. , then you should be extremely suspicious of the entire institution . As for computer science , I do n't know as much about online master 's programs , but the issues are similar and I imagine the conclusions are as well . The online Ph.D. situation is definitely the same as in math .
I think now that i understand what the author of original post means to do , so please comment if i understood you correctly . Plan is to enter masters in math , try to get better GPA and then submit using only his new master diploma for PhD . If that is your intention , yes , that could work . As far as i know , masters program in USA lasts for one year . If you have time , will and funds to do it , sure , go ahead . You can get higher GPA and MSc in mathematics while learning something new in process . Other advice is to get your current GPA transcribed to european grade standard . Go to the websites of the universities where you intend to apply for PhD program and see if you meet minimum grade needed . Since there is n't universal grade minimum , you may find out that you qualify in one of them with your current GPA . Remember , GPA is not be all end all criteria . Personal experience , minimum grade average was 3.5 ( very good ) . When i applied they checked my grade average to see if i meet their minimum and they never looked at it again . It was mostly administrative criteria . Interviews had much more weight in their decision to admit me to PhD program . Hope it helps
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
In principle this is possible , however , when using data collected by somebody else you have to take great care not to produce bad science . Data collection is usualy performed with a certain specific application in mind , and when collecting data you have to make sure that the errors introduced in the collection process do not influence the final result in a way that is important for your purpose . If you use the same data for some other purpose your results will likely be affected by some bias . So if you want to corelate oil prices with GDP growth , you are fine , but with more complex questions you are in real danger .
It does n't really matter that the author gave you " unrestricted rights to use any portion of their article " without the need of citing it . We , the readers , want to know that you 're using it . Because I have all the rights to do this , would this be considered plagiarism ? Yes .
Well , it 's much better to have a part-time research position than no research position -- or more accurately , it 's much better to be doing some research than no research . I assume from your question you are either looking for a tenure-track/permanent faculty position at a research school or a research-oriented postdoc . If you want me to assess your chance of success , I ca n't accurately do that without knowing a lot about your situation -- in most areas I know of , the job market is n't great now , but certainly some fields/geographic regions/types of positions are less competitive than others . Basically , for a research-oriented position , you want to convince the people in charge of hiring that you 're going to do great research and contribute a lot to the research group you 're trying to be a part of . Generally this is easier the more research you 've done . However , if the amount and quality of research you 've done is impressive for someone doing other work part-time , that will probably taken into account -- which is maybe what you were really asking about . For instance , if two candidates have comparable research and one had a heaving teaching load at the time and one had a light load , the one with the higher teaching load looks more impressive . But if your research output is considerably less than the competition , it 's harder but not impossible to be viewed as a top candidate . Here outstanding references can help make up for this . Also , this is probably not a much of an issue if you are looking for postdoc positions .
It is possible to get second masters degree in a similar or related field . Doing so might even help with getting into a top PhD program . That said , where you did your master ( s ) degrees is not the key to the kingdom or even the most important thing in your PhD application . Demonstrating that you are smart , hardworking , and excellent at research should be your goal . Another masters from a " better " University might help toward that end but it 's hardly the only or best way . Focus on doing excellent research , publishing that work in excellent scholarly venues in your field , and getting excellent letters of recommendation from people that are known and respected in the field . If you do those things , and if you also have good grades and test scores , you 'll be a strong candidate for any PhD program . I have seen people build that portfolio as an undergrad , in a masters program , as research staff at a university , or even in industry . What you do matters at least as much as where you do it .
Extrapolating from the very few cases that I 've seen , I think you 'll need an official adviser at the school where you 're actually enrolled . If it 's OK with that adviser , then you could also have a " real " adviser elsewhere , on an unofficial basis . Your school may have some paperwork to be completed if your real adviser is to serve as a member of your official thesis committee .
It depends on whether the student on the F1 visa is already working 20 hours / week , which is likely to happen if he is an RA or a full-time TA ( typically grad TA ) , but unlikely if he is on a fellowship or pays the tuition fees himself . If the student is already working 20 hours / week , then he is not allowed to work , either it is on-campus or off-campus . Given the amount of experiments or other small jobs I see paid either in cash , Amazon gift cards ( sorry RMS ) , ice creams , and other kinds of compensations , the immigration law forbidding F1 visa holder from working more than 20 hours per week is broken every day . I am impressed so few people seem to care about this situation , given that violating the 20-hours-per-week rule can be a cause of visa termination and other troubles ( e.g. green card obtention ) . ( I need to check for volunteering work , but to me that 's work too . Any idea ? ) <URL> The only exception is if the Secretary of DHS suspends this requirement , by means of a Federal Register notice , due to emergent circumstances . The student must demonstrate to you that the extra work is necessary because the emergent circumstance has affected his or her source of support . Endorse the student 's Form I-20 with a reference to the Federal Register notice that announced the emergency exception before allowing the student to work more than 20 hours a week .
One of the most important factors is in which country you plan to work after getting your diploma . E.g. , if you plan to work in France , some French diplomas are just as valuable as " top " US schools .
This is a classic example where talking to your advisor is of the utmost importance . Some advisors want their students to choose a topic as early as possible , and others do n't mind if their students take their time . As for the topic , hopefully , your advisor should be able to point you in a direction if you do n't already have one . While I understand the rush to get started on something concrete , you really do n't want to do a lot of work on a topic that ends up being ( 1 ) uninteresting , and ( 2 ) unfruitful . Talk to as many other faculty and students as you 'd like , and there is n't anything wrong with reading ahead , with the exception that you might not understand something well enough to make a good decision about whether you should do research in the subject . My bottom-line suggestion is to take your time picking a topic , because you really do want it to be a good one .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
This may vary by field ; my experience is in mathematics . Most US students start a PhD program immediately after finishing their bachelor 's degree , so they apply during the last year of their undergraduate program . It is less common to complete a separate master 's first , especially in the sciences where PhD students are funded and masters students are typically not . The first couple of years of a PhD program are usually coursework similar to a masters program ( you would probably be able to skip some or most of these courses , if they are comparable to what you have taken ) . Therefore , the US students with whom you are competing are mainly undergraduates in the last year of their bachelors program . At this level a few of them may have published papers , but most will not . They may have research experience from summer projects , summer internships , independent study or lab work , but it is not usually comparable to graduate research . Very few of them will have any formal teaching experience ; at most they may have worked as teaching assistants , which usually means grading homework . Some of them may have taken a few graduate-level courses at their undergraduate university , but not to the full extent of a masters degree . So I do n't think you need to be concerned about your level of preparation or experience in comparison with US applicants . If anything , you should be ahead . As mentioned in comments , at a major US research department there should be people who have either come from UK universities or have experience with them . If they are not already on the graduate admissions committee , the committee members will consult with them if they have questions . Good luck !
end question
start question
Is it unethical to hire students for private consulting work ?
I 'm at a University at the moment where this sort of thing is quite common - and indeed , my previous institution had another department where a relationship like this one actually led to a major company that hires a large number of graduates . It is n't inherently unethical , but you need to make sure that business interests and academic ones are kept separate . It might , for example , be wise to have an uninvolved faculty member serving as co-supervisor . My institution 's stance : Protecting the Interests of Students and Trainees : The impact of a perceived or actual conflict of interest or commitment of faculty members on their students ( including post-doctoral fellows and other trainees ) is of special concern to the university . In particular , the university is committed to maintaining the content and quality of the educational experience for students whose research is sponsored by a for-profit business and whose faculty advisors have a financial interest or a management role in that business . The concern is even greater if the dissertation work could potentially affect the value of a company in which the faculty member has an ownership or managerial interest . For example , a faculty member who pressures a student to complete work related to the faculty member 's company could easily affect the student 's completion of graduate studies in a timely and appropriate way , thereby putting the faculty member 's interest in obtaining proprietary results ahead of the student 's academic or scholarly research activities . The concern is similar for the involvement of students in faculty consulting or other external activities . The risks and benefits of such involvement must be carefully weighed by departmental administrators responsible for evaluating the disclosure and approving the request , particularly where the involvement may be longer term and/or more time consuming . University policy recognizes that the involvement of students in faculty-owned or managed businesses or consulting may yield substantial benefit to the student , provided that certain conditions are met . Faculty members must disclose the proposed involvement of students in their external activities or in company-sponsored research . Faculty members who intend to serve as PI or co-PI on sponsored projects and have graduate students or trainees conduct a portion of the research under their supervision must develop a conflict of interest management plan to address protections for these early career scholars . See Example 2 under Managing Conflicts of Interest for appropriate strategies . Students and postdoctoral trainees have the right to be fully informed about the source of their funding , the nature of the faculty member 's personal interest or involvement , and , if relevant , any agreements concerning data collection , copyright , or patent protection arising from the research . Departmental and college-level administrators review the risks and protections with the student using the Research Agreement for Students and Postdoctoral Associates .
IMHO it depends on why you want to make it available . If your primary reason is that you want to make information available more publicly , you could produce a " revised edition " of the thesis and add a preface stating that this is a substantially revised and edited version of your thesis - just like other books do . If you just correct typos and grammar , just say that . There is also the possibility to comment on the conclusions you do n't see like that any more in a way ( formatting , footnote ) that makes clear that this is a point where your opinion now differs . ( like a commented edition of some work ) . If your primary reason is to give the text your online CV refers to , then leave it unchanged .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
In other words , can I go to a postdoc looking to talk and ask questions related to our field ? It depends on what you mean by " can " , as well as the culture in your field and department . If you are asking whether it 's an ethical and reasonable thing to do , then the answer is certainly yes . You can talk with and ask questions to anyone you 'd like , provided you appropriately acknowledge any assistance you receive . If you are asking whether the postdoc has an obligation to provide substantial assistance or tutoring , then the answer is quite possibly no . It 's hard to give a definitive answer , since precisely what the word " postdoc " means varies between fields and departments , but you should n't assume supervising graduate students is a serious part of the job unless you have some confirmation that this is true in your scenario . If your questions are genuinely interesting and thought-provoking to the postdoc , then they will probably be happy to chat with you . You may also get a good response if you ask about topics that are truly difficult to learn about elsewhere , so that the postdoc will be sympathetic . On the other hand , if you try to lighten your workload by asking the postdoc relatively routine questions so you do n't have to bother looking things up , then they will probably lose patience with you .
I believe that most of the students are event-driven . That is , if they have an important deadline , meeting , exam , TA section ( agghh ... ) , then they spend more time to prepare and be ready for that event . Whereas after an important deadline , ( or finals week , etc. ) they allow themselves to be more relaxed and spend less time " working " . However it is quite strange to define how much time one spends on " research " . Many people get very nice ideas just before the go to sleep , or while taking a shower ... The mind is running 24/7 . . Even though those people are not " in office " they do work on their research . I agree also with the answer of Lars that it really depends on the student 's personality and preferences . I 've known students who really need their schedule to be well defined . They showed up to office daily at 9:00 and left at a fixed time ( I guess that being married with kids kind of forces you to have a fixed schedule ) . So there are no fixed rules .
Yes , it is perfectly appropriate to refer to students in a class you are TAing as " my students . " You are teaching them ; hence , they are your students . It does n't really matter whether or not you are the primary instructor .
It would n't be unethical for your boss to fire you 8 months after you take the job , if he wanted to . Labor is an exchange you and your employer enter into voluntarily . So , you should n't feel bad quitting after 8 months if you want to . It 's not an ethical problem at all . It is more plausible to think there might be a personal problem if this is a small industry that you would plan to re-enter after finishing the degree . Do n't tell your boss up front that you might quit in 8 months , that is n't any of his business . If you do accept an offer to do a phd somewhere , then you should tell him promptly , just as a matter of courtesy . This is to allow the company adequate time to find a replacement .
The statement you quote sounds terrible . It points in a direction where things approach the unethical . Publication of negative results are less common that positive although , I suspect , negative results ARE more common than positive . Since I am in an experimental field , I have never obtained the perfect results and always end up describing what went wrong ; and I am not alone . Anyway , I think your idea of writing up your experience is good . Naturally , I can not judge the merits of the experiences in terms of publicability . So I think your intention is very sound and the reaction of the lead investigator suspect ( or at best narrow-minded ) . To me " further publications should n't raise more limitations that should have been mentioned in the original publication " ( if verbatim from the lead investigator and with my emphasis ) sounds as if limitations were not included on purpose in the original study . So , if that is true then I can understand the nervousness . It sounds almost fraudulent .
Your situation is not in any way plagiarism , but rather a common and ordinary case of independent reinvention . There is no need to have the other person as a co-author or anything like that : just cite their model as related prior work , explain how yours is similar and different , and learn from it so that you can do the best you can with your own work .
Our department has a policy of matching students and faculty . The faculty write up a brief description of the project they want to pursue . The PhD coordinator meets with students to assess their skill sets and top choices for projects and a match is made . We also have a policy of switching advisers after the first year . Good collaborations usually go on past this year , others have a way of dying out . However , our department is rather small -- usually between 10-15 grad students at a time .
If by " admitted ( accepted ) " you really mean " those who accepted their offer , " it 's just a nice , welcoming gesture . During course work , you 'll work so closely with and next to your future fellow students that you need n't worry about falling behind socially if you do n't attend . If people have been admitted but still weigh offers from different schools , it 's a marketing event in which faculty and current students will try to present their program - and the campus it 's on , and the city and state it 's in - in their best light . While it would certainly be nice to get to know other prospects , it is probably more helpful to use such events to get a feel for how you might get along with professors and such , and if the city is too busy - or not busy enough - for your taste . If you 're not rich with extra time to spare , it 's probably only necessary to fly in from Europe if it 's case 2 , and you have genuine questions or concerns . These can be nice events , but I 'd think twice before flying for 6-10 hours each way on your own money - as long as you ca n't combine it with a longer vacation or so .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
You need a little bit more than for the results to be better than the state of the art - you need the modification to be a non-obvious one that moves the field forward . For example , there are a lot of results in my field that I can improve by tuning some parameters ( to make the results in a given scenario " better " ) or by combining two known methods . If the modification involves new intellectual or technical insight , it 's a meaningful extension and can be published . Otherwise , it 's probably not publishable . The " minimum " modification that is necessary for the work to be publishable is the modification that involves ( at least ) the amount of new intellectual content that is necessary for work in your field to be considered publishable .
Very roughly , at the US universities I have worked for , the IP policies have been along these general lines : When you write a paper or book as part of your research , you get to keep the copyright and any royalties . But the university gets permission to use the work internally , keep a copy in the library , etc. . If , as part of your research , you invent something that 's patentable , contact the university 's IP office . They will help you with the patent process . You and the university will hold the patent together , or some similar arrangement . They have to agree on any licensing agreements , etc ( where you sell some company the rights to use your patent ) , and they get a large share ( perhaps half or so ) of whatever royalties or fees are earned . ( I 'm a pure mathematician , and we never invent anything patentable , so I always skim the patent part and may have got it wrong :-)
The h-index is a measure of the impact of someone 's publication list . An h-index of 10 for example means that the person has published 10 papers with at least 10 citations . The total number of papers published may be higher , but only 10 will have 10 or more citations . Critics argue that this measure disadvantages young researchers who did not have time to publish a lot and whose work has not been published for long and thus may not have attracted many citations . Other criticisms include that it makes a researcher focus on how to increase the citation count for a paper that may be not that good but would increase the h-index . For more explanation , see for example the <URL> .
Sure it is acceptable for a Lecturer to refuse to do this , given that it is n't a condition of the Lecturer 's being hired that they agree to publicly posting the information , nor is doing so strictly required for the lecturer to do the other parts of the job that are required . My own view is that it 'd be crazy not to make your information publicly available , since there 's no harm in doing so , but much harm in terms of lost opportunities from not doing it . Still , there 's no legal or even moral prohibition against making poor career choices .
Your role as a teaching assistant is to further the educational goals of the course ( as determined by the instructor and/or the department ) . If encouraging your students to read these materials furthers the educational goals of the course , then you should do so . If not , then you should n't . Since the instructor and/or the department determines what the educational goals of the class are , you should check with them first , and use your extra material only with their approval . ( Besides for the issue of making sure your material is consistent with the goals of the course , it also makes sense for them to be aware of what is going on . )
The legal issues involved will , of course , depend on what legal jurisdiction you are asking about . However , there are some common factors that can be considered . In the UK many institutions take the interpretation of the Disability Discrimination Act ( DDA ) that teaching staff can not prevent students making private recordings ( Audio or Video ) of any teaching activity . The reasoning is that students are entitled to keep their condition confidential ( as it may be a private medical matter ) but also must be permitted to receive the appropriate adjustment for their condition . It would be expected , as a courtesy , that the student would inform the staff concerned that recording was taking place , but that this could not be enforced . ( * ) Conversely , the Intellectual Property ( IP ) of the class and the material contained therein would be held by the University and the individual teacher to varying degrees . The recording could not be published or used for any means other than private study as this would then violate the rights of the owner of the IP . Many aspects of disability discrimination , privacy and intellectual property legislation is common across many EU states , but there are variations in practice . I can imagine how these different statutes might interact in ( say ) the US , but I suspect it might vary from state to state and not always be a federal matter , and so I decline to speculate . ( * ) I have responsibilities for assisting academic staff understand these issues in my department ...
Being part of a big lab has pluses and minuses , and whether it 's a good thing for you is likely to depend much on your personality and circumstances . Cons : you 've put your finger on the key fact , that students in big labs are likely to receive much less attention that students in small labs . You also might end up as a just small part of some big project , or even just a glorified lab tech . Pros : in order to support so many students , a professor generally needs to have good funding and being doing research that lots of people find exciting . This means that the projects you are working on are likely to have people paying attention to them , and that if you do well , you may have a powerful backer . For somebody who thrives in a big , competitive environment , a big lab may be good . For somebody who wants a more personal relationship with one-on-one tutorial , a small lab is probably better . All sorts of labs and advisors can be routes to good careers , however , and it 's a matter of figuring out what works best for you .
From my experience in CS in Canada , most student do not have industry experience before doing their Ph.D. . And I have not seen this as a requirement for entering the Ph.D either . The reason is that a Ph.D. is not an industrial project although it could be related to the industry in some cases . But it does not need to . During a Ph.D. the goal is not to commercialize a project . But it is to advance knowledge in a given field . Some people do a Ph.D. project in collaboration with a company . But from my experience , most people do n't . So to answer your question : it is not important to have industry experience . But it can help . Perhaps that you will know how to better manage your time , etc. and this may be help in carrying your Ph.D project .
end question
start question
Etiquette for an initial meeting with a prospective advisor : What is expected of the student ?
For an initial meeting , I would take an general idea of the kinds of things you 'd like to do in a particular advisor 's group , a sense of what the advisor works on -- you do n't necessarily have to have read papers in advance , and an open mind . That said , you 'll make a better impression if you have read a few recent papers , and have a few intelligent questions to ask . It will pique the advisor 's interest , and show your sincerity . As for coming in with ideas for a research project , this depends a lot on how the project will be funded . If you have your own fellowship and can design your own project , then you should definitely have an idea or two ready . On the other hand , if you will be funded by an existing research grant within the group , your choice of projects will be more constrained . One final note -- I would say that it 's definitely not required that you take a course with an advisor before considering them as a research advisor . If that were the case , I would have been on a completely different career path than the one I 'm on now , as I 'd be working for my fourth-choice advisor ( who was the only one I took a class with before choosing a research group ! ) .
A collaboration is comparable to a business relationship ; both sides need to put significant , continuous effort into making the relationship work , and the benefits are often only realized after some initial time period has passed . Given that mindset , you 'll have to convince the prospective collaborator that : You are a good researcher , Your idea is worth researching , and They will significantly benefit from having your cooperation in implementing this idea . < negative nelly > From my experience , as a graduate student , you will likely find it very difficult to succeed at convincing them of 1 and/or 3 without having the full backing of your advisor . < / negative nelly > All that being said , if you plan on initiating contact via email , simply compose it as you would a communique to a business contact ; write professionally , describe the idea clearly and briefly , and discuss how they should contact you to follow up . You will want to convince them of all three in the email , which may be a difficult task . I would imagine you should follow up via phone or in-person meeting , as you would a business contact .
The person 's title in this case is ( almost always ) Dr , so " Dear Dr Last-name " would be the standard salutation for a first correspondence . If they sign their reply with their first name , then you can consider yourself welcome to write " Dear First-name " in future . Academics in the UK are very used to receiving email addressing them as Professor , so it 's not a big problem if you do this , but there is probably a slight increase in the chance that they might view your email as spam ( I say this because the overwhelming majority of emails I get which address me as Professor are at least somewhat spammy ) . If someone 's title is Professor , this will always be listed on the university website , so if you 've done your research and found out that they are not a professor , it 's probably best to use Dr.
In my opinion , it is not rude to make only a brief visit , especially if you accept with , e.g. " I would love to come , thank you , but I 'm afraid I can only come there for the afternoon - I hope that is okay ? " Certainly I agree that it is as great idea to stay for the whole day if you can . I 've noticed that perception of etiquette seems to differ a lot from person to person . Whether or not it is okay to recommend a taxi from the airport ( as opposed to picking up the visitor yourself ) , whether or not to take visitors out for a late drink ( or karaoke ! ) , whether to put them up in a hotel or your house , how long to encourage them to stay ... these are all aspects where I 've seen things done differently . But a small minimum of communication beforehand and flexibility during the visit seems to suffice to guarantee a good visit . If you 're the one visiting , I would certainly recommend at the very least hanging around the department some and going out to dinner with your hosts ( assuming they invited ) , but it 's more or less up to you .
In my experience , what comes before professor ( e.g. assistant , associate , full ) is only really used in formal contexts , and in most other cases simply " Professor " / " Prof. " is enough . And , at least in the sciences , " Doctor " / " Dr. " is typically used when that is the highest title . I 've never seen both " Professor " and " Doctor " used together . So , in your case , I suppose " Prof. X " is good enough .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
One important general comment : It seems like you feel as though the department will leave you on your own to take these " needed undergraduate courses " . I find this highly unlikely ! If a department admits you ( and funds you ) , then they are on your side and want you to succeed ! If you are lacking some " satisfactory undergraduate training " , then the admissions committee will know this before offering you a spot in their program . When they make you an offer , they know what you specifically will need to do to meet the requirements of their program , and it 's in the best interest of the department to help you work towards meeting these requirements . If you enroll in a graduate program , you will be expected to get your knowledge of the basic areas of the subject up to the standard set by the department . Moreover , you will be expected to do this according to their timeline . Sometimes this may require you to take some undergraduate courses , which is not a big deal . In my experience in mathematics graduate school , students given the " standard " teaching assistantship are free to take courses of virtually any kind ( with perhaps the approval of the math department ) , and the tuition for these courses is covered by the assistantship automatically . There is no extra assistantship needed for such courses . In my department , I 've never heard of a student being denied permission to take courses outside of the department , and I 've seen math grad students take undergraduate courses like dance and Japanese . So presumably if you were a " fully funded " grad student and you needed to take some undergrad courses while in grad school , these would be covered by your existing assistantship . As to your last question : For the " standard " teaching assistantship , in math , it is typical that the student maintains ( or rather , annually renews ) the assistantship until she is done with the degree . This is of course dependent on the student making satisfactory progress towards the degree , as defined by each individual department .
To the department . The point of publishing work is to share the knowledge with others . This will be more greatly achieved in your previous department where other professors and up-and-coming students can have access to your work . This would be better than your work simply sitting on your old supervisor 's book shelf . Your supervisor likely knows your work and therefore does not need a constant reminder sitting on his or her shelf . Also , I never knew an academic supervisor who cherished having a previous student 's work sitting on their shelf solely for sentimental reasons , which I think might be your motive .
I 've recently come to think that one should always add an initial or two , just to reduce potential confusion . Also , doing so consistently is some push-back against the pop mythology that some people are in the special category that everyone knows who they are , and are referred-to in a different , more heroic style . ( The simplistic , so-called " Great Man " theory of history of science and everything-else makes it harder to understand what actually happened and happens ... )
Honestly , my expectations for undergraduate theses are very limited . Any well-written discussion that demonstrates significant understanding of the research area is probably satisfactory . A doctoral dissertation is supposed to demonstrate significant research skill and the ability to perform cutting-edge research . A master 's thesis is supposed to demonstrate the ability to perform some useful research in the subject area . An undergraduate thesis is supposed to demonstrate that a student knows something worth knowing about a topic , and original results are not generally a requirement . In a way , it is good that you are unhappy with your undergraduate honors thesis . That demonstrates that you know what you have actually accomplished and also clearly understand the weaknesses of your work . It may be unfortunate that you have not had enough time to complete all the work you would have liked to complete , but if you continue along an academic career path , you will get ample opportunities to pursue more complete research projects . ( As a personal note , I should add that as I am writing this comment , I really ought to be providing comments on the thesis draft that I received the other day from my own honors college student . This is a really good student , and he has already appeared as an author on a paper in a top journal , based on his work over the past year . On the other hand , his written thesis is lacking in both contextualization and descriptive detail . To bring his work up to the level where I would like it to be would be a significant undertaking , and it is probably not going to get to that level in the limited time we have . To some extent , that leaves me disappointed , but I do not want to lose track of the fact that this is a really first-rate student , and what he has produced -- imperfect as it is -- is quite remarkable for an twenty-one-year-old undergraduate . )
Your strategy sounds sound to me . You can not read the papers from end to end . You need to weed out they papers you will possibly need in your review with as little effort as possible . Title and abstract should be enough . Once you have done this you should be left with a bunch of papers that are likely to be of use to you . While you have looked through them you must also consider how the material can be organized . There are many ways of doing this , chronological order ( boring ) , thematic order ( are there subfields ? ) , contradictions ( are there compeeting ideas ) etc. . The point is to try to get the information organized . You need some form of organization fo the papers so that you know how you will treat them in your review . Once you have found all papers you think you need you can start assembling the information into your text . It is at this point you can start reading them in more detail . It is still not necessary to read every detail . you need to focus on the background to the different conclusions drawn . The goal of the review should be to provide a new perspective on the field you have chosen so your own familiarity with the field ( papers ) is key . Try to collect as many as you can ; not all will be used .
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
The professor encouraged you to apply -- so that 's what he expects you to do next . It is nothing wrong in your attempt to establish a more substantial connection with him and to promote yourself in his eyes , it increases your chances to get selected . However , imagine that at the same time there are probably 100 + other candidates , trying to do exactly the same -- sending him several smart research questions , involving him in some discussion , and expecting to chat over Skype with him in a few days . How would you feel in his shoes ? Of course , professors want to be available for their potential PhD students , TAs and colleagues , and of course , they want to participate in the selection process . But many of them do not want to carry out all the communication themselves -- that 's what secretariat , admissions , and HRs are for ! I assume there is a formal route to submit your application , and I suggest exactly what your professor suggested -- prepare your application and submit as instructed . If in a meantime you receive a message from him -- go forth and suggest a Skype meeting . If not -- assume that the professor is busy , and submit your application before the deadline anyway .
You say that your work on methods is uninteresting , but that you believe the results to be valuable . That 's great ! You should write a paper about the results ! Sometimes people feel like the amount of manuscript text they produce for each aspect of their work should be proportional to the time and energy put into that aspect , e.g. , if you spent 3/4 of your time working on the methods , then your text should be approximately 3/4 about the methods . That is incorrect . The amount of space something takes up in the text should be proportional to how interesting it is to the reader . Sometimes you have to put in a lot of work on something that is very simple to explain , and that 's OK . Focus on the bits that will be interesting to the reader , and instead tell your friends the stories of how long and hard you worked on the " uninteresting " bits to get there .
if you are in Japan , there are many people that go to Guam to take the CPA . Essentially anybody can do it , but if you graduate from an American University , there are some modules that you do not need to take , pretty much like the Japanese CPA .
It is what it is . Some schools give you less opportunity for teaching than others ( e.g. , schools in the UK ) . If you are looking for a research postdoc , then having a lot of teaching experience is not too important . For instance , at my institution , we want to make sure you 're competent and not going to cause problems , but you do n't need to have won five teaching awards . This is evidenced primarily by your teaching letter . If you think you can get a decent teaching letter now , then I would n't worry about it . ( Note : if you 're TAing now and probably wo n't be again before you apply , consider having someone who will write you a letter observe your class . ) If you 're looking for a " teaching postdoc , " e.g. a temporary position at a liberal arts school , they typically want more evidence that you 're a good teacher , so you might try to actively look for more teaching opportunities . Note : presumably many other students at your institution have the same issue . Try finding out how much TAing recent graduates did and what kind of jobs they got after graduating .
Never use the solution manual before trying everything else ; talk to friends , visit the professor , go to class and listen ( ! ) , check the internet . Once you use the solution manual for a problem , the potential gain from that problem is significantly and irrecoverably reduced . Use the solution manual to check your work . ( Duh . ) For problems you are n't planning on solving , you can use the solutions manual to create flashcards and other learning aides ( if the course material is anemable to such a construct ) . If you have a friend/roommate/spouse / trained monkey who can compare your answers to the manual for you , such that you do n't actually read through the manual , that may be useful for certain topics . You can make some good money selling it when the semester is over :)
In general , ' comments ' can be comments in support or comments in disagreement . Usually people tend to only submit comment when they are moved strongly to point out a disagreement . But , as question specifically referred to Nature 's " <URL> " ( BRA ) the answer is NO . The BRA notes that " Submissions should challenge the main conclusions of the Nature paper and contain new , unpublished data to support the arguments . " . ( i.e. , pointing out errors , reinterpreting conclusions , coming to a different end result , comments to refute ) . Showing that there is an alternative method that is better than that presented in the paper does n't seem to fall under that ' challenge ' to the paper . ( Unless perhaps you can write it as challenging some final conclusion that their method is the best possible ever ? ) They offer the option to add extensive comments under the paper on the website . But then it will be difficult for others to be able to cite or even find your work . It sounds as if you should find a journal and submit your your method as improvement in XX algorithm/method , citing the original Nature paper . For comments and criticism there is a brilliant new service of pre - and post-publication reviews called Publons . For example , a <URL> of a sensational paper in Nature . Each review is assigned a DOI , so others may easily cite your comments . Also , it is well covered with Altmetric , which provides quite a visibility to your comment . Yet , no official impact factor for you reply publication .
I write letters all the time for students I 've taught , but whom I have n't seen for a long period . I do ask for specific information : Tell me what the deadline is ! Include your student number . Remind me which of my classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? I am going to have to answer those questions when I write your reference , so the more details the better . I have to have personal knowledge of anything I write , so remind me of those things I may have forgotten . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that I may not know about ? Tell why you 're particularly qualified for the job , educational program , or award you 're applying for . What makes me particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? Include a copy of your application essay . Put that stuff together , write the professor a note saying , " As the deadline of [ whenever it is ] is approaching , I thought the following material might help you . Thank you again for agreeing to write a recommendation . " The professor who has that material to hand can complete a letter in a much shorter time than if it all had to be looked up and remembered . People ( that would be me ) tend to do the easy things before the hard things . Make this one an easy thing !
end question
start question
Can I submit application on the deadline ?
Most commonly the deadline is inclusive , i.e. , " January 15 " means that the deadline is " at some moment during January 15 " . What does this mean can vary : For online applications , it 's usually 23:59:59 . For mailed applications , there are two options and exactly one of them is true : either the poststamp has to be January 15 ; or it has to arrive to the institution by January 15 . For applications you deliver in person , usually the opening hours of the office where you have to bring it apply . In either case , it should be specified in the conditions . And please remember that timezones can play a role here , and everything is in the timezone of the institution where you apply unless stated otherwise . / From comments / If you doubt the precise conditions , just call them or e-mail them and ask for clarification . It will cost you less than solving any troubles afterwards .
You can simply publish your paper with your new name on it . It will appear in Scopus within your new author profile ( with a newly created Scopus Author ID ) . Finaly , you can send a request to merge authors to Scopus ( <URL> ) . All your Scopus records ( with the former and new name ) will be collected in a unique author profile . When merging profiles , you should set your newly created profile ( with your new name ) as preferred .
I would n't make too much fuss about it . A simple short and polite email which states that the current state of affairs ( letters were sent , you were asked to wait for a week ) and inquires whether there were some problems with your application and what its status is . On the side note , a week waiting is not at all alarming in academia , unless some explicit deadlines are in place . I would wait for at least another 10 days before contacting the professor . I also agree with RoboKaren , it is highly unusual to apply to a professor . Therefore , another cultural/professional practices may apply in your case . However , a polite email is almost always acceptable ( whether or not it is ignored is another question ... ) .
Asking your advisor , as suggested by @NateEldredge , is a good first step and many advisors will be able to help you . In some cases , though , your advisor may be unfamiliar , may just not publish much any more ( that was the case for my advisor ) , or may not be able to effectively help for other reasons . If this is the case , then I would suggest two other methods for figuring out where to send your papers : Look at the papers that have been published in previous years , and see how their scope and quality compares to yours . Aim high , and see what kind of feedback you get back from the reviewers . The worst that happens is that they reject your paper .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
Yes , this is a problem . You should not submit the same work to more than one journal at a time . This applies regardless of language - merely being in a different language does not make the actual work unique . Further , consider some practical considerations - a simultaneous submission means that you 'll have to go through peer-review for both papers and ( assuming you do n't get caught and summarily rejected ) presumably have to make some changes . What if the changes do n't align ? Now you do n't have two translations of the same paper , but two subtly different papers in two languages . If you 're genuinely interested in making your paper more accessible , either post a translation online , or wait until one paper is accepted and then approach a journal in the other language about posting a translation .
A poster of which you 're not the first author is such a minor thing I would n't worry about it ( even if it is listed on the conference website ) . I do n't have a huge publication list but still only include posters I presented ( aand only at major conferences ) . They do n't have anything like the CV impact of a peer-reviewed paper . Either : You were accidentally omitted and should be included . In this case the author should contact the conference organisers ( but it 's probably too late ) . Or your contribution was rather minor -- perhaps it only became apparent that your work made it onto the poster at all at the last minute . In this case while you 're named as an author it 's closer to an acknowledgement in practice . Listing it as a publication , if the title can be searched for but you 're not named , does n't seem like a good idea . Realistically no one is ever going to look . But if you just happen to come up against someone who 's interested in something very specific about the poster that you do n't normally do , it is n't going to help you .
MIT 's Open Courseware project has a lot of material of this sort . Here is a link to the <URL> , with courses organized by topic . The depth of the offering will vary from course to course . Some have only syllabi , others have complete video lectures , homework assignments , exams , solutions , etc. . The coverage is quite broad and includes courses in all of the specific classes you have listed .
This is tricky , because in the US there really is no standard/universal handling for this sort of situation . It 's probably going to be different at every department you are thinking of applying to . With that said , there are a few common outcomes , to wit : Some programs will simply say no - you must pay in full at the time of both the original application , and re-application . Some programs offer fee waivers with a variety of requirements . Some programs will waive fee for US citizens with demonstrated need , some programs waive fees for people who participated in certain programs ( often which target helping certain groups get to and succeed in college ) . Some offer waivers/reductions to countries where the relatively reasonable fee to US citizens is just an absurd expense ( especially ones where $ 75 is 2-4 + weeks of average salary ) . This does not apply to every country , however . I suppose it 's technically possible that a program will allow you to pay the fee once and reapply the next year at no additional cost ... but I 've really never heard of that and I 'd be pleasantly surprised if any program you were looking at would offer you that option . I 'd suggest you contact a few of your target programs right away and ask their graduate coordinator what your options specific to the fees are . That 's really the only way I can think of to get a real answer that 's certain enough to help you decide on what to do . But barring answers from your target programs , I would absolutely suggest that you do not simply rely on them being willing to let you reapply at no extra cost or automatically not pay the fee - or even to waive the fee more than once . They are not required to do this by any external rules or laws , and being a foreign citizen or having limited finances are not protected/privileged groups under most US laws . Get direct answers from schools you care about , and then decide for yourself if you absolutely can not afford to apply two years in a row if it comes to that .
Ask for the code . Please do , however , explain why you want it and what you intend to use it for . Personally , I would be quite happy if someone contacted me about my research , and would try to give all the necessary tools to recreate my data . Especially so if I am not currently working on a follow up piece . That said , I 've asked for parameters , codes , procedures etc. several times from the authors when the description in a paper has been vague . I 've had a lot of different responses : Some have plain ignored me , others have given me everything I asked for , and yet others have only obliged when I 've suggested that I might be willing to put them as co-authors if I built upon their code in a way that leads to a publication . Finally , some have refused my request . This has happened for a number of reasons , for example those discussed in <URL> . If you ask for code and say that you just want to verify some of the conclusions of the authors or use it as a reference for your own implementation , you can most typically expect a refusal or no reply . This , at least , is the experience I 've had .
The IEEE makes their ' Taxonomy ' available <URL> ( linked to in their Author FAQ under the Publications page ) , but this is only a hierarchical list without the designations you have given to identify something as the C.2.1.h topic . Surprisingly ( to me ) , neither the author kit nor the editorial manual discuss this hierarchy . In contrast , for the American Institute of Physics , the PACS codes are available on-line at <URL> .
You can certainly mention a professor and his/her research in your statement of purpose as long as it is genuine . This can show that you are a ) familiar with the school/the department and its faculty and b ) you have a good understanding of the field and your interests within it . There is certainly nothing wrong with saying ' One of the reasons that I chose this school is because Prof. X 's work on XYZ is very interesting , and I would love the opportunity to learn from him/her and his/her work . ' Do n't , however , try to name-drop for the sake of it . You should also make sure that you do a little research to make sure that that professor is actually still going to be doing work during your time at that school . It looks kind of bad if you say ' I really want to work with Prof. A , ' but Prof A is going to be on sabbatical or something like that . This kind of information is not always readily available . In short , do n't be afraid of mentioning a prof if you really mean it and are really excited , but do n't look up someone from each school you are applying to for the sake of putting a name in your paper .
Ask the university . If they know your situation in advance , they will probably be able to accommodate you . Ask if you can either submit the whole application late , or if you should submit the rest of your application on time and send just the GRE score through when it arrives .
Publishing a shorter conference version and a longer journal version of the same article is common practice in at least one discipline I am familiar with ( computer science ) and maybe in others . So that by itself is not an offense . Keep in mind that conference and journal publications are philosophically different and serve somewhat different purposes : Publishing in a conference proceedings is a quick way to get your research published . And of course you also get to attend the conference and speak about your work to people working in your area . Hence in rapidly moving fields this is the standard venue for publishing exciting new research . However , proceedings papers have strict length limitations so one can not include as many details as in a journal article . And most importantly , the review process for conference publications is faster and usually not as strict as for journal articles . Many people consider conference publications not to be proper peer-reviewed publications , and when citing a result from such a publication one must be aware of a very real possibility that the result has not undergone the fullest scrutiny as to its correctness and may be wrong . ( Of course this possibility also exists in journal publications , but to a lesser extent . ) Publishing in a journal takes a lot longer for the review and publication process , but there are fewer or no space limitations , and the review is a proper peer review that ( ideally , though not always in practice ) provides strict assurance that the results of your paper have been checked and are correct ( or use proper scientific methodology and are likely to be replicable , in experimental sciences ) . Because of these differences , in a field like CS one common practice is to submit a short and quick version of your paper to a conference to get the ideas out in front of their intended audience as quickly as possible , and then to follow up later with a longer , more detailed , version of the results , and to submit that to a journal for strict peer-review certification and the accompanying credibility and prestige . With regards to your question , I think there are two potential pitfalls you need to beware of in your specific situation : It sounds like the journal editors are unaware that you concurrently submitted a short version of the paper to a conference . Since you made the conference submission after the journal submission ( which is the opposite of the usual order of doing things , as someone else pointed out ) , there is a possibility that you are violating the journal 's submission policy . I suggest making very sure that that is not the case , and if in doubt contacting the journal editors to inform them of what you did and ask if it 's okay . There is nothing shameful or dishonorable about making such an inquiry - you are trying to do the right so it makes perfect sense to ask such questions . Even if you verify that with both submissions you did everything by the book and did not break any rules , NEVER claim or make a representation in your CV or publication list that the two versions are different publications . That in my opinion would expose you to serious criticism of dishonesty and resume-padding . Benoit Kloeckner 's answer gives a good explanation of the proper way to cite the two versions by including both in the same entry in your publication list . The bottom line is that in some areas it is acceptable to publish two versions of the same article , one in a journal and one in a conference proceedings . I should add that in my opinion doing so is also of questionable value , unless you are in a discipline where this is the standard practice for publishing for the reasons I listed above . You will not get , and should not try to get , double credit for publishing the same material twice .
Here 's what I would suggest : First , alert the authors to the issues . Wait to see how they respond , or do not respond . But in all cases , they should be the first you write to . If the issues do not severely impact the correctness of the work or its utility , stop there . It 's probably not worth making a fuss about something most readers will either not use , or can easily correct themselves . If you publish something on the topic yourself , especially if you build on the authors ' equations or otherwise use them , you should make a note of the issue in your article . Finally , if you believe the issue is important and/or the equations are widely used , you should contact the journal 's editor and ask for guidance . Errata are " authored " by the original authors . Publisher 's corrections also exist , when the responsibility for the issue ( typo in equation , misprint in figures , etc. ) is that of the publisher .
I would try the following : Contact the department ( s ) where you are applying , and ask them if they have received the letter . ( It 's possible that they have received it , but for some reason it has not yet been logged in their online system . ) Explain that you would ask the professor herself but you can not reach her . If they say they have not received it , ask if they would be willing to keep your application under consideration , pending the arrival of the letter . I do n't know if this will help , but it 's worth a try . Contact the professor 's department chair and see if he/she knows anything about the professor 's whereabouts . It is possible that something unusual has happened ( e.g. she is in the hospital ) , in which case the chair may be able to write a note to the admission committee explaining the circumstances and asking for their patience . If it seems that the letter may not be forthcoming within a few days , consider seeing if someone else can write you a letter . Be sure to explain to them the circumstances , so they understand that it is urgent for reasons beyond your control . Hopefully someone who has been on an admission committee will add an answer saying how they normally handle such situations ( which must be rather common ) .
Anybody can submit to almost any journal ( there are some out there where some sort of existing membership is a pre-requisite , but they are rare exceptions ) . There is , however , an additional barrier that an author has to overcome if they are not known and/or they are not affiliated with some reputable institution . In essence , peer review of a journal submission is attempting to evaluate credibility of the arguments presented in the paper . Authors who are known in the community that they are submitting to or who are coming from highly reputed institutions have an inherent advantage in that they already have some credibility simply through their reputation or affiliation . An author who does not have these advantages will naturally be faced with more skepticism about their statements , particularly when dealing with an experimental work where the paper can not contain every relevant fragment of information about the work being reported . What this means , in practice , is that when a submitted paper has flaws , an unknown and/or unaffiliated author is more likely to get rejected whereas a author drawing on prior credibility is more likely to get asked to make revisions . This might not be ideal , but pragmatically it is fairly reasonable : there is a lot of really bad stuff submitted to journals , and the quality of a submission is typically fairly well correlated with author and institution . So how should an unknown and/or unaffiliated author go about publishing ? First off , it 's very useful to get feedback on pre-submission drafts from trusted colleagues , so that the initial submission can be as good as possible . Second , it 's rare that any major development is contained within a single paper . Rather than trying to publish " the one big paper , " one can build up credibility by publishing a sequence of manuscripts , starting in still-credible but less prestigious journals . For example , if the work is about a general new principle , there could first be a paper proposing the principle and analyzing its implications , followed by another paper making experimental tests of some of those implications , followed by a bigger paper pulling it all together an demonstrating the general power of the principle with more diverse experiments . These are all perfectly reasonable papers -- no <URL> needed , just an understanding that most significant ideas usually result in more than one journal paper worth of work , and some idea of how to segment the work sensibly .
First of all , you need to make it exceedingly easy for the Luddites to put their material online . If it is hard to do , or if it takes a particular skill other than " go to this website and click a few links " than you 're going to have a hard time ever convincing them to get onboard . If they absolutely need to be trained , you may have to have a mandatory training session where they get their first set of lectures or whatever online ( but do n't expect any other forthcoming material to be posted without more prodding -- then again , they may see the light if it is easy enough and they can see the results online ) . I 'd suggest one or more of the following four suggestions , in order of preference : Ask for student volunteers to help these faculty put their material online . Whether these are TAs for the class , or paid/hired students not already assigned , or strictly volunteers is up to you and budgeting concerns . You may have to continue this process for subsequent classes if the faculty are n't willing to learn how to do it themselves . Automate the system ( which goes back to my original comment ) . If paper is involved , have someone set up a scanner to handle loose-leaf material , or via a photocopier/scanner . If it is just soft-copy document uploading , this can be automated with a drop box on a shared drive -- just drag materials into the box and it ends up online . This wo n't make for a particularly organized system , but at least the material will be online . Wait them out and let attrition work its magic . You may always have reluctant faculty , but as older Luddites retire you should find this less of a problem . If there are only a few faculty that do n't want to come onboard , this is definitely the easiest method , and you 're really not losing too much by waiting . Make posting the material mandatory . I can almost guarantee this wo n't be possible for tenured faculty , but maybe you can provide some incentive rather than simply encouraging them to put the material online . I do n't think you 'll get very far with a simple plea for coming into the 21st Century -- if they are refusing to adopt , they probably feel they are too busy , or do n't like the whole idea of it .
I am a professional programmer with a PhD . I have had a colleague , who was working as a programmer and continued even publishing in his unrelated field ( chemical engineering/textiles ) , so if you are dedicated , it is even easier for you to do , since your area might be related , but still it is not a light undertaking . But if you can find a more research heavy R&amp;D position in the industry , of course that would make it easier . I am personally planning to teach adjunct classes , to keep me fresh about theoretical basis . Hope my two cents helps .
You had a reason to decline . Has the reason evaporated ? Why are you changing your mind ? You should need to have a good response for that , both for yourself as well as to the place you apply to . As a superviser , I had students changing mind back and fro , which I understand - it 's a big decision , and not all information may be available . However , keep in mind that your originally offered position , as stated elsewhere , may have been already given to someone else .
end question
start question
How to avoid letters while searching pubmed portal ?
You are really asking two questions , a technical and a principal . As for the technical , let us assume your search is # 1 , then you can exclude letters by searching : Note the asterisk to also include the commentary publication type . As to the other question ; " Can these be considered valid articles ? " - yes , they can ! And in some cases , the information provided in comments can be as important or perhaps even more important than what is provided in the article commented on . So whether you should include them in your search highly depends on what the purpose of your search is . Are you getting a rough idea of the available literature ? Then fine , exclude them . Are you doing a systematic literature review ? Include them ! There might be crucial information regarding data or conflicting findings . It should be possible to quickly ( manually ) exclude irrelevant letters .
I would like to know how much he can write about my mental health , also considering that the academic work did n't suffer at all from this . According to <URL> of organizations : " The Americans with Disabilities Act recognizes that employers may sometimes have to disclose medical information about applicants or employees . " But also they claim : " The basic legal principle that employers should follow is not to reveal medical information about you unless there is a legitimate business reason to do so . But because that standard is fairly vague , there are laws which more specifically protect the privacy of your medical records , such as the Americans with Disabilities Act , the law which makes it illegal to discriminate on the basis of an employee 's disability . " For UK you may find more information on <URL> website and <URL> . If you ask me I would say that it is not actually ethical to write about your mental health if your job did n't suffer from that . For some careers there are some health restrictions ( e.g. pilots , surgeons , etc. ) but I 've never seen that for academic work . More to say , I know people who have GAD , OCD , etc. and they have never had significant issues in academic life . But I also have to say that people usually do n't take year off because of mental health issue , especially not for GAD . From your post I ca n't see if the GAD is a main reason of one year off . If it is n't the main reason then I do n't understand why your supervisor has a need to write it in recommendation letter . But , if GAD is your main reason why you needed to stay away from University than I do n't understand how your mental health did n't affect your productivity when it is even though you continued to work . Whatever the case is , I would n't like that my supervisor writes " a mental issue " because for me it sounds serious and Generalized Anxiety Disorder actually does n't sound due to prevalence " <URL> " Shortly , I do n't think he should write about your mental health when you obviously continued to work . It is your private information , there are some laws about it and I am worried that you will be discriminate because of that . My advice : Talk with your supervisor , find out why he thinks that he is forced to write it in recommendation letter ( that is really strange ) and please look more into the laws and send them to him if it is needed .
One possible answer is that the referee process of a paper is a very professional and time consuming job ( at least I am sure it is in mathematics ) . Therefore it is not fair you submit your paper to several journals and make them to referee your paper by different experts and then you withdraw your paper just because your paper got accepted by another journal .
[ Since there will be very different views on this matter , I 've kept my answer in first-person to indicate that this is my viewpoint and not a guideline of a sort . ] Whilst I agree with the comments that to an extent , it is perfectly natural to respond differently to different levels of engagement , I think a good strategy is to consider the world outside of the classroom and remember that behaviour in the classroom is a product of many causes . I do this when I teach and I notice that I start disliking students for not turning up , lack of engagement etc. . I then recall my first year at Undergrad level . I was severely depressed , attended barely 20 % of my classes , just about managed to pass the year . I am sure I must have appeared absent , disinterested , the sort of student that my lecturers would ask " why would they be here in the first place if they do n't attend anything ? " - but my classroom behaviour ( or rather , the absence of it ) had absolutely nothing to do with the classroom itself , nor the teaching , not even the material . My personal background helps me to consider such a scenario - but I think there are plenty of other things , such as : undisclosed/not-diagnosed disabilities and/or illnesses affecting students international students having to find their way in a very foreign world related to 2. , oftentimes young students and their first experience abroad , on their own family background : crises at home , responsibilities for parents/grandparents/siblings that would not normally be considered Perhaps just the natural way of things : students realise that what they thought they would love to study turns out to have been an illusion . They are not at the stage of dropping out ( possibly due to parental/financial pressures ) but are clearly not willing to Whatever they do , I try to refrain from judgements on their character as much as I can . When a student is not responsive to my teaching , it does not necessarily imply a judgement on me , either .
How do other uni 's deal with this ? I 've attended courses in two universities and have been an exam supervisor in another academical institution . In all those cases only one student could go to the bathroom at a time . A supervisor would accompany the student up to the bathroom door and wait until the student would return . Sure , the student could hide a book , laptop , anything in the toilet stall . If it 's a good exam these methods are not going to get the student anywhere as a good academical test requires that the student can use his brain , not just reproduce knowledge from a book . Therefore I think making a big deal of cheat prevention is not necessary . What 's the best solution ? Not allowing students to take bathroom breaks is inhumane . I think the solution I experienced and described above is the best you 'll get without exaggerating .
Your professional title is Ph.D. student , or doctoral student , or just student .
For fixing , I think the advice in the linked question is the way to go : contact the publisher and ask them to correct it . This is what errata are for , and it 's perfectly normal . I think the harder question is what to do about the future . On the one hand , the non-distinguishability of I and l are just going to keep causing problems ( as can be seen from this very sentence ! ) and you rarely have control of fonts . On the other hand , it 's your personal identity at stake . Do you really want to change your name for the sake of typography ? This is a problem that I see faced by a large number of researchers who do n't have names that perfectly transliterate into English . One of my French colleagues , for example , is very insistent on getting the accents correct on his name , while others just ignore it and let things fall to the lowest ( anglicized ) denominator . You 're going to need to make a decision based on your personal relationship with your identity . If it 's important to you , stick to your proper name and just know that you 're going to need to be proactive in checking and correcting in every paper you deal with . Fortunately , there 's usually a proof stage for just this type of issue . If you 'd rather not bother , then by all means embrace the simple lower-case solution . One way or another , though , you should settle on a decision by somewhere in the middle of graduate school . Do n't worry too much about some confusion in the early papers : if you make a career of research , the early papers will fade behind your later work ; if you do n't , it wo n't matter .
What I found useful was to be very watchful of how the interviewers act towards each other . Typically some sort of meal is part of an on-campus interview and you will be eating with several of the faculty members . If they ca n't make it through the meal without doing something objectionable you probably have a toxic environment . The funny thing is that they know to act properly towards you but will still forget to do so to their colleagues even though you are right there . As an example there was one such dinner where I was pressured into drinking alcohol the night before the real part of the interview and the junior ( and female ) faculty member who was present was the target of most of the jokes from the senior male faculty members . Both of these details did not help their chances of getting me to accept their offer . Fortunately I had another offer to take instead . This is by no means going to catch every situation you want to get away from but the general idea is to watch their behavior . In larger departments where the jerks are kept away from the candidates you may have to be more active in searching for these issues . I was mostly interviewing in small departments where I was able to meet everyone .
The strategy that I used was to divide the work into chunks and assign them to finite periods of time . Let 's say your exam is in three months and you have two books to read and two course notes to review . That means that you 'll have 12 weeks to study . The 12th week should be reserved for " hitting the hotspots " before your exam and general review of all the materials covered in weeks 1-11 . Then divide up material to be covered from the two books and two courses across the remaining 11 weeks . I would suggest that you divide it into 11 weekly topics . Assign reading to yourself . The goal of each week worth of studying is to create your own " cliff notes " for that week 's chunk of material that can be studied during week 12 . A good strategy to avoid burnout is to schedule time for no studying . This especially important since you have family . Make sure that you schedule your no study time during a time that they also want to interact with you . For example , no more studying after noon on Sundays would be a good amount of time . Since you do have family , also consider scheduling alone time for yourself where you get to do only what you want . Doing nothing , watching tv , or checking on your stackexchange questions are okay during that time . But make sure to limit those activities to only that time . Good luck !
Given the tags , I assuming you are talking about interviewing for a faculty position . ( Not that it really matters ; my answer would be the same for a graduate interview ) . In general : Having some notes that you look at between interviews -- e.g. on the research of each faculty member who you will meet -- is just fine and probably a good idea . I 'd just try to look at them unobtrusively , e.g. in the bathroom rather than while walking across campus with the chair . I would consider it extremely strange if a faculty candidate turned to notes or to the web to answer a question that I had just asked . Even thinking about the interview as an exam indicates a substantial misunderstanding about the process . You certainly should know things like your own research plans , the names of your collaborators , how you like to teach , etc. . There is an exception , though . If a candidate wants to show me something about her research , a laptop , tablet , or even printed paper can be quite useful . I 've had applicants use a tablet to very good effect in answering questions about their work . Not because they do n't remember -- that would be the kiss of death -- but because the tablet allows them to call up figures and illustrations that allow them to better explain the findings to me and/or go beyond what was printed in their papers .
Of course , whether it is a good idea can only be known in hindsight . But many PhD students work as private tutors , so if it sounds interesting to you , you might as well try it . Some things to consider : It will probably take you some time to prepare for each lesson . And unless your students will come to your home or office , also account for travel time and expenses . Four hours of lessons per week may require significantly more than four hours of your time . What will you do if your students are late to their lesson , or do n't show up at all ? What if they do n't study for their lessons ? What if they are late in paying you ? What if they ( or their parents ) demand some different style of tutoring than you had planned ? What if they demand that you just do their homework while they Facebook ? Consider the time it will take you to recruit students . Assume that they will quit unexpectedly , requiring you to find new students and lose income in the meantime . Do not count on your tutoring fees as steady income . Ethical issues : if you are working as a teaching assistant or something similar , you can not be a private tutor to students who are enrolled in your class . Check for other ethics or conflict of interest rules that your university may have . In particular , although your university office may seem like a convenient place to meet your private students , this may not be allowed .
To succeed in any highly competitive endeavour requires long , concentrated , hard work . To put this into something you hate would certainly be a novel type of masochism , even if not successful .
No , you should n't mention securing letters of recommendation in your personal statement . It sounds a little too mercenary , like you are more interested in bureaucratic outcomes like letters than you are in actually learning . It may hurt the feelings of faculty from your home institution who read it , and it 's not really what the other institution is looking for in a personal statement . On the other hand , you 're right that this experience could really help in securing compelling letters , and I think it 's sensible for you to take this into account in your ( private ) decision making . If you currently attend a strong research university , then getting letters from an even stronger research university probably wo n't help much . However , there are many students at teaching-focused schools that do n't send many students to graduate school in any given field , and very rarely to the top departments . That makes it harder for faculty to write strong letters of recommendation , because the comparison group is not so good : even if somebody writes " this is the best student I 've seen in 20 years " , it 's not clear that this is in itself a strong enough statement . ( It 's still possible to write a compelling letter if the recommender can offer enough concrete , impressive details , but it makes writing the letter harder and requires the recommender to know the applicant really well . ) If a faculty member can easily compare you with lots of students attending a range of good to great graduate schools , that makes it easier for them to write a useful letter . So if you 're studying in a department that rarely or never sends students to the graduate programs you 'd like to attend , then it 's very much worth trying to get a letter from someone who has a broader perspective on the applicant pool . Otherwise it 's not so important . But either way , you should n't mention it in your personal statement .
In the US in math my understanding is : For the NSF fellowship follows the rules to a T. For other postdocs there 's probably no harm in submitting an extra letter , but there 's also rarely a compelling reason to do so . For tenure track positions it is common , and not frowned upon , to submit 4 or 5 research letters instead of the requested 3 research letters . If you have a compelling reason to submit more ( for example , you work between two adjacent fields ) then go ahead , but if you do n't have a compelling reason you 're also not going to be penalized for sticking with 3 research letters . It 's better to have all the letters be great than to have more letters . There 's a lot of discussion about this in the comments on <URL> .
Of course , the best solution to this problem is not to have it in the first place . Being proactive and thinking about the future is sometimes a rare talent , especially in 18 year olds fresh out of high school , but then again grad school is supposed to select the exceptional individuals . There is a world of difference between a recommendation from someone you worked with , and from a mere acquaintance . The latter kind rarely benefits your application in a meaningful way , and can sometimes even hurt it . No matter how enthusiastic your instructor is , unless the course is at least a project-centric course ( eg . grade is based entirely on your individual term project ) , they will not be able to make a good , in depth argument for your abilities , and the recommendation will therefore be weak . The point of the recommendation is that the admissions committee will read it , and decide whether you have potential to be a good researcher . How can they , if the recommendation does not talk about your research at all ? And how much better if instead of hinting at your potential indirectly by citing course performance , the recommender can just say " this person has potential to be a great researcher because I have personally seen that they are good at research " ? This is why there is a qualitative difference . This can be a big problem when applying to a very selective program . What if you apply to a program where the committee has a philosophy that " an application is only as strong as its weakest link " ? Even if you are quite exceptional otherwise , you can get eliminated early on because there are many other applicants who are also exceptional , but do n't have a recommendation problem . Also , similar to how a lukewarm recommendation can mean " I think this person is a bad candidate , but I am not being negative out of politeness " , a recommendation from someone who only taught a course can mean " this person is a slacker who never bothered to do real work , so they ca n't find any supervisors to recommend them " . The best way to remedy is really to obtain more " good " recommenders . Because you want people who supervised you , the solution is obvious : You have n't been supervised by enough people who will vouch for you ; you must undertake more projects and be supervised by other people whose recommendation will carry weight . If still in school , look for faculty whose lab you can work in . If that is difficult , try approaching a former ( or current ) instructor with an idea for a theoretical or computational project ( this requires less commitment from them , so they may be easier to convince ) . It does n't necessarily have to be original research , so long as you can come up with a relatively long term ( at least half a year ) project where you are the primary contributor . It could also be ( more ) valuable to spend a summer working in a lab at a different university . If out of school , delay your application by 1-3 years , and look for work as a lab tech at a university , institute or private company . Make sure not to displease your boss . A related problem is working for a long time with the same person , for instance an undergrad who spends 3 years in the same lab . This is actually better , because you can accomplish much more in 3 years , and you can have a very impressive project to sell yourself with . The issue is that you will have only one supervisor - but hopefully after 3 years , you will have networked with collaborators and other scientists and will not have a problem there .
No ! US institutions expect that you have never seen your recommendation letters ; your references are supposed to upload/submit them directly to your target departments . But presumably you are uploading/submitting your own supporting documents . If the application web site somehow restricts you to naming only three references , then you only get three letters ; choose wisely . If it 's a paper application , just ask all your references to mail in their letters . ( I assume you are applying to a graduate program . )
When I was on the graduate admissions committee , for each application that I personally read , I would read all three reference letters . In general I would do this about as quickly as my reading speed allowed . If there was something especially notable in a letter , I would either mark it down or orally call my colleagues ' attention to it . In a substantial minority of cases I would look up the writer on the internet and get a sense of their academic profile . I estimate that the average amount of time I spent on the " first run " through a single application is about 6-10 minutes . For the majority of the applications , a first run is sufficient . But then when we get down to ranking the candidates in any group that could potentially get admitted , we go back and reread the applications as seriously as is required to make the rankings . This could conceivably involve comparing one letter to another . Relevant passages may get read out loud which takes ... as long as it takes . A well written graduate letter is not a subtle or difficult piece of writing : it makes a clear recommendation and lays out the evidence in a way which is apparent on a rather quick reading . As a rule of thumb , if I felt the need to spend much more than ten minutes on any single letter , I would consider contacting the writer directly and asking for more information and/or a clarification .
Assistant and Associate Professors in the US can be formally addressed by " Professor " or " Doctor/Dr . " . There should be no offense given with either salutation , and either is appropriate .
I agree with blackace that you should probably be OK , but let me sketch what some of the drawbacks are : Ideally , an application to math grad school will have recommendations from mathematicians . The further you get away from that , the less meaningful the letters are . ( For example , at least once per year I see a letter from an English professor , which is utterly unhelpful . ) The basic issue is that you need recommenders who really understand what it takes to succeed in math grad school and as a mathematician . Fortunately , physics is close enough that physicists can do a pretty good job of judging this , so you should be OK . In my experience , the admissions committee will worry about two things : One is that physicists may not appreciate certain math-specific issues . For example , the expected coursework and background . A physicist may not fully understand the extent to which someone 's background is nonstandard or deficient for the math program they are applying to . A second reason is the belief that most people 's standards go down a little when making recommendations for other fields . If someone is applying to the top schools in your field , you know very well what the standards and competition are like , and you have something invested in the system and your own reputation as a recommender . In practice , recommenders from other fields seem to be a little more cavalier about making strong recommendations based on a feeling that the applicant is smart , rather than a comparison with the rest of the applicant pool . This means recommendations with be taken with a grain of salt . So if you have equally good prospects for letters writers from math and physics , you should choose the mathematicians for math applications . On the other hand , a physicist who knows you is still a good choice , much better than a mathematician who does n't know you . ( But a mathematician who does n't know you is a better choice than an English professor who does . )
First , here is an answer to " What do letter writers tend to do when writing about men or women candidates ? " One difference I have seen mentioned in the literature but have not seen mentioned in the other answers : use of standout adjectives , words like " superb , " " outstanding , " and " excellent . " Specifically , in letters for 62 female and 222 male applicants to a medical faculty at a large American medical school in the mid-1990s : We developed a list of ' standout adjectives ' , namely ' excellent ' , ' superb ' , ' outstanding ' , ' unique ' , ' exceptional ' , and ' unparalleled ' . In tabulating the percentages of letters for female applicants and male applicants that included these terms , we found them to be similar ( 63 % for women and 58 % for men ) . And yet the letters for men read differently . Our gut reaction after reading many of these letters was that the men had been praised more highly with these terms than had the women . Thus we were led to consider frequency . That is , instead of coding mere occurrence of at least one of these terms in a letter , we coded for multiple occurrences . Here we found that the letters for women that had at least one of these terms had an average of 1.5 terms , whereas the letters for men that included at least one had an average of 2.0 such terms . That is , there was repetition of standout adjectives within men 's letters to a greater extent . Trix , F. , &amp; Psenka , C. ( 2003 ) . <URL> . Discourse &amp; Society , 14 ( 2 ) , 191-220 . And in letters written for 235 male and 42 female applicants for either a chemistry or biochemistry faculty position at a large U.S. research university : In line with Hypothesis 5 , results revealed a significant gender difference in how many standout adjectives ( e.g. outstanding , unique , and exceptional ) the recommender used to describe the candidate , F ( 1 , 278 ) = 3.95 , p = .05 . Consistent with the notion that implicit biases can influence how letter writers describe female candidates , recommenders described male candidates ( M = .70 ) with significantly more standout adjectives compared to female candidates ( M = .60 ) . To address the possibility that this difference could be accounted for by differences in the qualifications of male and female candidates , we conducted an ANCOVA that included number of publications , presentations , fellowships , postdoctoral positions , and number letters of recommendation as covariates . Even after removing variance in standout language due to any and all of these variables , the gender difference remained significant , p = .04 . There were no differences between departments in how many standout adjectives candidates ' letters included . The " standout words " from the latter study were : excellen * , superb , outstanding , unique , exceptional , unparalleled , * est , most , wonderful , terrific * , fabulous , magnificent , remarkable , extraordinar * , amazing , supreme * , unmatched Schmader , T. , Whitehead , J. , &amp; Wysocki , V. H. ( 2007 ) . <URL> . Sex Roles , 57 ( 7-8 ) , 509-514 . The latter study also found , however , that " results revealed more similarities than differences in letters written for male and female candidates . " A third study did not find a significant difference in use of standout adjectives by gender of the applicant . In a review of 763 letters for applicants to an otolaryngology/head and neck surgery ( OHNS ) residency program at Stanford University : The length of the letters was similar , as were the mean number of " standout " terms . However , this study did address your other question , " What do men and women tend to do differently when writing letters ? " : All 763 letters " recommended " the applicant for OHNS residency . Ninety-one percent of letters were written by men , 68.4 % by male otolaryngologists ( OTOs ) , 4.2 % by female OTOs , and 33 % by OHNS department chairs or division chiefs ( 100 % men ) . A comparison of female and male letter writers revealed five categories with significant differences : female letter writers were more likely to call an applicant a " team player " ( P = .000 ) , " compassionate , " ( P = .001 ) and use strings of adjectives ( P = .024 ) . In contrast , they were less likely when compared with male letter writers , to mention an applicant 's personal life ( P = .003 ) , or write " letters of minimal assurance " ( P = .035 ) . In more detail : Male letter writers were more likely ( 28 % of letters compared with 10 % of letters by female letter writers ) to comment on the candidate 's personal life , sometimes discussing the candidate 's family history ( e.g. , immigration from another country ) , major accomplishments ( e.g. , biking across the United States ) , or hobbies ( e.g. , fly fishing ) . Female letter writers tended to discuss the applicant in terms of his or her professional accomplishments only . They were also more likely to mention that the applicant was a " team player " and " compassionate . " Women were more likely to use a string of adjectives to describe the applicant . Some researchers assert that the use of stringing terms is used to substitu
end question
start question
What 's the correct way to cite a paper cited by another paper ?
In APA style , you can write , ( e.g. , <URL> ) Featherstone et al 1900 ( as cited in Thomas and Cullen 2002 ) Of course , in general you should try your best to read the original and cite the original directly .
I 'm not aware of any reason you could n't cite work of a family member . Indeed , a tenet of academic work is to cite your sources and give references appropriately , so due credit is given to previous works . Were you not to cite your grandfather ( or indeed anyone else 's work you reference ) , that in itself would be the improper behaviour . It is normal ( and often necessary ) to cite your own work as well - in order to avoid self-plagiarism , you need to reference any previous works by yourself if you use them in a future work , so as not to be re-presenting the same work repeatedly and claiming it as new every time . Regarding clarifying points , that would n't be a problem - it is actively encouraged to discuss and collaborate with others in research . Authors place their email addresses and affiliations on publications to facilitate private conversation and discussion with other researchers , and often this is how collaborations and future advances happen . Conferences are also organised with the principle aim of facilitating dialogue and further discussion between researchers . You would be able to cite information from clarifications with him as personal correspondence type references , and I do n't see a reason you would need an appendix to quote the actual correspondence . In the event that there were to be any kind of potential for conflict of interest , you obviously should disclose it as such . Also , if you are significantly referencing personal correspondence with your grandfather , he may be making sufficient intellectual contribution to be considered an author of the paper . Simple clarification of points in already-published works would n't be an issue ( otherwise I 'd be an author on any paper as a result of an email I replied to ! ) , but significant intellectual contribution or addition of new material would probably require you to regard him as an author . For assistance and clarifications which do n't constitute author him , you could add an acknowledgement to the paper to express recognition of the assistance and advice given . Disclaimer - there may be discipline specific nuances here I am not aware of , most probably around how to cite personal correspondence , since it 's not something I 've had to do before . The requirements to declare authorship may also vary between disciplines and publications based on their regulations .
First , I think you are worrying too much . Second , I think it is bad form on the part of the authors . If the material on the website is critical for the paper , it needs to be provided in an archival form that the journal can keep track of . I would evaluate it based on what you have been given .
Usually , the scheme of a scientific study has a hourglass shape scheme , from wide , to narrow , and wide again . In the first wide , we use the introduction to describe the general topography and bring focus to a particular problem . Then we narrow down to describe how our experiment is designed , data are collected , analysis is done , etc. . When results are ready , we interpret them , and then again widen up the scope to talk about implications , applications , and recommendations in the Discussion section . In my opinion , objectives are a list of actions to perform , or questions to answer so that you can complete the narrow part of the study scheme . Contributions are a list of applications or significance to other researchers that brought about by your work , and they are perhaps more fitting in the second wider part of the study scheme . For instance , the objective of a project could be " to validate a low cost blood glucose measurement device . " And if it is indeed valid , the contribution could be " allow more people to afford to measure their glucose , and potentially lead to better diabetes control in the population . "
The rules for a German professor are quite different than for a typical German employee . The first thing to note is that you will be a Beamter , which is a very special class of government employees . In particular , you are automatically exempted from the public healthcare system , as well as having to make direct payments into the social security system out of your paycheck . Instead , the pension payments are covered by your employer ( the government of the Land in which you work ) , while the Beihilfe system helps to defray part of your insurance costs ( the rest of which you pay for through a private insurance contract ) . In other words : you get billed for your health care ; your private insurance reimburses you for 50 percent of your costs , and 30 percent of the costs for other family members . You submit the remainder of the bill to the university , which reimburses the remaining 50 percent ( 70 percent ) . The net result of this is that you get a much higher percentage of your income as take-home pay relative to a traditional government employee . Your tax status depends on your marital status , so as a W1 , you can expect to take home somewhere between 2800 and 3200 euros per month , as reported by the <URL> website . There are some differences due to cost of living in different states . However , expect to pay about 200 $ per month for health care , or more if you have a family . However , I should also note that just this week came down a new <URL> from the German Federal Constitutional Court stating that the salaries for professors hired since 2005 are too low , and need to be adjusted . This has the potential to adjust salaries upwards somewhat -- although it is not yet clear by how much . ( The state of Hesse , against whom the ruling was made , has until January to adjust its salaries upwards . ) To answer your other questions : There are no ranks between W1 and W2 . The base salary is nonnegotiable , as it 's set by the state government for which you will work ; however , you can negotiate some terms of your " package " ( support for students and other workers ) , and you may be able to get some " performance bonuses " negotiated into the contract . Teaching duties are set by federal law , and are similarly nonnegotiable ( although you can negotiate the ability , for instance , to teach in English rather than German ) Bonuses are not available for single people with no children ; instead , according to German law , they 're actually taxed at a higher rate . There is no difference in salary based on nationality .
I would distinguish between two papers in parallel ( as in your example ) versus a history of bad papers . If I 'm seeing a good paper and a bad paper that share an author , and I do n't yet know that author well , then the bad paper probably wo n't affect my opinion of the good paper too badly ( unless we are talking really embarrassingly bad ) . I 'll have a mixed opinion , but I 'm still forming it . On the other hand , there are certainly some authors who have built up a history with me such that I see their paper and think : " Oh no , I hope they 've learned from last time . "
Is it possible that you misjudge why your advisor wants to see the other prof. on the paper ? You say that the reason is that he was " declared as my second adviser on the project " ... but then you go on to explain that he actually was part of the discussions leading to the paper , so it does not , or at least not entirely , sound like a courtesy co-authorship to me . Of course , you ( and maybe even your advisor ) do not value the input he had , but unilaterally throwing him off the paper for this reason is a dangerous road to go down . If he had any part in actually doing the research or writing the paper , I would at least talk to the guy first and ask him whether he thinks that he contributed enough to become an author . However , prepare that there is a non-zero chance that the answer to this question will be " sure , I advised you regularly on the project since it 's start , why would n't I be a co-author ?? " ( and mean it ! ) . Decide in advance how you will react to this . Note that , if the prof. feels this way , there is likely no way to remove him from the paper without him being annoyed or worse . Your task then becomes to decide whether you want to add him to the paper purely to keep relations intact ( or not ) .
The challenge here is seems to be to ensure that if the reviewers do stumble across your thesis , then the failure mode will be penetrating blinding rather than accusations of plagiarism . It is my belief that with an " extract " paper like this , the thesis should be cited in any case . In most cases , there will be some connection to other portions of the thesis that could motivate such a citation ( e.g. , a motivation or an application ) . I also think that it is good to explicitly acknowledge the relationship to the thesis , e.g. , " This manuscript is based on work also presented in [ cite ] " , though the customs of your field may differ . Then you can appropriately blind the citation to the thesis , e.g. , " Ph.D. thesis , blinded for review . " This makes the relationship clear without violating blinding . At that point , you are preserving blinding to the best of your ability , and while a reviewer can certainly try to penetrate blinding if they want , you certainly wo n't run into any problems with misunderstanding about plagiarism .
It depends how well-known and wide-spread the result is . If by now it is a very well-known result and the publication already happened quite some time ago , it may not be necessary to quote the original paper . In doubt I 'd quote the article and the books , or at least one of the books . A possible formulation could be : The result below is due to Paul [ reference to article ] ; we recall it in the form given in a monograph by Miller [ reference to book ] . I do not think it is necessary to have read the original paper to be entitled to write this . If it is not too much work to track it down , it could still make sense to at least take a peek at the article you quote .
The main point to consider is probably that of success . The relevant questions here are : Can you address the justified criticism ? Can you convince the editor or even the reviewers that the unjustified criticism is really unjustified ? Do you think that you can convince the editor to consult the opinion of yet another referee ? How much of the rejection is based on predominantly opinionated aspects , such as relevance and scope ( e.g. , " not enough physics " ) ? Apart from some exceptional cases ( e.g. , if you can actually add something to the manuscript that increases the relevance ) , such criticism is difficult to address . Are the reviews criticising the same or different aspects ? Some examples : You have three reports . All criticise a lack of relevance . They may or may not criticise other aspects . -- Resubmitting is very likely a waste of time . Lack of relevance is a killer argument and most of the time , swaying a referee means convincing them that they erred in their assessment , which even in academia few people are capable of admitting . And you probably have to sway at least two referees . Moreover you have to convince the editor that you properly addressed the issues , so there will even be another round of review . It 's unlikely that the editor will consult additional referees . You have two reports . The first one only criticises the lack of relevance but has no other major point of criticism . The second one finds the manuscript relevant but strongly criticises a technical aspect , which you can address . -- The second referee can probably be easily satisfied . Unless the first referee has overlooked something essential , it will be difficult to sway them . However , the referees are one-to-one on this matter and by addressing it , you may convince the editor . Another possibility is that the editor consults the opinion of a third referee . You have two reports . Both are negative but outrageously sloppy : For example , they criticise claims you never made , base their criticisms on misunderstandings they could not possibly have noticed as such or ask you to discuss alternative approaches which you did already discuss . -- You can easily address the criticism and possibly sway a referee that is more awake during the second round . If you make your case clear , you may also convince the editor to consult new referees . Another aspect to consider is that of time : If at least some referees will be used again in the second round of review , this round is usually going to be faster , as it reduces or eliminates the time spent on finding appropriate referees and waiting for referees that decline to review . Moreover a referee that is already familiar with a manuscript needs less time to review it . If you manage to convince the editor that some of the referees from the first round were not properly doing their job , this may lead to a speed-up of the next round . If a major hurdle is the editor accepting your rebuttal , you waste little time if you fail , as such a decision usually happens quite quickly . Depending on the constraints of alternative journals , submitting your manuscript there may require some rewriting work . Therefore , even if you consider a resubmission to be less likely to succeed than a submission to the next journal , it may result in the least average time to publication . Finally , you have to consider the number of journals that exist on the desired level and that are appropriate for your manuscript in terms of scope , length and possible other constraints . If there are only few such journals , you are more likely to exhaust your options and thus resubmitting is more likely to be worth the effort and time .
Cite the journal name that was used at the time of publication . For example , the British Medical Journal officially changed title to BMJ in 1988 . Cite articles from 1987 and earlier as Br Med J , not BMJ . ( Source : <URL> . )
This is simply shorthand for curriculum vitae , also called a CV or resume . He 's just asking you to send him your resume so he can list stuff you 've done when writing your letter .
If a person receives an invitation , the responsibility to deliver will be with that person . That does not necessarily mean that person will be first author although I suspect it will most frequently be the case . There are many posts on academia.sx that deal with first authorships so I do not think I need to replicate many good answers here . Suffice it to say that you need to discuss the authorship with your advisor . Unfortunately , this should have been done early on because lack of an agreement on authorship ordering early on is what usually leads to conflicts in the end . I am not saying this applies in your case but the fact that you ask seems to go in that direction . For authorship and contributorship discussions I can point you to two posts in <URL> and <URL> . There are many other sources but they provide the core ideas on author/contributorship . It is easy to agree with these ideas , more difficult to live by them , particularly in a student-advisor relationship .
On the one hand , referees can reject your paper for all sorts of foolish reasons . I would not if I were refereeing , but that means nothing for some random person with an axe to grind . I would n't worry about this scenario too much though , because it would require some relatively extreme timing to happen . On the other hand , even if it did happen , if people are citing you and you are having an impact , is it really that much of a problem if the paper is " just " in arXiv ? Only the most blind and foolish Impact Factor junkies would hold the lack of brand name against you . Also , you will write many papers in your career , and I would be startled if such a situation happened more than once .
There is nothing special about the initial date of submission . As such , it is entirely acceptable to add new citations , including for recently published papers , at any stage except for some journals ' final proofing ( where they really just want to confirm their formatting and copy-editing ) . Moreover , in many cases it is not just acceptable but required , especially given that review may be a very lengthy process . For example , I am in the middle of a revision right now of a paper that had an unusually long initial review for my field -- from first submission to submission of the revision will be nearly 18 months . In the revision , we will most certainly be citing new work , including some of our own other recently published work , as a necessary part of addressing the comments of the reviewers . So , in short : yes , cite whatever is useful to cite , regardless of its publication date .
For any well established research , they will usually have quite a large number of citations , which would make a " cited by " section would be exhausting to maintain and large beyond meaningful readability . A better route is to link to an database that actually engages in curating ones citations , such as Google Scholar . I do , however , sometimes see people maintaining a collection of notable articles in non-scientific media . These are not normally picked up by citation databases and are valuable for showing that work is having impact outside of the scientific community , as well as ( sometimes ) providing a nice introduction to the work .
I actually disagree with <URL> , and having judged a fair number of high-end science fairs myself ( not Intel , granted , but the all-Chicago science fair , which is essentially an Intel qualifier ) , took something different away from it . I am also close friends with a number of Intel finalists , and have discussed their experiences in depth . While most of the high schoolers at this level of science fair are extremely intelligent and will eventually become great , independent drivers of research , at this level they typically are not there yet . Their projects , for the most part , are designed by a faculty member or senior grad student/post doc , and the student is guided through the many experimental steps involved until they find something , at which case , because the research was done in a university lab and it is already better than 98 % of other science fair projects ( which are usually done at home with minimal resources ) , they typically do very well in science fairs . Occasionally , one of the students is truly head and shoulders above everyone else , and can operate somewhat autonomously in a lab setting and can ask and answer their own questions - essentially at the level of an older graduate student . But , like a graduate student , they typically still need the oversight of a senior person who " gets " research . I realize that this response is mostly to the answer given above , and not the the main question , but I felt strongly that the answer needed to be addressed . As for prodigies : In the sciences , which require tons of background knowledge to even know what 's going on ( see : cancer ) , I have never , ever , heard of a true prodigy who could , for example , be running a 15 person cancer research lab , writing papers , etc. . You do n't just " understand " cancer the way some people " understand " math , innately . In math , the story is much different . There are always math prodigies , and they typically get tenure in their early twenties ( see : Manjul Bhargava , Charles Fefferman , etc. ) There are , of course , CS " prodigies " who are good at coding and creative enough to think of something that has n't been done . But this is n't really what you are talking about . tl ; dr : there are no true " prodigies " in science . There are in math , though .
Unless the paper is available under a very permissive license , such as <URL> , you will need to seek permission . ( There may be other legal possibilities , such as fair use or fair dealing , but that 's a little subtle . See <URL> for more information on that . ) The copyright owner is the person you need permission from . Who that is will generally be marked on the published paper ( often it is the publisher , and sometimes the author ) . If the publisher holds the copyright , then it is still polite to ask permission from the authors as well , although this is not legally required . Big commercial publishers will often have a department for dealing with this , typically with a name like " Permissions " . If you ca n't find such a department , then you can try just writing to the journal in question ( look at their web page to try to find e-mail addresses ) . If you are lucky , they will quickly approve your use of the figure . If you are not lucky , they will ask for money . And , finally , how does the answer vary for ( a ) those wishing to republish the figure in their own work , There are definitely legal issues here . ( b ) those not wishing to publish the figure e.g. for student coursework . If you never make the work available to the public , then it is hard to imagine that the copyright owner will ever learn about it or complain ( and they would look foolish if they tried to sue someone for using their figure in a homework assignment ) . However , you still have a moral obligation to cite the source of the figure .
From an ethical point of view , you must cite your original source appropriately . Clearly indicate when you are using ideas , words , or figures from another work by citing the source when you use something verbatim ( typically by putting it in quotation marks or blockquotes ) As long as you attribute your sources properly , there is n't really an ethical problem with excessive use of a source . From a legal perspective , it can be trickier . In summary , Copying large amounts of text verbatim : may violate copyright Copying small amounts of text verbatim , for academic purposes : typically allowed under <URL> , though like everything legal , this varies by jurisdiction Paraphrasing text : does not violate copyright . The intellectual content of a paper is not subject to copyright ( as opposed to the words used to present it , which are ) . Reusing figures : may violate copyright . Check the policy of the source 's publisher . From a " best practices " standpoint , work that involves an excessive amount of paraphrasing is often lacking original intellectual content . Even if your work is expository , you 're supposed to be adding some value for the reader , not just stating the content of the original source in other words . So be careful of this , too :)
This depends on the customs of the field and the venue . I will answer based upon my experience from an HCI-related subfield of CS : Conferences usually have some requirement of novelty for published works . Therefore , if a paper associated with the poster already appeared in some proceedings of the first conference , you might not fulfil this requirement . First , however , some different cases might apply : If the poster was not " formally published " ( i.e. did not appear as a ( short ) paper in any kind of proceedings ) , you should be good to go . If the poster was supposed to be " formally published " , but the conference organizers never got around to setting up the proceedings of the poster session , you 're in a bit of an inconvenient situation . Your work is not published in a way that it can be cited ( well , it can , but it does n't look as verifiable as other papers and is not archived by any publisher ) , but it has been presented . You may want to contact the conference organizers in this case whether publishing your work again is ok , or else you may want to wrap your work in something larger ( i.e. present something new , but reiterate the points from the poster as a part of the exposition ) . Even if your poster was published in some kind of proceedings , there may be some options : Posters are often allowed to present work in progress . If your poster ( and the connected paper ) was presented in a way to present work in progress , your new conference paper might indeed present the final state of whatever you devised . This can essentially match the content of your poster , but provide more details ( see also below ) . Even if the poster presented final results , the term " results " seems to be seen in a very wide sense at least in my fields , possibly in others . A full conference paper provides much more space than a poster paper , and on the poster , you probably presented different ( more visual ) things than you would in text . As such , you can shift the focus of your conference paper compared to the poster ; where the poster focused on the results , the conference paper might discuss the methods used to obtain the results in depth , including design decisions , citations of similar experiments , a verification of the reliability of your experiments , etc. . This kind of description can be useful for the community and subsequent works , and as such should provide enough new content , despite being based upon the same material as the poster .
end question
start question
Which is better , a paper with pedantic vocabularies or a paper easy to read ?
There is a third way : Be pedantic about your vocabulary in the right way to make your paper more readable . Using established , clear , and consistent vocabulary and defining it when necessary is the best way to ensure that you are not misunderstood . The main advantage of " simple and easy words " is that they do not need to be explained to the reader , but this also entails that you rely on the reader interpreting these words the same way as you do , which may be not given surprisingly often . Defined vocabulary does not have this disadvantage . Moreover , you need to at least need to mention the established , " pedantic " vocabulary for context and to avoid the impression of reinventing the wheel . By consistently sticking to it , you avoid switching between different terms for the same thing , which usually impedes intelligibility . However , you should also bear in mind that readers unfamiliar with this vocabulary may want to read your paper . For these readers , define the more uncommon words and cite papers explaining the basic underlying concepts . Papers are not difficult to read because they contain new words , but because these words are not properly explained or because the reader does not understand the concepts represented by them . For example if you write a paper on theoretical particle physics , readers will have to understand some elementary aspects of quantum theory to follow your thoughts . Using vocabulary that can only appeal to readers without this basic understanding of quantum theory is pointless and only raises false expectations . Finally , if you get to introduce new concepts , you can try to choose words for them appeal to intuition , but this does not mean that you are relieved from the burden of explaining these words .
If you want a hands-on approach then Engineering Physics seems like the logical option , if , however , you want to think about the problems on a more abstract level , Computational Physics seems like the right choice . Since you are doing Computer Science , you probably love , as many of us do , the power of coding languages , and might feel more comfortable using these to solve problems , once again that would mean computational physics might be more your thing . The real question is how you want to deal with these new technologies . If you want to really work with these new technologies , I 'd opt for engineering physics . You might want to take a look at some of the courses in these master programs and see which suit you more , or you could engage with master students of these courses to get a better insight in the course .
Most journals require that the submitted manuscript has not been submitted total or partially to any other journal . Of course different policies apply to open access journals . If I were you I would check the journal 's policy regarding this issue and contact the editors if necessary to get their opinion ( probably they will require details on what will be duplicated ) . To the very least discuss this with your supervisor . You can find yourself in a very unpleasant position if you are not careful ( not to mention having your papers rejected ) , as indicated by @Enthusiastic Student
If the conference is well-known enough , then it is n't necessary to name the keynote speaker , because the conference will be recognized regardless . If the conference is n't well-known in the field , name-dropping is going to come across crass and not very helpful . So in either case , I do n't see any advantage to name-dropping .
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
It might be viewed as incivil to refer to someone else 's work as " obsolete " , whether or not one could defend such a claim . An editor or referee might object to the title , too , and , perhaps even be subliminally biased against your result because of a too-aggressive title . That is , " provocative " in the sense of more-vividly-descriptive , without too-direct negativism about prior work , might be a very good thing . But I think if " provocative " too much means " antagonistic " , the net would be counterproductive and regrettable . Asserting that you 've made progress is already a bit aggressive , suggesting , as is inevitable , that previous work is being superceded ( even if still relevant as some sort of historical/dialectic record ) . My own taste is that winners can afford to be generous . Edit : in light of edits to the question ... I 'd still encourage a sort of " innocent " - seeming , or almost-apologetic seeming , self-description . My point would be that people who understand the situation will see the implications of even a very-modest statement . Descriptiveness is good , yes , but perhaps not " judgemental " phrases .
The point of a survey paper of the type you are discussion ( as distinct from a systematic review ) , is to provide an organized view of the current state of the field . As such , you should not be attempting to cite every paper , but only the ones that are significant ( which will still be an awful lot ) . Writing a good survey paper is hard , and there really are n't any good shortcuts : you do need to become familiar with the content of a very large number of papers , in order to make sure that the view you are presenting is sane . My suggestion , based on my own experience in this area , is to use the following iterative process : Begin by collecting a large pile of papers to survey . Based on your experience and a few initial readings , hypothesize an organization schema for the field . Start reading ( mostly skimming ) and organizing your collection of papers you read using this schema , including noting which ones are most important and which do not fit the schema well . As you find significant numbers of papers that do not fit the schema well , adjust the schema to better fit what you are actually finding and shift the organization of your collection to match . Add new papers to the " to be read " collection based on the adjusted schema , then return to reading and organizing . When the process converges to a stable schema and an empty to-be-read pile , you will have a well-developed view of the current state of the field and be in a good position to write a survey . Note , however , that this may take a number of months ...
The best place to begin to look for collaborators are researchers who are currently publishing in your topic/field of interest . I would recommend contacting the authors of journal articles you read and can contribute to the topic in a significant manner ( enough to be published ) . Contact the researcher and suggest a collaboration , with what skills and expertise you bring to the table and your intended result of collaboration .
Whether the articles were paywalled or not , you should resolve your problem in three steps : Content license : check if you can find a version of the figure with liberal licensing terms . The paywalled version certainly does not fit the bill ... but you may find the same figure ( or a similar one ) in a pre-print version of the paper , under a different license . Obtaining permission for use : even if the content is not available under a free license , the publisher can grant you permission to reproduce the image . Nowadays , many publishers use a nice interface called Rightslink . If you look for example at this <URL> from the American Chemical Society ( which is far from being the most liberal of publishers ) , you can see a " Rights and permissions " link . In that particular example , the publisher will grant you reproducing of up to 4 figures of the paper on the internet , even on a for-profit website . Fair use : the fair use doctrine is a tricky , murky area of US copyright law . It 's not as wide as people generally assume . It has to be judged on a case-by-case basis : see <URL> and <URL> . See <URL> a notorious case from back in 2007 which is very close to your particular case . So , my own conclusion on fair use : it 's nice in principle , but unless you 're ready to hire a lawyer to double-check ( or get formal training on that ) , just play it safe .
Publishing things that you know are erroneous is a good way to get a really bad scientific reputation . Depending on how severe it is , it might go so far as to be labelled fraud and formally sanctioned , basically killing your career . If it 's important , then yes , you need to fix it . If it 's not published yet , then fix it before you publish it . If it 's published , then you will need to submit a correction or possibly even a retraction . Good scientists do this , and <URL> .
Should I also use a name for my system ? What are the advantage or disadvantage of it ? In the following , I will assume the author name " Mary Miller " and the system name " MSOAP " ( " Miller 's solution of all problems " ) , as well as the additional author name " Oswald Otherman " for the sake of explanation . Advantages : It will be easier for other authors to refer to your work . Rather than a convoluted expression such as " the system proposed by Miller " , they can simply write " MSOAP " . Work by other authors that directly extends the original system can continue using the same name . Rather than " Otherman 's extension of the system proposed by Miller " , it is " Otherman 's MSOAP variant " , or ( if the overall system structure remains the same ) even still " MSOAP " ( just with the reference to Otherman 's work rather than Miller 's , if it 's the aspects introduced by Otherman that are actually talked about ) . If the system was not created by one sole author ( even if the scientific contribution focused in the first paper that mentions the system is by Miller ) , it is even much fairer to refer to the system with a name rather than linking it to a single author . The system name is more specific for a certain work than the author 's name . Even if the system might be expanded in several iterations , it is still probably centered around one core topic or approach . Hence , searching for " MSOAP " will always yield results related to the desired topic . At the same time , Mary Miller might create several different systems throughout her career that focus on wildly different things , so the same can not be said about searching for " Mary Miller " . Disadvantages : The name of the system 's creator is not quite as apparent any more , as it does not directly pop up in each sentence referring to the system . However , the author name is by no means concealed ; the system name " MSOAP " still provides a very good starting point for finding more information about the project ( including attribution ) , and the reference to thus-related papers in the bibliography contains the author information , as well . Therefore , whoever wants to know who contributed to MSOAP will face no real obstacles finding out . Neutral : Finding unique system names is increasingly difficult . " MSOAP " might refer to a number of unrelated projects . On the other hand , the same can be said about an author 's name , as " Miller " is not in any way less ambiguous . Another issue with a self-chosen system name , as suggested by <URL> , could be that you pick a name that you do not like any more at a later point in time . On the other hand , you might also dislike your personal name . If you do not pick a name for your system , there is even a slight chance that people citing your work end up associating it with a name that you do not like . Your mileage may vary on which one of these is least desirable or most likely . Therefore , my conclusion is : By all means , do whoever wants to refer to your work a favour and provide a name for your system . Are there any conventions or guidelines for it or for the names ? No , and there are various factors that influence why there is no general answer to this question : First of all , this is very field-specific . Some communities might enjoy reading fancy names that contain some kind of slight jokes or at least convey something in a witty acronym ( like <URL> : Schrr , A. : PROGRES , A Visual Language and Environment for PROgramming with Graph REwriting Systems . Technical Report , RWTH Aachen , Germany , 1994 . ) , whereas others might have a strong preference towards more descriptive names . For systems developed as a part of a larger project , it can be a nice touch to pick a uniform naming scheme . ( As a fictional example , there could be " MSOAP " , " MSOAP-W " for weather-related solutions , " MSOAP-L " for literature-related solutions , and so on . ) Maybe you even want to develop a certain recognizeable style as an author and therefore try to establish a uniform method of naming your systems over the years . As a clarification , system names need by no means always be acronyms . A system name such as " Ultimate Solution " is totally fine . Just provide something that can be used as a ( composite ) noun .
It 's a matter of style : both bold and italic are typographically acceptable ways to emphasize part of your text , as are small caps , use of a different typeface or point size . ( And , if you wonder : no , <URL> ) . However , you are right that using bold is usually reserved for <URL> ( think things like " Danger of electrocution -- do not use under water " is an appliance user 's manual ) . The reason it is not commonly used inside <URL> is that it disrupts the overall level of gray of the page , drawing the eye from too far away : you want emphasis to make certain words stand out in the sentence , but you do not want the reader to skip directly to these words as soon as they set their eyes on the page . There are , of course , always exceptions ... like when you use bold ( or color , or any other device that disrupt the grayness of the text ) , to emphasize a few stand-alone " take home messages " from a longer text , as I 've done above !
I think it is not important which option makes your paper look good , but the best question here is " what is the right thing to do ? " If you are such a talented and hardworking undergraduate student who can write a publishable paper , you will certainly have a very bright future in grad school and later as a researcher . So , do n't worry how your first paper is going to be evaluated or cited . Hopefully you will write better papers and you can prove yourself in the future . Regarding publishing research papers , the right thing to do is that you publish your paper as perfect as it is possible for you at the moment , which means it is better you add the solution ( and one more co-author ) to your paper .
I have presented powerpoint slides by : voice call while screen sharing the window with the presentation ( works quite well ) video call with slides behind me , having emailed the slides to the audience beforehand ( works well for smaller audiences as long as you remember to say " next slide " or similar when you change . Sounds like it would be annoying but everyone gets used to it very quickly ) . I have also seen record the presentation offline , replay as a video and have a skype q &amp; a afterwards ( this was odd , I would n't recommend it ) . Final tips : Do a practice run with your supervisor/colleague over Skype Make sure you have reliable , fast internet ( at my University that still means a wire ) and a quiet room
Reviewers can only recommend acceptance or rejection ( or a major or minor revision ) . It 's the editor 's responsibility to weigh the reviews , along with the manuscript , and decide . After all , you will often have multiple reviewers . And they will usually not even know who else is reviewing a given manuscript . So how else could you decide what to do with a manuscript where two reviewers recommend a major revision , while the third recommends rejection ?
The practical aspects of detecting plagiarism in text probably fall under the purview of Computer Science as @Davidmh discussed in <URL> , but developing these kinds of tools and actually applying them to detect malfeasance are very different things . <URL> is the professional career path that pertains most directly to the issue of detecting and exposing plagiarism . Many universities offer degrees and fellowships in journalism with exactly this focus : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Some of the things that I have seen white-papers be useful for : Position papers , manifestos , and other intellectual opinion statements . Disseminating protocols , techniques , standards proposals , and other things that are useful but " below the threshold " of a normal publication Seeding discussions with program managers and other potential funders and collaborators . Date-stamping a piece of work so you can get it out of your queue and move on . Much better a white paper in an informal repository than a disreputable journal . Sometimes white papers end up " upgrading " into proposals or publications of various types -- sometimes very high impact publications . Sometimes they even draw a surprising amount of citations . Mostly , though , they are for the less formal side of scientific life . A well-regarded white paper sort of statement can <URL> . One thing that I think is very important is , for any white paper that you are disseminating publicly , to get it into some archival location . There are a number of methods for this , from arXiv to standards RFCs to institutional technical report collections . If do this , it will be much easier for people to cite your white paper , pass it around , and generally disseminate it . And if it 's persistent , you can feel much more comfortable adding it you your C.V. . .
I would use some of the following : submitted under review submitted to ... and do not stress that there is already a revision going on . Even revised papers may get rejected , so being in revision is no guarantee to get the paper published . I also would not state the journal to which the paper is submitted to because I do not see how this says anything about the quality of the paper . If you think , that the paper is good and interesting for whoever reads the CV , make it available as a preprint and provide a link . I myself have a section " Preprints " in my CV where I list submitted but not published papers with links to the arXiv and add the line " submitted , month , year " .
In general , ' comments ' can be comments in support or comments in disagreement . Usually people tend to only submit comment when they are moved strongly to point out a disagreement . But , as question specifically referred to Nature 's " <URL> " ( BRA ) the answer is NO . The BRA notes that " Submissions should challenge the main conclusions of the Nature paper and contain new , unpublished data to support the arguments . " . ( i.e. , pointing out errors , reinterpreting conclusions , coming to a different end result , comments to refute ) . Showing that there is an alternative method that is better than that presented in the paper does n't seem to fall under that ' challenge ' to the paper . ( Unless perhaps you can write it as challenging some final conclusion that their method is the best possible ever ? ) They offer the option to add extensive comments under the paper on the website . But then it will be difficult for others to be able to cite or even find your work . It sounds as if you should find a journal and submit your your method as improvement in XX algorithm/method , citing the original Nature paper . For comments and criticism there is a brilliant new service of pre - and post-publication reviews called Publons . For example , a <URL> of a sensational paper in Nature . Each review is assigned a DOI , so others may easily cite your comments . Also , it is well covered with Altmetric , which provides quite a visibility to your comment . Yet , no official impact factor for you reply publication .
Yes . Publication requires both the consent of the publisher ( via the editor or program committee ) and the consent of the authors . If you do not consent to publish under the conditions imposed by the publisher , you can just say no .
end question
start question
Asked editor for review prolongation to do further experiments , ca n't meet deadline . What do ?
Based on the reviews and the willingness of the editor to provide an extension , your paper clearly is worth it for the journal . You should definitely contact the editor , briefly explain the problems ( do n't focus on excuses but on what remains to be done ) you have had to meet the deadline and ask what can be done . It will be advantageous to provide a solid plan for the remaining work so that this is clear from the beginning to the editor . So assess the remaining work , make up a realistic plan for what is required and provide this to the editor . If all this requires the assistance of your advisor then plan it together . In the end , it will be up to the editor to provide an extension and a clear plan is necessary . In my own experience as editor , I much more appreciate realistic plans than optimistic ones that fail . In your case it seems as a case of force majeur and such things happen . I am , however , always suspicious of long excusing accompanying letters since I really do not care about the reasons but need to focus on the timing of revisions for planning issues and the like .
Can you contact an Associate Editor or another member of the editorial board ? More than 18 months with no communication does seem excessively long and the lack of response from the editor suggests something is wrong . You might also try the secretary in the editor 's department and ask her if she can get in touch with him . If you do n't hear back from them either , I would withdraw the paper and submit it somewhere else . Hopefully , there 's a way to do that in the online system -- but if not , contacting them one last time with the notification should be sufficient . They ca n't publish the paper without you signing some forms .
Usually you apply for these types of bottom - and mid-tier positions through the human resources ( HR ) departments of the universities . This is the same in the UK or the USA . If you search on the HR website , they will give jobs and the requirements for those jobs . For example , the first example below is a job posting that I pulled from the University of Illinois HR department 's website . You will note that it requires a high-school degree or GED . This is rather typical . When I last hired a staff person , we required an Associates degree or equivalent work experience . The " equivalent work experience " allows us to hire people without an AA degree if we feel that they have enough skills even without the credentials . The second example below is from Cambridge University in the UK . It notes that you must have at least A levels for this position . Note that many universities in the USA have union contracts for their clerical and technical staff . This makes applying for jobs as an outsider very difficult because the union contracts usually stipulate that jobs are first filled from job pool candidates ( i.e. , union members ) . This may likely be true for the UK as well .
I think it helps a lot here to understand the American cultural context , and in particular the liberal arts model of education that is quite common in the US . The GRE , and the departments and universities that care most about them , thinks of graduate training as pointing towards a career as a professor , not as a researcher . In the US , the majority of jobs as professors have teaching ( at the university level ) as a valued component , and in the US , students at university are supposed to take a broad range of courses rather than courses focused on a single area of study . This means that professors are also teaching an audience that is n't solely focused on their subject but rather students with a wide range of interests ( at least in the ideal case - in non-ideal cases , they may be teaching students with no interests ) . Even though I 'm a mathematician and teach only mathematics courses , I think I am a better teacher ( and academic advisor ) because I know a fair amount about philosophy , religion , history , literature , economics , sociology , computer science , and so on . I 'm not an expert in any of these things , and I make this clear , but I can make analogies to a broad range of ideas and use them in conversation with students . For an American , the vocabulary section of the GRE is meant to test , not whether you can memorize the meaning of a large number of words for the GRE , but rather whether you are a widely read person who has already encountered many of these words in the course of their life and studies . Certainly the verbal GRE scores are generally taken into account much less seriously ( or not at all ) when making graduate admissions decisions for non-American students , particularly when the student has no plans to remain in the US after their studies .
After 5 weeks , I think you can safely assume that she has forgotten about it . You can either accept that you will not hear back from her , or send a polite reminder . Most people do not mind a friendly reminder about tasks that they have committed to but forgotten about . It is definitely not inappropriate . However , it is of course possible that she simply has no time after all , but then the right thing for her to do is to just tell you .
That 's a tricky question . I will try to give you my humble advice . First , document every step and be sure that your statements are true . If you have some suspicion , you can also present that , but state that you only have such suspicion . Second , write again to the editor telling him/her that in good faith you believe the study is fabricated , and it will undermine the journal credibility . If you do that after publication , the damage to the scholarly literature will be even larger . Third , tell the editor your plan . For instance , you can tell him/her that if he does not act swiftly within 30 days , you will inform , without divulging too much details , of the situation , his/her insitution , as well as the authors ' institutions and the publisher . Fourth , if the above does not work ( it should ) , then proceed and be ready to defend thoroughly your argument .
While I 'm not aware of any research on employees exposed to safety risks in the academic workplace , there are statistics on actual workplace injuries in a variety of occupations , including scientific occupations . If the incidence of injury is uniform across gender among those exposed to safety risks ( I do n't know if it is ) , then you can take this as a proxy for the gender distribution of those exposed to risk in the scientific workplace . In particular , the <URL> collects information on workplace injuries , which you can query at will . According to their statistics , here are the numbers of nonfatal occupational injuries involving days away from work among employees whose occupation is classified as " <URL> " : <URL> I was also interested in the ratio of the number of injuries to the number of thousands of people of each gender employed , again in " <URL> " : <URL> Please <URL> to learn more about how they collect these statistics and what they mean . You can query their dataset yourself if you 're interested in getting numbers specific to one area of science or another .
If you are aiming for attending a top five mathematics department in the U.S. immediately afterwards , Part III of the Tripos plays almost no role . It 's not uncommon for students to do Part III , but often after already being admitted to the U.S. department and deferring for a year . Occasionally someone who was turned down the previous year applies again while doing Part III and is admitted , either because their application looks stronger or because they have better luck . However , attending Part III plays little role in this . The bar for Part III admission is lower than for top five U.S. Ph.D. programs in mathematics , so merely being admitted is not in itself a factor . The Cambridge academic year does n't even start until October , so there 's generally no useful way to get letters of recommendation from Cambridge faculty based on Part III : they simply do n't have enough to say at the point at which letters are needed . The net effect is that you are applying with letter writers based on the previous year , and the only function of Part III is demonstrating that you are doing something productive with your time ( it certainly looks better than taking a year off , for example ) .
<URL> points to <URL> , which allows you to look up the policy of specific journals .
Most central European universities do n't traditionally have QEs . However , it seems to me as if it is getting more popular to have something after the first one or two years of your programme . Two data points : In my current university , PhD students need to defend their thesis proposal after ( maximum ) two years . This includes writing their proposal , receiving written comments by two other ( i.e. , not their advisor ) professors of the faculty , and presenting and defending their proposal in front of the entire faculty ( our faculty is pretty small ) . Questions are asked in this defense , but not typically about material that is not directly linked to the proposal . In theory students can fail at this step , but is is very uncommon . The goal is rather to force students ( and advisors ) to have a clear goal of where the thesis is going early on , something that was historically a bit of a problem . When I did my PhD , we did not really have any sort of entry exam or defense in my alma mater . However , since then , they have switched to a model not unlike what I explained above . The main difference is that proposals are only presented ( there is no written document ) , and that only a small committee is responsible for giving feedback on the proposal ( not the entire faculty ) . This defense has to be taken one year after start of the PhD . Failing this defense is again very uncommon . Summary : the places I am well aware of do n't have stressful QEs . Instead , we traditionally had pretty much nothing . Nowadays , many places have a proposal defense instead of a QE , but this is not a step that students typically have to be stressed out about .
Certainly , a good literature review paper ( also frequently referred to as a survey paper ) would be an attractive asset in anyone 's academic portfolio . However , it is easier said then done . Some people on this site even replied to one of my related questions that such papers is more of a prerogative of senior , very experienced scholars . Perhaps , there is some truth to it ; likely , a lot of truth . However , I do think that those opinions should not prevent people from attempting to write a good survey paper ( or do anything , for that matter ) . The reason for that , in my opinion , is twofold : 1 ) Self-assessment . Some people are better at carrying out specific research , while others are better at synthesizing information , in general , and results of research studies , in particular . We often do not know our strengths ( and weaknesses ) , unless we try both types of research . 2 ) Self-improvement . In my opinion , it is very important to set the bar high , so that , even if we do not achieve a desired level of success for particular goal today , we will learn much more , thus , increasing our chances for succeeding in that goal and in general tomorrow . Plus , even , if we will not be have our survey papers published in a respectable outlet any time soon ( while that IMHO should be one of the goals ) , we will obtain a much better understanding of the whole field of study ( or subject domain ) as well as gain an excellent practice in academic writing , which is very valuable on its own ( " practice makes perfect " ) . Now , I will cover briefly some specific aspects that are related to your question . Firstly , we need to understand that there are no ready-to-use , step-by-step recipes for success , in general , and for writing good survey papers , in particular . Sure , there are some guidelines and templates ( which are indeed helpful ) , however , the quality of a survey paper is IMHO dependent on a variety of factors beyond those aids , such as a potential author 's knowledge and understanding of a field of study , research stream of subject domain , their abilities for writing clearly and concisely as well as constructing a mental picture of a large body of research and synthesizing from it , often creating rather complex conceptual frameworks . There exist papers that demonstrate how to do that ; in particular , for example , for the information systems discipline , see papers by Webster &amp; Watson ( 2002 ) as well as by Levy &amp; Ellis ( 2006 ) . However , again , it is one thing to see how something should be done and another to do that yourself . Another issue that we need to be aware of is that approaches for writing survey papers are quite different across disciplines and/or fields of study . Secondly , we need to understand that writing a survey paper is not the same as performing a <URL> or a <URL> ( by the way , they are often confused as similar things , which they are not , despite <URL> ) . We need to understand that meta-analysis is a statistical toolset , whereas systematic review is a type of study , which might or might not use the former . Thirdly , depending on the discipline or field of study ( as well as on the author and journal/editor ) , a survey paper might be closer in its form to a narrative review , rather than a systematic one . While systematic reviews are often regarded as more rigorous approach to covering a topic , they are not without their shortcomings . In fact , good narrative reviews might be as valuable , if not more , to science and research community , as their systematic counterparts . See <URL> for some details . References Levy , Y. , &amp; Ellis , T. J. ( 2006 ) . A systems approach to conduct an effective literature review in support of information systems research . Informing Science , 9 , 181-212 . Retrieved from <URL> Webster , J. , &amp; Watson , R. T. ( 2002 ) . Analyzing the past to prepare for the future : Writing a literature review . MIS Quarterly , 26 ( 2 ) , 13-23 . Retrieved from <URL>
Learning is a life long activity . Graduating with a PhD is not a license to stop learning , it 's a license to ( eventually ) get paid to do research and learn more :)
You are correct in that the total time will first of all vary between journals and fields but also slightly over time . I am chief editor of an international journal in the environmental sciences . The time each reviewing editor spends on a paper with our journal can be broken down as follows : Must scan the paper upon receiving it for assigning reviewers ( probably takes an hour , maybe less ) Assign reviewers ( does not take much time but can be drawn out over time when reviewers decline to review ) Read reviews carefully and provide authors with guidelines on what to focus on ( probably takes a few hours ) Carefully check the revisions and decide on the faith of the paper ( takes a couple of hours at least depending on extent of revisions ) If the paper goes to major revisions you need to go through steps 2-4 again If the paper is accepted then spend maybe 15 minutes to half an hour formulating a suggestion for final decision ( depends on what might need to be written ) This can be summed up for one paper as probably more than half a day . Then the question is how many papers you are requested to handle per month/year etc. . You can then easily multiply by the number of papers to get a reasonable idea of the total time you will need to spend . To add to this , you will need to act whenever a paper arrives , so you are expected to be more or less on call all year . Most journals have systems for indicating when editors are away but that only works for assigning new papers ; if you have started the process you will have to see it through ... and keep chasing late reviews and delayed revisions . So although I can not give you an idea of workload , you have some tools to figure out what will be involved . Knowing the number of papers you are expected to handle is the most important statistic to figure out . Then depending on your field , you may have a sense of whether my estimates for scanning and reading materials are reasonable . I am sure they will vary depending on discipline .
" ... a quick - one , two , you 're published ! " That 's not how it works . What works is : Make it a publicly available preprint ( online repositories like arXiv , a preprint series of some institute , university , maybe via your personal website or blog ... ) . Submit to some peer reviewed journal that complies with papers that are available as preprints ( and there are journals that do not cost you anything ; you will not get " open access " for free , but in many cases the preprint can stay freely available ) . Put the paper in your CV and add " submitted for publication " . Then the paper will be visible and checkable and it also shows that you know how scientific publishing works .
Some of this depends a lot on field and laboratory , and I do n't know the customs of physics . As somebody who has dealt with this question in both biology and computer science , however , let me give you some thoughts : Since you are n't aiming for a fellowship , you 're probably going to be supported by a funded project of some sort . That means the PI you 'd be working for promised their funders they would get somebody do a postdoc-sized piece of work on Topic X . Their biggest concern is thus likely to be whether you are the person who can do that . Accordingly , when I 'm thinking about postdocs , the properties I 'm looking for are : Flexibility enough to shift from their Ph.D. topic to the topic of the project , which is pretty much guaranteed to be different . Autonomy , creativity , and maturity enough to tackle their part of the project without much hand-holding . Productivity and responsibility enough to deliver research progress at regular intervals . Formulate your letter accordingly , showing what you have accomplished , that you are capable of formulating a research vision , and that you have interests outside of your research vision . The goal is not to sell yourself , but to be interesting enough that it 's worth the PIs time to talk to you in person , which is where the real decision will be made . In fact , however , you are best served if you can skip the letter entirely and approach potential PIs in person at conferences or other meetings . Get introductions from your advisor if you can . Practice your elevator pitch ( explaining what you 'd put in a letter in just three spoken sentences ) . Speaking as a PI , a whole lot of postdoc jobs ultimately originated by PIs talking at a meeting and one of them saying , " I 've got this great student who 's graduating , and I 'll bet they 'd fit well in your lab ... " or the other saying , " I 've got this grant starting next year and there 's a gap I need to fill ... "
Generally speaking , they are looking for something new which contributes to the current literature of the field . If your paper fits in this context ( i.e. you believe your paper will enhance/improve current methods or even solve particular problem , then you got publishable work regardless of the reviewing output . For a particular journal , other factors are added to the significance of the work ( for example journal scope , writing level , paper format and methodology ) .
I 've have multiple papers under review at the same time in the same journal for various reasons ( e.g. , special issues , highly preferred venue , standard community venue ) . When the papers were linked , we made sure to request the same editor -- otherwise , you 're just making life more difficult for the editors because the editors of the two papers will have to coordinate in any case . When the papers were not linked ( and I 've had utterly unrelated papers simultaneously under review , since they came from different collaborations ) , we selected an appropriate editor to request independently , which might or might not turn out to be the same . The key principle here is to remember that your selection of an editor is only your personal recommendation to the journal . Just like a statement preferred reviewers , the journal has no particular compulsion to abide by your selection . If they think a different editorial distribution makes sense , they will assign it that way instead . Thus : do n't handicap a paper unnecessarily by recommending a suboptimal choice of editor .
Short answer : the editor will continue to try and find other suitable reviewers , sending them invitations and waiting for replies . At some point , they may come back to you and ask you to suggest names ( additional names , if you had already given some when you originally submitted the paper ) . It can happen that an editor has a hard time finding suitable reviewers that accept to review a manuscript . There are a few factors in play , such as : the journal is not well-know ; the editor is new , or not well-know in the field , or does not have a very good network ; the research reported is atypical , in a very narrow subfield , or joins different areas ( so that no one reviewer feels confident in accepting ) the elements sent by the editor ( title and abstract ) are rather boring or tend to confuse the potential reviewers Note that most of these factors do not reflect badly on the manuscript , so there is no need to feel bad about it . The editor is likely to continue his search of reviewers . I see two other options that the editor could choose from , but I judge them as rather unlikely : Evaluate the manuscript himself , and make a decision based on his own review . After all , it 's his job , and the reviewers ' role is only to help the editor reach a decision . Refer the manuscript to another editor , or to the editorial board , so they can make a decision on it . Finally , note that it may take quite some time to find suitable ( and willing ) reviewers . In the case of one paper of mine , it took the editor 3 months to find adequate reviewers , and that was actually for a prestigious journal . However , the paper was atypical enough ( and the research was quite novel ) that many potential reviewers did not feel able to review it adequately . ( And in case you wonder , it was accepted on the first try , once the editor found reviewers . ) Edit ( regarding your comment ) : my advice is do n't retract your submission , unless you think it 's the journal 's fault ( unwilling editor or unknown journal ) . I know it 's tempting ! But especially if your work is multidisciplinary , it will take time to find reviewers , even if you submit it to another journal . Thus , better let the current submission process go to its end .
Search the web for it : open archives , search engine , authors webpages , whatever ( you 've probably done that already ... ) Ask the contact author for a copy , which she 'll usually be very happy to provide . I regularly get such requests from other researchers in my field , and it feels very good to know that people are actually interested in your work . If the contact author does n't respond , try the senior author , then other authors . Try your local library . Look into their database , and also ask the librarian there if the document might be available through loan from other libraries . I 've never had much success doing that , but you never know ... Ask a few colleagues at different institutions if they can get it for free ( see <URL> ) . If you have friends at large/famous/well-funded US universities ( Princeton , Harvard , ... ) , they probably have a more comprehensive access than you . If it 's a really important paper , pay for it ! Whatever happens , make sure you make a copy for others in your lab/group , and archive it . When I started my PhD , there was a folder ( the heavy paper type , not the computer type ) labeled " important but hard to find papers " that the group had accumulated along the years . It was the most treasured object in the whole lab .
Offering to give a presentation about your work sounds like a very good idea . I would suggest contacting the professor as soon as possible saying that you would be keen to present your work . By giving them early notice , you give them the chance to either arrange something for you , or to pass your details onto anybody in the wider department who may run the sorts of seminars/colloquiums where such talks often take place . In terms of other things you could do , if they 've already told you that you 'll be introduced to other members of the research team then that sounds like a lot of that will be organised for you . Another thing you may want to consider is to see what other regularly seminars , journal clubs , research groups , etc. already exist that might be of interest to you . If this is somewhere that you may have the opportunity to go and work at then you want to have the fullest sense of what your working environment would be like . As for putting it on your CV , I 'm not entirely sure that a visit is entirely relevant . If it was a visiting job then include it , but something casual like this probably not . It is the sort of thing that may be well worth discussing ( if it 's relevant ) in a cover letter or supporting statement that goes alongside applications .
end question
start question
What does this mean , " We recommend that you consider submission to an alternative venue " ?
From what you 've said by itself , it 's ambiguous . That is , if your paper really is on a topic not usually covered by that journal , then their remark is completely bland , just meaning what it says . If , at the other extreme , you are pretty sure that your paper 's topic is exactly what is covered in the journal , then , yes , their " recommendation " is just a polite form of rejection . If you are a beginner at this , it is possible that your understanding of what your own paper is about may have some quirks or limitations , or you 've presented it in a way that dis-served you , or you 've presented it in a way that confused or mis-directed the editors/referee , etc. . For example , giving inappropriate/inaccurate keywords can get a paper sent to an inappropriate referee , who may think the paper is misguided , while if you 'd given different keywords , a different referee might think it was mainstream and wonderful . Similarly , unfortunate choices in title , abstract , and introduction can set things off down the wrong path . Getting an opinion from an experienced person about the actual appropriateness of your paper for that venue is necessary before it 's possible to understand the situation .
First a disclaimer : I personally do not agree with some " ways of life " I am going to describe and already upvoted other answers :-) . is it possible to be a researcher without concerning about " Publish or perish " ? YES , albeit probably only in atypical settings . firstly , at this site , we tend to forget that academia is not only the first league of the few top-notch research universities , but includes a MASS of smaller universities and research institutes in all sorts of small , hidden corners of the world which tend either not to produce academic output in terms of journal articles , books , conference papers , etc. , but at which they live and breath by e.g. , primarily education , local politics , etc. . Yet , on paper they claim to do research , so working there , you would be officially a researcher . I am speaking for instance about universities in countries , where rigorous science and high education , for whatever reasons , does not have a very strong tradition . At such places , doing research would resemble a kind of a <URL> . Most often , at least at some stage in the career , you still need to publish something . E.g. a dissertation would probably suffice . But often an interview with such a researcher in a local newspaper would count at the place more than a first-class academic journal . Being coined an expert on X by the local media a single time would allow you to survive at such a university for a decade ( at any level from a PhD student to a Full Professor ) without being concerned with perishing . If there is a desperate lack of teaching staff , then you do not have to care even for being any good teacher either and you would n't perish . I know personally people who are are doing some research ( or at least everybody around says so ) for decades without moving from a place and without publishing even a technical report and do not perish . to a more optimistic note , though being pedantic now , you can easily be a researcher and not publish in the industry . Many industrial researchers do not primarily work for the benefit of the humankind ( as you could see said in academia ) , but for the benefit of a company . finally , I speculate there could be some special professorship positions where you do not have to worry about publishing anymore , because you are not about to perish anymore .
I would like for students to rapidly acquire flexible , durable analysis skills . Your criteria are quite stringent ! I think you are going to have to compromise at some point along the line . If you want them to acquire the skills rapidly , then they are probably going to have to use menu-based software , which will be limited in its flexibility . The long-term and more flexible solution would be for the students to learn statistical programming , but that of course has a steep learning curve . In my opinion , R has a lot of advantages . [ I imagine you have already come across it , so I may be stating the obvious here and you may have a good reason for ruling it out , but ... ] It is free and open source , and therefore once learnt , the skill can be taken anywhere . It 's massively flexible when you take into account all of the add-on packages Students can " ease " into it using R commander , which gives a menu-based interface but also outputs the corresponding code . It is popular and therefore very well resourced . The best compromise that I can think of would be to start the students off using the menu-based R commander package , but encourage them to inspect and customise the code where possible . If you are not able to give training yourself , it would probably be a good idea to arrange for someone else ( either in your department , or pay someone external ) to give a course . There are lots of good self-learning resources available , but a course ought to speed up the learning process . When they see how powerful the software is , it is likely to encourage them to put in the time and effort to learn to use it well .
I believe you should do what is better to the audience . In some disciplines/communities it is strongly assumed that conference participants read the abstracts/papers before the presentation , and expect the discussion to follow precisely the material that is published . In this case , of course , you could only comment briefly on the recent changes you 've made . In other fields ( such as mine ) , the abstracts are used only as a means to ( roughly ) describe the topic of the presentation . It is quite normal to extend the actual talk beyond the scope of the abstract , or reduce the role of some pieces of research advertised in the abstract . In this case , I 'd advise you to make a talk that is simply interesting for you and the audience . It can probably include both the original design and your contribution to its recent development . Make sure people in the room understand why the changes were needed , how you have worked them out , and what is the benefits of your new architecture .
The ' overhead ' generally refers to the funding that does n't go directly to research expenses ( salaries of researchers , cost of experiments/consumables , etc ) but to the supporting expenses ( salaries of administrative/support staff ; cost of facilities and utilities , equipment depreciation ) of services that are neccessary but not directly related to research . It often is set by university administration to some fixed rate ( 50 % sounds high to me , but it depends on country and research domain ) that is taken from all grants and used to fund those ' common ' expenses .
In Germany , access to universities is regulated by the Numerus Clausus system , which basically says that the number of students admitted to any given programme at a university can be either unrestricted or restricted to a fixed number of students . For an unrestricted programme , students just need to fulfill the basic formal criteria ( they need a german Abitur , or an equivalent ) . For most restricted programmes on bachelor level , prospective students need to apply and are then ranked based solely on their Abitur grades ( plus a few exceptions for corner cases , foreign students with no german Abitur , etc. ) . For restricted master level programmes , many universities ( including , apparently , TU Kaiserslautern , as linked by the original poster above ) have adopted a more US-style admission system , which is based not only on previous grades but also on letters of recommendation , statements of interest , interviews , etc. . TU Kaiserslautern also has its selection procedure <URL> . This will vary per university , though . Edit : to answer your subquestion ( which I happened to have missed the first time around ) : Do German universities discriminate students on the basis of their age ? No , not in general , and certainly not officially .
It 's the first conference in a series , or the conference that launches a project , or some other kind of start to something . Definition from Google : noun : kick-off a start of an event or activity . synonyms : beginning , start , commencement , launch , outset , opening " breakfast on the boat was a great kickoff to the weekend " <URL> of usage in the context of a conference ( emphasis mine ) : On September 2-4 2015 , the FIRES project was officially launched with the kick off meeting and conference organized in Berlin , in the Science and Technology Park in Adlershof .
Universities typically consider such intent statements to be binding . If you submit these statements to multiple universities , they will all hold seats for you , seats which could otherwise go to someone from their waiting list . This hurts those other applicants . It is also a serious inconvenience to the department 's admissions committee , as they need to meet their enrollment targets as closely as possible ; failure to do so can affect their funding , and in extreme cases , the survival of the graduate program . So this is at least inconsiderate on your part , and arguably unethical . If the institutions find out that you have done this , it is possible that they may rescind their acceptances ; this is uncommon but has been known to happen . In addition , you would certainly forfeit any deposits that you paid . At the undergraduate level , where deposits are almost always required ( in the US ) , this practice is called " double depositing " . The National Association for College Admission Counseling , in their " <URL> " , says : Colleges view dual or multiple deposits by students as serious violations of trust and may revoke a previous offer of admission from any student who is found to have sent tuition deposits to more than one college . My advice is this : at this point , you should plan on attending the university X to which you 've announced your intent . However , if you are absolutely convinced that doing so would be a huge mistake ( not merely that you think Y is a little bit better ) , then you could contact the admissions committee at X , explain your reasons , apologize , and ask to be released from your agreement . If you do this , you should do it as soon as possible ( ideally within days - do n't stew about it for two weeks ) , and know that it will probably burn your bridges with X , as well as forfeiting your deposit . If X says it 's all right ( they probably will - if you do n't want to be there , they do n't want you there ) , then you could send your intent to Y . Some people might argue that you are also ethically obligated to inform Y of the situation . I think it 's kind of a gray area , myself . You might also discuss the matter with an advisor or other professor at your current institution . They might offer some perspective on X that would help reassure you . In general , most people say that it is n't so crucial which institution you attend , within reason - your own skills and motivation are a much greater factor in your success .
<URL> sets out principles that define meaning of " open " with respect to knowledge and in relation to data and content . This is based on three fundamental rights : free to use , free to re-use , free to re-distribute for all . In other words : Open data and content can be freely used , modified , and shared by anyone for any purpose . which is synonymous with " free " or " libre " as in the <URL> . There are a <URL> for the most diverse data types ( images , text , audio , video , data , databases , source code , etc. ) that guarantee this openness by this definition . The meaning of " open " in the terms " open data " and " open content " ensures quality and encourages compatibility between different pools of open material . This can be summed up as : Open means anyone can freely access , use , modify , and share for any purpose ( subject , at most , to requirements that preserve provenance and openness ) . with respect to knowledge : Knowledge is open if anyone is free to access , use , modify , and share it -- subject , at most , to measures that preserve provenance and openness . For precise the meaning of " open " , check <URL> page ( or <URL> ) . Source : <URL>
I would interpret that as asking for a short letter that briefly states what you are applying for , your educational background , interests and goals , why you are interested in their program specifically , and mentions anything else you 'd like them to consider .
The answer to your question is probably " Yes and No " or , more properly , it depends on who is telling you this and why . If the individual wants you to find his or her research , then " in Nature " might mean in Nature . However , if someone wants you to find research , why are n't they giving you a full citation ? Usually someone would say their work is published " in Nature " to make themselves sound important ( sometimes rightfully so ) . In this case , I doubt that the individual would make a distinction between Nature and the derivative journals , most of which also have high impact factors . The person is more likely to be vague if the field-specific NPG journal in which the work is published has a much lower impact factor than Nature . In the field of chemistry , Nature Chemistry is relatively new , 4 years old . Since NChem is so new , most folks I talk to distinguish whether they mean Nature or NChem . NChem 's newness leaves it with a lower impact factor ( 20.524 for 2011 , the first year it qualified for one ) vs. Nature ( 36.280 in 2011 ) .
An educated guess is that the manuscript handling system by default expects two reviews . The number of reviews required for a decision can usually be changed by the editor . A reason for adding reviews is that you receive , for example and in the worst case , one accept and one reject from the two reviewers . It is therefore reasonable for an editor to search for additional reviewers to provide a better basis for a decision . Another reason can be that one or both of the original reviewers left reviews but they were deemed unconstructive and the need for additional reviews arose from the lack of reasonable feedback . There can be many other reasonable explanations as well , these are just examples . Anyway , in this case , it is possible that the editors have not bothered to change the number of required reviews to 4 ( which I assume the total would be ) . The system then shows that all reviews are in and that the manuscript should be decided upon . So hopefully , the editor will try to get speedy reviews and get back to you with useful feedback on your manuscript .
If you are unsure of your ability to complete the task , you should go immediately to your advisor and/or the other committee members to get as much help as they can give you . That is not much of an answer , but I want to supplement it with this : in this case , asking for help on the internet is potentially problematic . Being assigned a paper and asked to read and understand it in three weeks sounds like a situation which is close to a " take-home exam " . ( Maybe it is n't , and maybe you are not understanding the assignment . Find out . ) If so , getting help on the internet on your exam may not be kosher . Anyway , most graduate students in most graduate programs in most fields do not automatically or easily understand cutting edge papers . The whole point of the graduate programs is to give them the help and training they need to do this . So you should be doing what you can to get that help and training , not worrying about whether you are worthy in some cosmic sense . Good luck . Added : For those who are confused by the discrepancy between the answer and my comment above : the original version of the question included a lot of content-related information , including the title and author of the paper itself . I was worried that could lead to getting content-related help from the internet . The current version of the question is totally unproblematic in that regard .
I 'll assume you are talking about a department that admits students via a single admissions committee ( rather than offers from individual professors or groups , in which case all bets are off regarding the timing ) . As a general rule , getting an offer earlier is a sign that the committee is more interested , but that does n't mean the actual offer will be better in any concrete sense . Often there will be a first wave of offers , which may be followed by additional offers depending on how many people seem likely to accept . Sometimes the further offers are explicitly described as a waiting list , but sometimes the only distinguishing factor is that they come later in time .
The corresponding author serves as the point of access for readers to inquire about a paper . This does not imply it should be any particular author , though particularly common choices seem to be first or last author . The corresponding author should be the author that is least likely to change institutions . Changing institutions generally implies losing your contact details where you left ( including email ) . The corresponding author should be the one that is most likely to remain a consistent point of communication . This is often the last author because that is the common spot for the supervising PI ( typically tenured ) . This is not always true , for example some domains like maths and theoretical computer science organise authors alphabetically .
<URL> is supposed to take care of that and it seems to gain significant traction . According to <URL> , it should be launched in fall this year ( 2012 ) . However , I am not sure whether it falls under your definition of " non-commercial " . I am myself very curious about it , my hopes are that finally it will take care of disambiguation of names like " John Smith " - for me e.g. , Web of Science database is practically unusable as it shows several thousands of papers for my name :-| .
If this section of the thesis contains only the translated passage , then it is silly to use one of the quotation notifiers . As I said in my comment , preface the whole section with a notice about the origin of the passage . Then , present the passage unaltered ( except for the translation ) . The contents of that notice will depend on which of the following categories the original passage falls into : Public domain The original passage is in the public domain ( for example if it was written by a government employee in the course of their normal duties or if the author released into the public domain or if the passage is old enough that any possible copyright has expired ) - then say something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without any further alterations from ( original source ) . This passage is in the public domain ( rationale if possible ) . Fair Use Since a thesis is a document created in the course of obtaining an education , you can claim fair use for educational purposes . The passage represents less than the fair use maximum set for the original document ( typically around 5 % or less of the original work ) , then you can state something like The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) and is reproduced without permission and without any further alterations from ( original source ) . Since this passage represents a minimal part of the original document , it constitutes fair use . Public License The creator of the document could have released the document under a license that allows reuse for non-profit purposes with appropriate attribution . See <URL> and <URL> . Licenses like these generally allow you to reproduce the work if you include the appropriate statement . Make sure the license allows derivative works ( because that is what your translation is ) . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) under the <URL> . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . Express permission If you have obtained written permission from the copyright holder to reproduce the work in your thesis , then you would state something like the following . You should include the evidence of written permission in your appendix . The following section is was translated by ( your initials ) . It is reproduced from ( original source ) with permission of the copyright holder . The original copyright is held by , and all other rights are reserved by , ( original copyright holder ) . None of the above Without permission , a license , fair use , or public domain , you are violating copyright by reproducing the passage , even if you translated it ( translations count as derivative works , which are still a no-no ) . Get the appropriate permissions or reduce the length of the passage so that it becomes fair use and see above . US Copyright Note that this answer primarily to <URL> , with which I am most familiar . The copyright laws in other nations , as well as international copyright law , will vary , but many have similar provisions . However , some parts of my answer will be inapplicable in some countries . In these cases , behave as if the material is copyrighted . The concepts of public domain , copyright , and license are fairly similar in most places . Generally , the existence of a license supersedes copyright , with the exception that a license can not supersede the public domain status of a work . Fair use may not exist in all jurisdictions . If you are unsure whether your nation has a fair use or similar exception in its copyright law , act as if it does n't . Better safe than sorry .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
My comment turned into answer : you could call it an " expository paper " , especially if it contains some more descriptive details on how/where to use/apply these formulas . At least in my field ( mathematics ) such papers are not unheard of . These are often published in journals more aimed towards such papers with a broader audience , for example the <URL> or <URL> . These papers can be of great value as a clear and easy reference to results in a particular field ; on the other hand , they may not quite be considered research papers .
Writing an expository piece is not a research activity . Research activity in general refers to original research with things like systematic reviews and meta analysis falling into a gray area .
end question
start question
Why would master student spend more than the normal duration to complete master degree ?
Here is one more possible reason : the students may be working so much " on the side " that they need more semesters to complete all of the necessary courses . Not at all universities are students supervised thoroughly or progress is checked regularly , so that working part time and studying part time is possible even when not explicitly studying for a part-time degree . It is not difficult to imagine that when working 50 % of your time and studying 50 % of the time , it takes twice as long to complete the course of study . Obviously , it depends on the rules and regulations of the university and/or course of study whether this is a possible explanation . As an example , my undergrad course allowed this , and the average duration of study was 85 % above the normal duration of study , mainly because so many students studied while working . It was a STEM course . I know of on case where the student actually spent 2/3 of the time working and 1/3 of the time studying .
I 've done my PhD in Japan , and have had much contact with professors in America and Japan . The academic relationship and work culture in both countries are very different . In America it is generally not regarded as bad when someone puts their feet on the table while talking to you . I had bosses and advisors in the US who did this . However , in Japan , the advisor-student relationship is more respectful and professional . I would like to tell you that you should ask the professor to refrain from putting their feet on the table , but if they do it in their office , it is pretty much up to them . Since the office is the professor 's space , I do not think it is your friend 's business to ask them not to do it .
As far as I know , NO . In the ACM conferences I have attended , I got one USB stick that has a single html file ( page ) that links to the individual PDFs of the papers of the conference . It is not like a conference with Springer proceedings , that provides a single PDF with the entire proceedings grouped together as a book . So , as far as I know , there is not a official book-PDF with the entire conference papers for an ACM conference . I do not know if this applies to all ACM conferences , though .
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
There are many factors ! In the past there was much less demand for highly educated people , as there were many more jobs that were mostly manual labour . Technology is largely to blame for this , as computers and machines take over what we had to do with our heads and hands . People were more likely to work in one job for their whole life , so there was less incentive to get a more general education . Apprenticeships were more common , so you 'd learn on the job rather than study at university . It was easier in the past to " work your way up the company " -- you 'd start as a front-line grunt , and have a good chance of becoming a manager later on . Children with poorly educated parents are much less likely to go to university . Starting off 100 years ago when almost everyone was poorly educated , it 's actually taken remarkably few generations to get where we are now .
" All other things being equal , " you 'd rather have more references from graduate than undergraduate professors . Your situation is such that " all other things are n't equal . " Apparently , you did n't get to know any of your masters professors well , and only took one course from each . Whereas you had undergraduate professors that you took two to three courses from , and they know you better , and may be in a better position to assess your research potential . Taking the inference a step further , you may have done your most interesting/significant research as an undergraduate , while your master 's work " topped up " your academic knowledge . If that 's the case , you probably ought to " go with what you 've got , " and get more referrals from the ( undergraduate ) professors that you did more work for , or at least got to know better . I would rather have " glowing " recommendations from undergraduate professors than " lukewarm " recommendations from graduate professors . If all else fails , try to take a second course with one of your graduate professors so the s/he can get to know you better , and give you a recommendation .
As an student instructor , I would consider it ethical if certain conditions are met : The proofreader is n't taking unfair advantage of the student , especially when paid for his services . There are plenty who call themselves ' tutors ' who will use dishonest tactics ; for instance , deliberately being unclear as to his editing methods in order to encourage continuing dependence on his services , making false criticisms of edits the student 's friend made for free , or emotionally manipulating students who are from abroad . The student is n't taking unfair advantage of the instructor . It 's important that the student respects classroom policy on external assistance and observes the relevant boundaries when working with his editor . The editor is n't taking unfair advantage of the instructor . It 's not clear from your question whether the editor is in the same course as the writer , or merely at the same school . If the editor is enrolled in the same course , I 'd consider it unethical for him to read through other students ' work before his own is handed in . The instructor is n't taking unfair advantage of the editor . There should be reasonable office hours to work with students , because that work is the responsibility of the instructor , not the classmates .
" Doctor " is from the Latin meaning " teacher " ( much like " doctrine , " or much as " docent " for either similar positions overseas or the post of museum guide domestically ) , the premise being that those skilled in actual medicine ( and not the guesswork that had prevailed for the millennia before ) were now considered expert enough to guide or instruct others . It had actually been used for non-medical fields for centuries earlier . The twist , of course , is that we now use the title in a " social context " only for those in the Johnny-come-lately field of medicine , perhaps because of the obvious embarrassment that might arise when someone styling themselves " Doctor " is rushed to a trauma scene at a party and asked to save someone 's life ; the need to distinguish those individuals possessing such skills has trumped the prestige factor for all those in other worthy disciplines . As someone who pursued both for a time , I can say : my job is important , even critical , but it ai n't lifesaving .
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
No . In the US , permanent university-level teaching positions in computer science , even at small four-year colleges , require a Ph.D. . As I explained in <URL> , an online master 's degree will not help you get into a PhD program . For some non-tenure-track positions , a master 's degree with a thesis may be enough , but a terminal/professional/course-based master 's degree wo n't be ; whether that terminal master 's program is online or on-campus is essentially irrelevant . In short , if you want a permanent teaching position , you need formal research experience .
Disclaimer : the following is my practical experience on research . I have no idea about the opinions of admissions committees and the like , but it probably depends greatly on the country and the relative quality of master 's and undergrad education . I am a theoretical physicist by formation ( 5 years degree ) . Then I did my master 's thesis ( I had taken enough courses ) in Bioinformatics , and I am doing a PhD in Biophysics . When I start a new project ( or tackle the next sub-project ) , there are a bunch of things about Biology and Chemistry that I do n't know , but most of them are actually quite easy . I am sometimes lacking " the bigger picture " , being able to my questions into a broader meaning , but that is not so important . For example , my master 's project was to improve the number of identified peptides in an experiment using computational techniques , and that is a very clear goal . What to do with this improved results ? Obviously , we can improve the things we already do . But , are there biological questions it can help answer ? I am not sure , but there are experts on that . For the middle picture range , I rely on my advisors . They are also physicists , but they have learned along the way pretty much what they need . And after just a few months , I was surprised of how much I was able to help the new members of the lab . Actually , I believe taking another undergrad degree would not help so much . Of course , I would be faster at the beginning , because I would know what things like " the $ C _ \ alpha $ residuals " mean , but the actual meat of the project , where we spend months , is probably not covered ( or not covered in enough detail ) in most undergrad degrees . And the main reason is that these details are known only to those who have actually worked hands on with it . Let me give you an example : in Physics we talk about spectra all the time , and all the information you can extract from it , with perhaps , the only limitation is the noise of your instrument . The truth is , unless you have a VERY expensive camera , you are going to find very funny stuff , like two spectra taken right after the other , with exactly the same experimental set up , will not have , on camera , the same intensity ; and even the profile of the line . To compensate for this you need to get clever , and it very much depends on the details , so it is very difficult to teach unless your lecturer is an expert in spectra analysis and can tell you how they do it . And still , most people can just rely on the spectra pre-processed by the experts , so they do n't need to know this . Unless , of course , you want to work with raw spectra yourself ( been there ) . Lastly , a master 's or a PhD has some courses . They are usually quite specialised , targeted for your level and background , and can bring you up to speed in the things you need to know about your field quite nicely . And to add some peace of mind , my former lab hired a postdoc coming from computer vision . His biological knowledge had quite big holes , but nevertheless , in a couple of weeks he was already doing amazing stuff with very good ideas . Bottomline , go for the advanced studies . You can always take Biology or Economy on the side ( for example Open University or unofficially at Coursera ) .
While in principle everything that you use in your research should be paid for by those funding your research , in practice it 's not unusual to buy oneself small supplies at the " minor office supply " level for sake of expedience , or because they 're outside of the main line of one 's research . For example , a student might want a $ 10 piece of electronics today that would take several weeks to acquire through normal channels , and then might decide it 's not worth it to them to get reimbursed . You might also buy something for yourself if you want to be the owner : for example , I bought my own laptop late in graduate school , rather than using a school laptop , because I wanted it to be my own personal machine that I could take with me when I finished . What you have written , however , sounds like a much more problematic situation : it appears that you 're effectively being asked to lie to your professor 's funder , by misrepresenting how their money is being spent . If it 's a significant amount of money , then you could be abetting in a felony-level crime . As such , if it is a significant amount of money , I would strongly advise you to not buy the equipment yourself . Instead , I think you should tell your advisor that you need the equipment , but if they do n't get it , you 'll just have to do your best without . If your advisor does n't buy the equipment , you should n't badmouth your advisor to the funder . Just do your best , and if they ask you why you do n't have the equipment you need , you can tell them the honest truth : you 've asked your advisor for it and are hoping you 'll get it .
While I think the other way around ( transitioning from the humanities to the sciences ) might be harder , if you can demonstrate that you are serious and prepared to undertake graduate training in the humanities , it is definitely doable . In my sociology department ( PhD track , we did n't have a separate MA program and most entered straight after undergraduate school ) , many of my colleagues did not have any sociology training . While most of them came from related fields of economics , political science , and psychology , there were people with math and physics backgrounds and these were sometimes the people who were doing the most innovative and interdisciplinary work . The selection committee was fine with accepting them as long as their proposed research area fit with the department faculty 's research and they showed promise as a sociologist . While a degree in the field is n't necessary , make sure you address how you have been working to fill the gap you have on your CV . A personal statement will be a good place to address this . In addition , you can take additional courses , read as many works in your proposed field , and try to have a well developed study plan to give confidence to the committee that you are as competitive as the other candidates . It might be a good idea to also build contacts with professors in schools that you are applying for and go talk to them to see if they will be interested in working with you . If you plan to specialise in a society other than where you are based in ( especially in case of anthropology ) , make sure you demonstrate regional expertise , language skills , knowledge of the society , or maybe work and/or living experience . Also , since those departments ( in case of a PhD program ) will likely ask for a writing sample , start working on one well in advance so the committee can see that you can indeed to the work in the proposed field .
The degree you 're looking for ( at least in the sciences ) is called " Doctor of Science " and you can read all about it on Wikipedia : <URL> Edit : As aeismail noted : Sometimes this degree is considered equivalent to a PhD and sometimes it 's considered beyond a PhD . This distinction typically varies by country ( all this is listed on the Wikipedia page ) .
The date on which you finish courses is not necessarily the date when you earn the degree , nor is the date of the commencement ceremony . What matters is the date on which the degree is conferred by the university . If you 're not sure what that date is , ask the registrar 's office . In some cases if the degree conferral date for students completing their coursework in December/January is after the H1B deadline , the registrar may have some kind of special arrangement ( see <URL> ) , which they 'll tell you about if you ask .
A " major revision " decision generally implies that , if the reviewers ' concerns are addressed , the paper will probably be published . ( See this related question , <URL> ) Sometimes when a paper is poorly written , it 's hard for reviewers to judge its technical merits . ( Because the presentation is so poor as to make it difficult to understand . ) In these cases , a " revise and resubmit " decision often makes a lot of sense . It was n't possible for the reviewers to properly evaluate the paper , so it 's hard to say with any confidence one way or the other whether the paper will be publishable if the presentation is improved . The obvious course of action is for the authors to improve the presentation and resubmit the paper for a proper review . Based on your description , it sounds like that may be what happened in your case , as one reviewer was n't able to comment on anything besides presentation .
Requirements vary widely from program to program and from institution to institution . Some programs require a doctoral candidate to publish in a peer-reviewed journal ( probably most programs would take issue if you did n't publish or present anything ) . Most programs ( or committees ) would n't let you graduate with a PhD unless you published at least once , and would expect at least twice . My general hunch is that a doctoral dissertation ( rarely called a " doctoral thesis " ) is generally several times longer . While a masters thesis might be 20-50 pages , dissertations are routinely 80-150 pages ... and sometimes way more ( this varies widely by discipline , by the academic culture of your institution , and by your committee ) . Some programs allow the doctoral candidate to use three publications , combined into a single manuscript , as his or her dissertation . Lastly , the doctoral degree is intended to show that the recipient can perform original research . Masters degrees have a wide variety of understandings or intents , from " the recipient passed our comprehensive exams " , to " the recipient performed an original research project and published it " . Whatever you 've done for your masters thesis , focus on research for your PhD . Learn what interesting questions are in your field and choose one to focus on . Read the background literature to learn how others have approached the problem . Work with your advisor and committee to figure out how you can contribute something new and useful to the field , and then do it . Publish your findings in a journal ; present your results and network with peers at conferences . Finally , write it all up in your dissertation , defend it , and graduate . That sums up getting a PhD . The rest are details . You may find <URL> useful .
Many do n't speak about this too often , but with an advisor you are not only choosing a field of interest , but you are choosing a mentor . By all means , you want to " tick well " with him/her . There is not much good for a PhD student having a star researcher advisor whom they see once in a quarter and who is a sociopath on a personal level ( this is a bit too extreme , but think about it as a continuum between extremes ) . Choose somebody with whom you will be able to work , whose example it is worth to follow , from whom you want to learn , not only the scientific stuff , but also workstyle , level of quality he/she strives for , etc. . These soft reasons are often more important than anything else . For highlighting of all the examples of stuff you do n't want to fall into ( but will anyway :-) ) , go and look at the <URL> . P.S. I am speaking with a European-centric attitude , where you choose your advisor , since he/she will be your boss , rather than being assigned to one as it seems to happen in the US system . Still , the point is worth to consider . Germans have a good term for this , your PhD supervisor is your " Doktorvater " , i.e. , " doctor father " . That very much speaks how the relationship should end up in an ideal case .
Your friend seems to be very lucky , as the the civil-engineering diplom programme in Dresden is one of the very few in Germany that did not switch to bachelor/master yet ( <URL> ) . So if he did not automatically fail his studies due to some rule , he is likely to be able continue almost where he left them . For details , you would really have to check the university 's guidelines . If this is not possible for some reason , there are a few universities where the diplom programmes have not fully ended yet , but I would judge it unlikely that any of them allows for new students to enrol , even if they only need to write a thesis . More generally , there is a general German law ( <URL> ) , that allows students to transfer accomplished achievements : Zum Nachweis von Studien - und Prfungsleistungen soll ein Leistungspunktsystem geschaffen werden , das auch die bertragung erbrachter Leistungen auf andere Studiengnge derselben oder einer anderen Hochschule ermglicht . ( For certifying studying or examination accomplishments , a point-based system system shall be created that allows to transfer accomplishments to other degree programmes of the same or another university . )
While ignoring might be an option as the impact of this student 's report is not so high , not doing anything will educate students that it is okay to plagiarize or follow incorrect citing procedures . As such , which is also as a <URL> , it is best to contact the author of this report and inform him of the issues . ResearchGate does not have the policy to intervene , but if such situation occurs with actual published articles , one can contact the editor of the journal to file a plagiarism complaint , after which further action by the editors will be undertaken .
end question
start question
Why are the German professors addressed as Prof. Dr. XXX ?
In Germany , professorships and doctorates are considered to be " legal " titles , and have special status not accorded to other degrees and professions . In particular , university professors in Germany are Beamter ( appointed civil servants ) , which places them in a relatively small class of government employees . It is to be noted that a professor in a German university can be called " Herr Professor " or " Frau Professor " only so long as he or she is actively working as a professor ; following retirement or leaving the university profession , it is technically not permitted to use the title . Thus , in this sense , the appellation " Professor " is legally part of someone 's name , and should therefore be used in formal greetings and salutations . ( This can sometimes be annoying -- for example , in a physician 's waiting room , you can hear them call for " Frau Professor Schmidt ! " )
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
I 'll try to explain the problem from both perspectives : author and a journal typesetter . The typesetting process goes as follows : We pre-plan the issue contents 2 months in advance , in order to balance the issues in size . This is necessary for small journals with 4 or 6 issues per year , not quite for large journals with a long publishing queue . At this moment , we take articles that are accepted . If there 's not enough of them , we go through the queue and try to find articles that can be accepted quickly . Now the authors provide the final version . This takes some time , so I receive the articles usually 4-6 weeks before the issue date . That 's not a lot of time . Most articles are typeset within 1-2 weeks after I receive them . With these , there 's no problem at all . However , then you have articles that take more time , since the quality of the figures is being discussed , as well as semantics ( when the formatting from the authors is poor and the semantics are not clear ) etc. . This takes some time . So it can happen that the article is typeset like 2 weeks before the issue date , or even less . So now the article is typeset and is with the authors for proofs . Any correction they make has to be incorporated . Sometimes it 's not easy ( requests for replacing a figure with a better one , for moving figures to other pages etc. are not uncommon ) . Sometimes I strongly disagree with the authors on these . In such cases , we need to have yet another couple mails exchanged or the chief editor involved , and that takes time again . At this moment you see that 24 or 48 hours can be the maximum we can give . Once all articles get back , the issue has to be made ready , articles published online , CrossRef + Scopus metadata prepared , DOI registered etc. . That 's the perspective of the journal I typeset . I hope that it is clear that the publication comprises a lot of steps . When the authors are cooperative and reasonable , everything goes fluently and the final version is ready 4 weeks before deadline . And then you have cases when things do n't go quite well , and you get very close to the deadlines . Moreover , to make things easier ( and reduce the amount of work just before the issue date ) , you leave authors quite a short time for response . In most cases , there is plenty of time left , but if 80 % of people misuse this time , we work 16 hours a day the last 3 days before the issue date to sort everything out , and we simply want to avoid this . From the perspective of the author , 48 hours is not much for proofreading an article , especially since this has to be done very carefully . However , in most cases , if you ask for extension ( a 5-line mail with a very short request is enough ) , it will be granted without any problem . Just please do n't misuse the possibility .
In paragraph 4 of the statutes , it restricts the price to be only awarded to two works and to a maximum of 3 individuals : <URL> But it also says , that it can be awarded to an insitution or organization . Which has been done with the Nobel Peace Prizes to the EU .
First of all , is there hard data that shows how many PhDs by discipline get published as a book ? I doubt there are meaningful data available on this . I do n't think total number of " thesis-books " is meaningful since this would depend on the size of the field . The percentage of thesis-books would ignore drop out ( although potentially drop out rates are consistent across fields ) . My understanding of tenure and promotion committee meetings is that at top universities , the representatives from STEM fields discount books while the representatives from the humanities discount journal articles . At lower ranked schools , where research productivity is less , fewer books are published . Does the student themselves seek to publish or does their supervisor/committee/department inform the student that they think their material could be a book . Most of the so called " book " fields publish single author papers and books . The student ( or former student ) seeks to get the material published as a book . Do the publishing companies actively seek material to publish or expect the author to approach them . A little bit of both . The publishers encourage authors who they think are doing good research to submit a " book proposal " , but they get hundreds of unsolicited proposals . Are there other factors unique to the Humanities that mean the book is a preferred publishing route ? In some ways the optimal publishing strategy for a humanities thesis is to carve one chapter from the thesis into a journal article and have this published in a good journal . Book publishers are okay with some of the material being previously published ( as long as copyright issues can be handled ) . This article/chapter then becomes the basis of the book proposal that is used to " sell " the book idea to the publisher . The problem with this approach is that for many theses in the humanities , craving out a single chapter is difficult . The research problems that humanities students tackle are simply larger in scope than the problems STEM students tackle and the problems can not be neatly subdivided . So to round up , what are the main factors that mean Humanities PhDs appear to often get published as book ? Historically , in the US PhD students in the Humanities would do multiple years of " field work " ( often in archives , but sometimes in the actual field ) and tenure at R1 institutions is based on one or two books being published . In the UK , the shorter PhD duration and the pressure of the REF to have 4 publications , leads to many more thesis being published as articles . The type of PhD projects conducted in book and article based cultures varies significantly .
This advice is based on Computer Science mostly , and it may or may not apply directly to you . As far as I understand your area is only marginally related to Computer Science through the fact that you 're interested in Algorithmic Trading . Everything depends on two factors : your goals and the speed with which you are able to learn and create the things that you need to do in order to achieve your goals . If your goal is to be a professor at TU Vienna , then you will obviously at some point need to submit a PhD thesis and later a Habilitation thesis . The PhD thesis can have 3 to 6 papers in good conferences and one - two papers in some journals , and your habilitation thesis will consist of a minimum of 5 articles in good journals ( A-level journals ) . You will also have to submit some grant proposals and after you manage to get those grants to finish them successfully ( typically the requirement is to have EU grants or ERC grants ) . So you will have to produce at least 15 conference articles , 8-10 journal articles , 2 thesis , and 2 grants in order to get to an Assistant Professor or Professor in Vienna . If you manage to get every paper accepted first time when you submit it ( something unheard of ) , you will still need 10 - 15 years to get to Assistant Professorship or Professorships ( counting from the first year of your PhD ) . Keep in mind that at TU , Assistant or Junior Professorships appear only once at two years or so ( and just one position ) . Most of the people I know from Vienna ( TU Vienna , WU , IST Austria , etc ) were able to finish PhD thesis in 4-5 years ( full time ) or 7-8 years ( part-time ) , so there is no reason to consider that it might take a decade . The system also makes you quit really fast ( after 1-2 years ) if you do not want ( or you are not able for some reason ) to put in the effort that is required in order to create at least a decent thesis . The professor will stop talking to you if you do n't make any progress for a number of months , for example , or if your papers are not accepted at top conferences . What you need to understand is that your supervisor is your guide , but you will eventually make the journey alone . The supervisor will just help you polish your articles or thesis . These being said , before applying for a PhD , I would check the CVs , thesis and articles written by TU Professors ( Thomas Eiter , Georg Gottlob , Radu Grosu , Silvia Micksh , Stefan Woltran , etc ) . It helps a lot , as their expectations are that you will produce some work that is at least partially connected to their last articles ( so that your work will also fit into their various research projects ) . Also try to talk with some of their students ( you can easily detect them by looking through their CVs - they might have a PhD students entry - or through DBLP or Scholar by looking at their latest publications and identifying collaborators that only published few papers in the last 2-3 years ) . Try to understand what a PhD means , what are the expectations , and what is the amount of work you need to put in order to get to good results . I would also recommend you to check these interesting slides from one of the professors I just mentioned : <URL> . The idea is to try to estimate the expectations , the amount of work needed and the time you think you will need in order to fulfill this work . The actual number of papers depends a lot on the domain in which you are working , but also on the quality of the outlets where you will publish ( you might end up with a smaller number of papers if all of them are only in the top outlets for your field ) . Good luck ! Disclaimer : I do not directly work with any of the persons already mentioned , but I do work at a university from Vienna .
Mexican here !! We also have two surnames , and to be perfectly honest we do not mind if you use both or only one of our last names . People call me Dr Palafox and my former advisor ( Who is the head of the CS department ) Dr Benitez . We are talking people from all the spectrum of workers , from administrative and cleaning staff to general directors . So is perfectly fine to use only one last name . Actually is going to sound weird if you end up using both names , because we rarely do . Even the President is rarely called by his 2 last names , unless is a very specific situation .
This is a historical anachronism . The fonts are chosen for the print version of the journal . For a print version , if you use a smaller font , you can squeeze more text onto the same page and print the same paper on fewer pages -- which saves money . So , for print publications , the small font size arguably makes sense . However , today print is less important and the digital format is more important , but journal requirements have n't caught up to this fact . For instance , in computer science , the ACM is a notorious offender : they require papers to use 9pt fonts , which are very small .
I should warn that I am not an expert on this , but this is how I understand it . Basically , there are different types of " Hochshule " . There is the Universitt , which always has the right to offer Ph.D. 's . Then there are the Hochschule and Fachhochschule . The latter in general is more oriented to learning a trade ( as an electrical engineer , for example ) as opposed to more research focused . The Fachhocschule do n't have the Promotionsrecht , that is , that can not hand out Ph.D degrees . As for the Hochschule , there it depends . Some are on the same level as a Universitt . In that case , they can hand out Ph.D. degrees , otherwise not . Presumably the deciding factor is whether there is any substantial research component at the Hochschule or not . More information can be found here : <URL> . There you can also search if a specific Hochschule can grant PhD degrees or not .
The rules for a German professor are quite different than for a typical German employee . The first thing to note is that you will be a Beamter , which is a very special class of government employees . In particular , you are automatically exempted from the public healthcare system , as well as having to make direct payments into the social security system out of your paycheck . Instead , the pension payments are covered by your employer ( the government of the Land in which you work ) , while the Beihilfe system helps to defray part of your insurance costs ( the rest of which you pay for through a private insurance contract ) . In other words : you get billed for your health care ; your private insurance reimburses you for 50 percent of your costs , and 30 percent of the costs for other family members . You submit the remainder of the bill to the university , which reimburses the remaining 50 percent ( 70 percent ) . The net result of this is that you get a much higher percentage of your income as take-home pay relative to a traditional government employee . Your tax status depends on your marital status , so as a W1 , you can expect to take home somewhere between 2800 and 3200 euros per month , as reported by the <URL> website . There are some differences due to cost of living in different states . However , expect to pay about 200 $ per month for health care , or more if you have a family . However , I should also note that just this week came down a new <URL> from the German Federal Constitutional Court stating that the salaries for professors hired since 2005 are too low , and need to be adjusted . This has the potential to adjust salaries upwards somewhat -- although it is not yet clear by how much . ( The state of Hesse , against whom the ruling was made , has until January to adjust its salaries upwards . ) To answer your other questions : There are no ranks between W1 and W2 . The base salary is nonnegotiable , as it 's set by the state government for which you will work ; however , you can negotiate some terms of your " package " ( support for students and other workers ) , and you may be able to get some " performance bonuses " negotiated into the contract . Teaching duties are set by federal law , and are similarly nonnegotiable ( although you can negotiate the ability , for instance , to teach in English rather than German ) Bonuses are not available for single people with no children ; instead , according to German law , they 're actually taxed at a higher rate . There is no difference in salary based on nationality .
There are certainly papers citing patents , mostly in engineering fields . So , yes it is certainly OK to cite a patent . Now patents have an entirely different purpose than scientific articles . They usually contain detailed descriptions of methods and devices and ( sometimes wild ) speculations about practical applications of these . Useful to protect potential commercial use , but not really to scientists wanting to build on existing knowledge . More specifically , what they typically do n't contain are original experimental data , or other means of scientifically evaluating the described methods or devices . Very often , if the development of the patented method or device has led to scientific discoveries , these have been published separately as articles ( or conference proceedings for the fields where that applies ) . Those will be much more scientifically informative , and hence more likely to be cited in academic articles .
I think your question indicates a fundamental misunderstanding of what a honorary degree is , and who gets one . Fundamentally , an honorary degree can not be compared to a regular PhD . All the rules for getting a PhD fly out the window , as do all the perceived benefits for doing a PhD . If you get an honorary PhD , nobody will suddenly assume that you possess the subject knowledge of the holder of a regular PhD . Similarly , you seem to assume that an honorary degree is somehow an easy way towards a PhD . This is not the case . By and large , by the time you get an honorary degree , you either already have enough degrees or you will never need one again in your life . Can that person be called a doctor at all ? Yes , as long as you do n't pretend to have a " regular " PhD . can an Honoris causa graduate give lectures at a university ? Sure . Everybody can give a lecture given that he gets invited or appointed to do so . In the usual case , somebody important enough to receive an honorary doctorate is also somebody that an university would love to get for a lecture . Is it possible for one to get an honorary degree in science , or engineering Sure . How much demonstrated work would it take to get one ? Usually none .
In the US , it is very unusual to combine the title " Professor " with a first name . I have never been referred to as " Professor Tom " in my whole career . You can either write " Dear Prof. Smith " , using the family name , or " Dear John " . You should only write " Dear John " if you would call him " John " when you speak in person . ( For people you have n't met in person , the decision is a bit different ; but for people who you know personally , this is a good rule . ) For example , my students generally call me " Prof. Church " , but sometimes after they graduate I invite them to call me Tom ; in this case , it would be perfectly appropriate to send me a letter beginning " Dear Tom " . I would use " Hi John " only to convey a very informal tone . Even with colleagues or students with whom I 'm good friends outside of work , I still use " Dear Mary " when contacting them about professional business . For this reason , I do n't recommend using " Hi Prof. Smith " ; it mixes an informal term with a formal term .
This is so highly dependent on particular universities -- let alone particular regions -- that it is probably best just to ask students and faculty what is the culture at their particular university . I will give one example . At most American universities you should begin by calling all your instructors by " Dr. " or " Professor " , although in some cases your instructors will be neither one of these and should probably say so in response . For anyone who is either a Doctor ( i.e. , has a doctoral degree ) or a Professor ( in the United States this usually means " is on the tenure track " , but already there are variations ... ) , it seems a bit rude not to use one of these two appellations . When students call me " Mr. Clark " I assume they are just forgetting that they are not in high school anymore . But whether " Dr. " or " Professor " is preferred is highly variable . At my university it seems that " Dr. " is the go-to appellation : I have even heard other faculty refer to me as " Dr. Clark " when talking to students . Nevertheless I prefer being called " Professor " : getting my PhD was nice . Getting a tenure-track job took place three years later , and that 's when I really made it big . However at some places you call people " Professor " because you are not sure whether they have a doctorate , and for the ones who do , " Dr. " is the superior honorific . Et cetera ... ( I believe I learned some of this from Paul Halmos 's Automathography , which I highly recommend to all academics and not just to mathematicians : to mathematicians I would require that you read it if I could ! He goes on to explain more nuances than I did above . ) What you call your instructor also depends on things like their age , their gender , and honestly perhaps even their ethnic background . As a tenured Caucasian male , the desired aura of authority is already there : I do n't have to do anything special to summon it . On the other hand I am still " young " -- closer in age to some of my students than some of my colleagues -- so if I met a student in a non-academic context I would not want any deferential treatment . ( This is also a generational thing : telemarketers , phone company employees and so forth now call me and refer to me by my first name , and I wonder where our civilization is heading ... ) I am totally okay being called by my first name by any university student . Whether they are similarly okay doing so is another question , but I encourage this behavior particularly from former students and in contexts outside out of the university campus . If I were 65 years old and wearing a suit , calling me by my first name would seem less appropriate . ( In fact I had to steel myself at first to call all of my colleagues by their first names , even the ones who were famous mathematicians before I was born . But that is definitely contemporary American academic culture : any of my colleagues who calls me " Dr. Clark " is signalling that they want to strangle me . ) I feel that it is especially important not to use less formal appellations for female faculty . I covered a colleague 's class a few weeks ago , and one of the students asked a question , beginning with " Miss Matic said ... " And my answer began " Well , first things first : it 's Dr. Matic ... " I then got the student to agree that that was the correct thing to say before moving on to address the question . Also I feel honorbound to stand more carefully on honorifics when addressing minorities . It is sad to me that contemporary American society has not gotten past the point where this seems necessary ... but it has n't yet .
The end of the semester particularly the period between the end of lectures and when students finally leave campus ( which may be well after you 've submitted grades ) can be the busiest part of the semester because that 's when you spend a lot of time dealing individually with students that have questions , complaints , or problems . The reason that this is so time consuming is that there are typically lots of these students , and each complaining student can easily take an hour out of your day . Meanwhile you may also be grading a lot of term papers or student projects and you 're also busy writing , proctoring , and grading final exams .
I can address questions 1 and 2 ( although for 3 , all I know is that my friends say it is very different ) . When you are negotiating over salary , your leverage is determined by the best alternative you have . To keep from losing you to another employer , your job must offer a better combination of pay and benefits than anyone else ( including benefits like job security , having interesting colleagues and students , having flexible hours and the ability to choose your own projects , etc. ) . People in the humanities have very little leverage except from other academic jobs . Mathematicans have more , because there are applications in industry or government , so they get paid somewhat more , but this leverage is limited by the fact that many mathematicians do n't want non-academic jobs . Computer scientists have a lot of leverage , and business school faculty have even more . So basically it comes down to this . Business school faculty often have expertise that is in high demand outside academia and could earn them a lot of money , and there 's at least a stereotype that they care more about monetary compensation than some professors do ( which makes sense , given their interest in business ) . This means that to attract excellent faculty , business schools have to pay enough that job applicants would rather work there than in the business world . In principle , this is no different from other departments : literature faculty also have to be paid enough that they do n't leave for the business world . It 's just a question of how much that is . This really depends on the subfield . Business school faculty are certainly more likely to do outside consulting than scientists are , but there are no universal rules ( some business school professors do none at all , and some scientists run their own companies ) . Occasionally , a company will sponsor a university program according to some negotiated agreement , but consulting generally does not involve a pay-sharing deal . Instead , the faculty member simply consults part-time for the company , without using university resources , and is paid directly by the company . In the US , universities typically allow a certain amount of time to be spent on outside consulting , for example one day per week , with no special approval needed .
Scientists not only need to discover new knowledge but also have to share the knowledge to others . For the former , we have things like universities , collaborate groups and journals to take charge . For the latter , we have various forms from teaching , developing and maintaining softwares to writing or translating books , writing and editing in Wikipedia , answering ( and asking ) in SE , joining an academic club , working on a academic-related project , blogging , etc. . I think this is not correct . Discovering new knowledge is the actual research ( valued on all levels ) , " sharing to others " is writing publications ( valued so much that the common criticism is rather that publications count too much ) . What you mean is a different type of knowledge dissemination , basically the education of the broader public . This is indeed currently not widely valued , but I am not convinced that this is a fault of the system . Essentially , when an university hires a researcher , they want a researcher . They are specifically looking for somebody that generates new knowledge , not somebody that is good at breaking down this new knowledge for the layman ( this would be a science journalist , or somesuch ) , nor for somebody that mainly collects and summarizes the knowledge on Wikipedia or Stack Exchange . Hence , the answer to your question : When will contribution to community be valued ? If you understand this as " when will my contributions to community be comparatively valuable for applying to a research position as research results " , then the answer will likely be " never " .
I 've worked with a fair number of either researcher MDs or MD/PhDs , and myself have only a PhD , so I 'll try to give my perspective : Do You Need One : Probably not , if you 're only interested in the scientific questions about what you are doing , and are not particularly concerned with it 's direct application to patient care or the clinical setting . Basically , if there is a department outside a medical school that can house your research , you 're likely fine . Why Would Someone Pick One Up ? : There are many reasons for a researcher to have a MD or an MD/PhD - they 're interested in the clinical aspects of the research science they do , have seen their interests evolve over time toward more research and less patient care , or are in research areas that necessitate having the expertise that comes along with having an MD. . There are some medical school programs that are more oriented towards producing new researchers than practicing doctors , and medical schools are massive sources of clinical research in the U.S. It 's really not surprising there 's a number of professors out there with MDs - my doctoral advisor was one of them . There 's also some...field-specific traditions . For example , there are tons of MDs working in infectious disease research and epidemiology , because it spawns fairly naturally from " Treat this weird infection " to " Why does this weird infection infected X people ? " to " How do we stop this weird infection from spreading " .
Instructors often use some kind of curve to adjust for the varying difficulty of exams from one year to the next . The general idea is that if ( for example ) the class average on an exam is lower than it has been for the same course in previous years but the quality of the students ' work is the same , then the exam given this year might have been more difficult than the exam in previous years . It would be unfair to students ( and also reduces the signaling power of grades ) if their grade is strongly dependent on the year in which they happened to take the course . An instructor might choose to adjust the students ' grades to account for this . It 's generally unwise to assign grades in a way that is strictly norm-referenced , without taking into account the students ' demonstrated mastery of the course material , for reasons described in <URL> . For example , if the class average on an exam is lower than it has been in previous years , but the average quality of work submitted by students is also worse than usual , then the average grade of the class should be lower ( to preserve " fairness " and also the signaling power of grades . ) Some instructors might use a curve for other reasons , e.g. if their department has a policy about the maximum number of " A " grades an instructor can give out . ( Like <URL> . )
I agree with Dave Clarke . I think the primary purpose of a bibliography should be to offer the reader a way to read the cited material . A version of the paper on the arXiv achieves this goal better than any other means I know . However , it 's also important that the cited material has been verified . By citing the journal version of the paper , the author communicates that it has been .
end question
start question
How to quickly understand the main idea when reading a paper ?
How to efficiently read a paper is not something that can be taught over the internet in broad generalities . It seems pretty futile to try to teach it " in general " in general ( !! ) , by which I mean that if you 're trying to teach someone how to read a paper , you had better have at least one actual paper in hand . You can try to draw broader morals , but whatever lessons are there to be learned should be grounded in the reading of that particular paper . Thus for instance How to find the those parts which talk about the main idea ? would be silly to address without seeing the paper . I find more promise here : My advisor said you should understand the main idea of a paper in one hour , or at maximum in two hours . But I need at least 5 hours . Your advisor knows me ?!? Sorry , just kidding . Anyway , that 's exactly whom you should be talking to . But even with your advisor you are stuck on a way too general discussion . Go to her with with paper you are trying to read now , and learn how the advice applies to that paper . Let me also say that I am a bit skeptical of the hard limits your advisor is imposing , or more precisely with the way you are construing whatever your advisor told you . Obviously 1-2 hours can not be the amount of time needed to understand the main idea of every paper : some papers are just significantly longer , more difficult and/or more obscure than others . Speaking for myself : after some years of experience for reading for the main idea , depending on the paper , sometimes I can now grasp the main idea just as soon as I run my eyes over the first page ; sometimes it takes me an hour or two ; sometimes it takes me a full day 's work ; sometimes at the end of a full day 's work I find that I do n't understand the main idea . Where is this 1-2 hour figure coming from , and what does " should " mean here ? Maybe she means " Come back if you 've spent more than two hours on it and I 'll give you more help . " Or maybe she means that 's an upper bound for how long it would take her to read the paper . But she 's not a student , she 's supervising one . If there 's one matter in which students should be skeptical of their advisors , it 's in their advisors ' estimations of how long it will ( or " should " ) take a student to do something . It 's not a matter of arguing with your advisor but rather letting her in to understand your process . If it 's taking you so much more time than she expects , show her what you 're doing and see what she has to say . Let me also say that a longer time spent on something is n't inherently problematic . If you are reading in a language different from your own native one , it will take you longer -- and skimming will take you much longer . Most academics eventually realize that the people who can complete tasks more quickly are often but far from always the ones who can do the best work on those tasks . Real breakthroughs are things that people chew on and work through for weeks , months or years . Some speed freak types simply do n't have the patience or focus to linger on something for much longer than it takes for others to see how quick they are . So if you are eventually understanding what you 're reading quite well and you 're not lagging far behind in other tasks : ask yourself whether you really have a problem or just a certain skill that you 'd like to optimize when you get the chance .
Based on my experience , attending in conferences as the volunteers often makes you perform some pre-defined tasks , based on the considered role for you , tightly . As an instance , you might be recruited at the reception desk of the conference and most of your time will be dedicated to the registration-based stuffs and the related matters . Or seemingly , you would be engaged with the support team to make the conference atmosphere more convenient for the participants . So , you might conclude that most of your time would be dedicated to performing the tasks , as well as possible . But as most of the tasks might no fill all of your time at the conference , a good plan could be attending at the conference presentation sessions or conference lectures , are which within the scope of your interest . Of course , based on your chance and smartness , you may be able to grab some special opportunities . Here is my own experience : Once , I was at the service of the escort team at a conference and was responsible for accompanying the guest lectures of the conference to the hotels and conference hall , back and forth . Within the 3-day period of the conference , I did succeed to talk with one of the big GURUs of the control systems on the planet and culminated my raw ideas by his deserving assessments . So , just open your eyes and be on the edge of your seat to grab every sparkling opportunity . Good luck
There are basically no restriction on who can write a paper , so , clearly you can . If you have no affiliation , it might be hard to go publish a " free " paper ( e.g. , a technical report or a pre-print on arxiv ) , but you can always consider submitting your idea to a workshop/conference . However , you might have to pay the conferences/travel fees ( although some conferences might help you , if you ca n't afford it ) . You can also submit your idea to a journal , as many do n't charge anything to publish . You can of course also just write a PDF and put it on your website , or even do a long blog post . There is one thing you might need to be careful of , since you might not be used to write academic paper : a good paper is not just a good idea , this idea needs to be validated . In other words , you ca n't just write : " here is a cool idea I had " , you also need to describe how it differs from existing approaches ( perhaps your idea has been already published ) , and you need to describe why it 's a good idea . There are many approaches to do so , for instance by presenting your idea in a formal setting and prove that you can mitigate DDoS attacks ( probably under some assumptions ) . You can also run some experiments , and show that your approach mitigated x % more attacks than some known approaches . If you 're interested in eventually pursuing a career in academia , showing that you can explain and validate your work might be as important as having a good idea ( because not only you have a good idea , but you can convince others that it 's a good one ! ) . Note that another approach in your situation could be to implement your idea as an open-source software , and if it 's adopted by the community , then it 's another form of validation .
No doubt you can encounter useful words in novels , but you will encounter them at a much slower rate than with targeted study . If your goal is to learn GRE words quickly , a simple GRE study book would be more efficient . At the least , you should take a practice GRE test and see how you do on the vocab sections . If your vocab needs major improvement , reading novels is probably too slow to be of use for passing the GRE . In the long term , I think reading novels and other texts is a better ( and more fun ) way of learning how to actually understand and use a wide range of vocabulary , but for the short-term goal of improving your GRE score it may not deliver as much benefit .
Your strategy sounds sound to me . You can not read the papers from end to end . You need to weed out they papers you will possibly need in your review with as little effort as possible . Title and abstract should be enough . Once you have done this you should be left with a bunch of papers that are likely to be of use to you . While you have looked through them you must also consider how the material can be organized . There are many ways of doing this , chronological order ( boring ) , thematic order ( are there subfields ? ) , contradictions ( are there compeeting ideas ) etc. . The point is to try to get the information organized . You need some form of organization fo the papers so that you know how you will treat them in your review . Once you have found all papers you think you need you can start assembling the information into your text . It is at this point you can start reading them in more detail . It is still not necessary to read every detail . you need to focus on the background to the different conclusions drawn . The goal of the review should be to provide a new perspective on the field you have chosen so your own familiarity with the field ( papers ) is key . Try to collect as many as you can ; not all will be used .
The way I use this term , " priority " means " who had this idea first " . Of course , everyone can come up and say " hey , I totally had this idea to determine graph isomorphism in quasipolynomial time in 1990 " , so it is difficult to validate a priority claim unless there is some written material to back it up . But intellectual priority is the former concept ; publication dates are just an imperfect way to measure it . In fields where research is routinely disseminated before formal publication ( using arXiv , preprints , or conferences ) , such as mathematics , there are ( in my opinion ) fewer possibilities for issues such as " X had the idea one year before Y , but Y 's paper was published earlier " or " Y was a peer reviewer and scooped X 's idea " .
Abstract Firstly , the answer will tackle the question 's false assumption that the US is the most attractive destination for international students . Secondly , I will cite some of the factors making a country/region 's education system attractive to international students . Finally , to tackle some of the comments , I will present a chart showing number of international students per capita in selected countries . USA is not the most attractive destination for international students According to the <URL> , the number one destination of foreign students among OECD countries is Europe followed by Northern American region : European countries in the OECD were the destination for 38 % of foreign students in 2009 followed by North American countries ( 23 % ) . Despite the strong increase in absolute numbers , these proportions have remained stable during the last decade . To put the numbers above to global perspective , observe also that Foreign students enrolled in G20 countries account for 83 % of total foreign students , and students in the OECD area represent 77 % of the total foreign students enrolled worldwide . Factors driving attractiveness of higher education in OECD countries Again , according to <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Language as well as cultural considerations , quality of programmes , geographic proximity and similarity of education systems are determining factors driving student mobility . The destinations of international students highlight the attractiveness of specific education systems , whether because of their academic reputation or because of subsequent immigration opportunities . Commenters to the question cite the ratio of international students per capita as an indicator of attractiveness of education system for foreign students . While I do not see any direct correlation between attractiveness of an educational system and the ratio of foreign students per capita ( countries can be arbitrarily protective , or non-protective w.r.t. their own citizens ) , I prepared the following chart from the OECD data ( relevant to year 2009 ) : The chart was constructed by merging data from the <URL> with OECD countries population data from <URL> as published in the <URL> . The computation is done on non-citizen students column for the year 2009 , except for United States it is the number of non-resident students ( due to lack of a non-citizen students datapoint ) .
Having a qualified reader provide more than superficial corrections to an admissions essay is a valuable asset , and one which is almost certainly required for top tier institutions . Many American students are literally surrounded by qualified readers with diverse perspectives , while international students may have fewer contacts with the requisite mastery of the language . If the only competent advice a student can obtain is from a paid reader , they are still only narrowing the gap with their American peers . I think there are only two ethical arguments to consider here . First , is the paid service worth anything ? If the criticism and corrections are junk and the service does not increase any student 's chances at all and the service provider should reasonably be aware of this , then it 's clearly unethical . Second , does the contribution of the reader go substantially beyond what an American student would receive ? Specifically , do the contributions of the paid readers potentially cross the line to misrepresent the abilities of the applicant ? If the submitted essays are not representative of the , as you put it , story and voice but also of the English competence of the student , it could be a disservice both to universities and to inadequately prepared students . If you are clear of these two issues , I see no ethical complaints . Of course , a generous person might donate their time , but that does n't make a student who needs to earn a living unethical .
The dissertation is not a published work in the same sense as a journal or conference paper . It is normal for a recent graduate to take large chunks of their thesis , with minimal or no modification , and use the excerpts in more formal publications . You do not need to worry about self plagiarism in this context . The copying often goes the other way as well . If you already have published papers when it 's time to write your dissertation , you may take large chunks of the published papers and reuse them in the dissertation . In some fields ( mathematics or theoretical physics , for example ) , this is quite commonplace . People talk about " stapling your papers together " to make a thesis . In reality , there is more to it than that . Introductory and concluding material are needed , but many theses have chapters that are based on published manuscripts , with relatively little editing .
Quite possibly , your supervisor is encouraging you to write early , to learn how to write , and to get into the habit of writing your results down . You would gain a lot by watching this youtube video by Haskell inventor Simon Peyton Jones on <URL> . Part of his message is that you can do the research while you are writing , meaning that many ideas will come to you as you are writing things down . You ask how to write a paper . Did n't you just read a whole bunch ? Pick one that you found easy to follow and inspiring . Model your paper on its structure and style . Regarding the actual work . A formal model of a for-loop has already been done , so I suspect that this is not the right level of abstraction to consider . What is the data to which your for loop applied ? What did it mean ? What did the parameters mean ? How are the results of your code interpreted ? Were some better than others ? On what scale ? Part of science is learning to ask and answer the right questions .
To answer your particular question : When trying to read it from home , it tells me " To read this story in full you will need to login or make a payment ( see right ) . " ( costs : 30 $ US ) . You can easily check this by logging in from home , some public WiFi , or even with your mobile device ( as long as it is not using WiFi in your university network to connect ) .
Generally speaking , the letter of recommendation should present you , as a candidate , to your potential employer . As such , it should be from someone who : Knows you in a professional capacity . Knows you in the capacity which is ( at least partly ) relevant to the position you apply for . To successfully learn on the master program , the candidate shall have a certain set of skills ( e.g. knowledge of a particular subject ) , but also soft skills ( commitment , dedication , self-motivation , teamwork , responsibility , ability to work independently , leadership , etc. ) . If the head of your professional organisation can emphasise these attributes in their letter , and justify them using examples and evidence , it is a ( very ) good idea to have the recommendation letter from them .
Keywords were supposed to be , considerably , fixed based on Medical System Headings ( MeSH ) , when the aforementioned web-based searching systems were not still at the service . Nowadays , the researchers often try to take scrutinized search into account to acquire their target papers and resources , as close as possible to their contextual subject . If you are doing a specific regime of research , do consider the to-the-aim keywords , specialized for your work . Because they will be traced by the search engines , efficiently .
Aside from giving excellent talks at important conferences , here are several other ideas . I 've seen all of these work ( although rarely all for the same paper ) . Maintain a freely available copy ( or at least an arXiv link ) on your personal web page . Keep your CV up to date , including links to freely available version of all your papers . Make sure Google Scholar and similar indexing services are indexing your paper . Announce / brag about your paper on social media : Facebook , Twitter , Google + , LinkedIn , Tumblr , Pinterest , LiveJournal , etc. . If you have pages at clickbait sites like Academia.org or ResearchGate , upload copies ( of the arXiv version ) there . ( But if you do n't , do n't start now . ) Write a blog post about your paper . Better yet , convince someone else with a well-read blog to write a blog post about your paper . Give invited talks about your work at other universities/labs . If necessary , invite yourself . If you are a student , ask your advisor to brag about your new paper . If your paper significantly extends the work of other authors , or applies it in a novel way , contact those authors directly with a link to ( a free version of ) your paper . ( But do n't send a copy to someone just because you cite them . ) Whenever your paper provides an answer to a question on ( for example ) physics.stackexchange , answer the question and include a link to your paper . Develop a reputation for stellar work , so that people in your field regularly check your web page / arXiv / indexes / journals for your newest papers . The last method is by far the most effective .
I had some serious qualms about this when I started out research in undergrad . My advisor had some pretty mistaken notions about the topic we were pursuing at the time . He is a very approachable and understanding guy but I was still a bit hesitant to say anything . After all , he was the established expert and I was the lowly undergrad . How I approached it was along the lines of : " I 'm not sure if I 'm doing this correctly but would you mind checking my work ? Maybe you can explain what I 'm doing wrong . " You do n't want to challenge or outright claim your advisor is wrong . You would n't do this to a friend  and you really should n't do it to an advisor - it 's a good way to ruin your professional relationship . If you 're right , you 've come off as very arrogant and create some animosity between you and your advisor ; if you 're wrong , you 've let your arrogance get the better of you and killed your credibility . Professors are human and they can be mistaken more often than you 'd think . You 're going to run into this a lot more than you might have thought . After a while , you can start to be more upfront and honest after you 've established plenty of rapport , but early on it is a bad idea .  I 've done this and nearly ended a friendship with a very good friend because my arrogance got the better of me .
If the conference is well-known enough , then it is n't necessary to name the keynote speaker , because the conference will be recognized regardless . If the conference is n't well-known in the field , name-dropping is going to come across crass and not very helpful . So in either case , I do n't see any advantage to name-dropping .
Writing grant proposals with your supervisors is great experience and good for your career . Writing in partnership with more experienced researchers is a great to to get " apprenticeship " experience and to become introduced to key funding agencies , program managers , and the expectations and practices in interacting with them . Moreover , even if you move on before the grant is funded , you may find yourself able to work on the project via a subcontract to your new institution or else to help supervise students on the project from afar ( I certainly had this experience ) . Thus , if there is a good opportunity for doing collaborating with your supervisors on grant-writing , I highly advise doing so .
Yes , I would advise against using the words novel or new for the following reasons ( which overlap with what you already argued ) : It 's almost impossible to fully ascertain that something is new . Even if you just discovered some outstanding and surprising effect like superconductivity , somebody else may have discovered it a month earlier and is just about to publish it . At the same time , you are expected to have ascertained the novelty of what you are doing as well as reasonably possible and to document it in your introduction or literature review . To quote <URL> : The message you want to send is " I have read every paper on this topic , and none of them do this thing that I 'm about to do . " If you have any reason to believe that what you are doing is not novel , you should either document this ( e.g. , " we tried to reproduce this experiment " ) or not try to publish at all . Thus , there is never any reason to claim something is novel -- it is implicit that everything you write that is neither common knowledge nor equipped with a citation is novel to your best knowledge . The <URL> by the American Physical Society ( one of the most prolific publishers in physics ) argues similarly : Physical Review adheres to the following policy with respect to use of terms such as " new " or " novel : " All material accepted for publication in the Physical Review is expected to contain new results in physics . Phrases such as " new , " " for the first time , " etc. , therefore should normally be unnecessary ; they are not in keeping with the journal 's scientific style . Furthermore , such phrases could be construed as claims of priority , which the editors can not assess and hence must rule out .
Yes , use Web of Science ( Thomson Reuter 's ) database called Cited Reference Searching . You can download a list of citations , which can be exported as * . csv . Here is a <URL> showing some of the basic functionalities .
You should look for faculty working in the field that you are interested in researching , and then pitch your research idea directly to them . Make sure that you do a good job with a preliminary review of the literature for your idea and understand the professor 's specific research interests , so that your letter does not sound like any of the hundreds of mail-merge messages that professors get every week . If your idea is really worthwhile and you do a good targeted job of pitching it , changes are that someone will agree to work with you on it . However , the reality is that most students come into a PhD without a really good sense of existing literature or the feasibility of their ideas . It is for this reason that there is great value in being open-minded about your PhD thesis . Many students make the mistake of thinking that the PhD should be the pinnacle of their career , solving some grand problem in human existence . This might happen for a few figures in history , but , more typically , the PhD is the start of a research career and not the end of it .
end question
start question
How to start a startup based on university research ?
This will heavily depend on the specific country you are talking about . We have a so-called <URL> that aims at encouraging " entrepreneurship and innovation by identifying , supporting and providing guidance for potential high-tech startups and spin-off companies originating at TU/e . " Specifically , they guide researchers along the entire process : from checking whether the idea can be patented to actually establishing a startup / spin-off company . With respect to copyright : lion 's share of our research is being published so there can be no problems for companies to use the ideas presented in scientific papers . Using unpublished results might be more tricky but I can imagine that the university will agree to formally keep copyright and allow the company to benefit from it under some restricted conditions .
In the academical sphere , I never heard any similar . I know only Middle Europe , but multiple countries there . Its reason is n't that the Profs here would be addict , but its exact opposite : it is unthinkable on such a level , that nobody thinks it would be needed . The wider context : The long-term mental harms of drugs would make you probably ineligible to fulfill a full-time academical job . Most of the drugs have a time until they are emptied from your body . You can google for that on the net . After that , the test will be negative . But it would be much better if you would n't need such tricks , i.e. you could simply pass the test without any problem . Employers often have similar traditions , for example they can wish some papers from the police that you are n't an offender . Considering things like these are in our cultural circles nearly unheard , it is really no more as a tradition . Maybe it could serve as a little positive psychological effect to show for everybody , that your university/company is perfectly " pure " . Although knowing , that everybody laughs on this little ritual behind your back , can cause maybe more harm . I suggest do n't play the idealist liberal , allow them this show . They need it for the feeling that they are " clean " , it does n't cost for you anything , and they are your employer . There is no real reason to reject the test .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
First off the fact that one group is dominating will be implicitly understood if you provide a paragraph or two summarizing their work and cite their publications . In such a paragraph you could add words like " ground-breaking " or phrases that describe the dominance of the group on the field . You could for example start the paragraph by saying : " The work concerning risk assessment of [ ... ] has largely been carried out by [ the research group ] ( example citations ) . " ( I hope you see the main idea of my attempt ) Then you follow up on what they have done and cite their work . It is just important to keep the tone as neutral as possible and let the citeable work speak for itself . Spending one or more paragraphs describing the work should be enough to make everyone understand the message .
I find this question very interesting but difficult to tackle . It will be difficult to provide specific answers to a general hypothetical situation since one is left with too many unknowns . First , one could wonder what the policies at the university are like ? Do they have a panel for scientific fraud , misconduct etc. ? Are there guidelines in place ? Then , we deal with persons and each situation is unique . People cheat for a variety of reasons from fear and feelings of inferiority and inadequacy , through stress and peer pressure to the narcissistic or psychopathic . Thirdly , the severeity of the problem is on a continuous scale and the response depends where you are on that scale . This also holds for the reverse problem , what works in one place may not work in another for these reasons . In your question you state you wish to keep harmony but in essence the fact that " you " are uneasy with someones less than adequate research methods is already disharmony . So regardless if you do or do not do anything , there will be disharmony , either you will feel bad or someone else will . So there is no painless way out . As for the case . I can see that you describe a sliding scale for what I would call poor science ( overinterpreting results ) to actual falsification of results . In the latter case , it is clear , one " must " pursue the problem . How this is done will vary but I am sure there are guidelines in place either at the university level or at a national level ( on my home turf the national science foundation provides such services ) . In the case of someone producing poor science by either , for example , being too lazy to do the work or by jumping to conclusions , there can be only one way forward : to try to confront the person and have open discussions around the science ( or lack thereof ) to bring out the problem in the open . It may be possible to start a discussion group where you read and discuss each others manuscripts . Such discussions are useful under any circumstances to help improve the manuscript and spot problems before submitting to a journal . Under such circumstances the problems can be discussed ( if they become solved is a different matter ) . My sense is that a person who is aware of their shortcomings is not generally fond of talking about them so you may end up having these discussions with everyone but the one you want to target .
In this particular case Author of the framework you your advisor but that is strongly dependent on your local and institutions ' customs and practices . Ask your advisor informally . When still in doubt , always add yourself second to the first draft . If appropriate , your advisor will suggest moving you to first position , which is a lot less embarrasing than the other way around ( your advisor suggesting you should take your name down a notch )
This answer is under context that the OP 's preprint was submitted primarily by him as a game piece in a competition with another group . . We uploaded the manuscript because we were scared of being scooped . We thought that by uploading the manuscript , it would make it impossible for another group to publish the same results . This answer uses the context that two or more groups were working on similar measurements in competition , simultaneously and independently ; likely there was awareness of each other as the competition for this result ; and that the only effect on group B ( if they even saw the preprint ) is ' lighting a fire ' under someone to finish the write up the results to try to either beat a submission date to publication ( just in case the OP 's preprint was prematurely posted to try to bluff the competition ) or to try to show how close both groups were in time and get an ' also ran ' credit . Notice that there was no mention of which group thought of these experiments first , or giving credit for the ideas . Yes , It is ethical for group B to submit a paper for work done independently even knowing that there is a ' preprint ' floating around from group A who appear completing their independent results simultaneously . Most of the fixup would occur after one or the other published articles appear . Giving everyone in this particular situation the benefit of doubt ; a solid assumption is that each group expects the other to submit any solid results for publication . ( and that both would prefer the published articles to be citation-of-record ) . It might be nice to cite a preprint in this case as a placeholder . But , the real issue occurs when the first paper gets ' in print ' and the still-waiting group can compare submission dates . Will group A or group B do their duty ? ( As it turns out from additional comments in the OP 's post , group B submitted their work before the OP 's preprint appeared . . The OP should add a citation to group B in his in-review paper . ) . To expect the preprint to be treated as the priority game changer between the two groups in this very artificial situation is not fair . It was posted as a game-piece in the race to establish priority between neck-and-neck groups doing the same experiment . Either group here could have abused a preprint posting ( e.g. , putting something out that is not ' ready ' or full of minor or major errors to establish claims like a patent troll ) and then fixing it up in a later version . If we are using traditions still mostly in play , when it is a ' race ' for priority , what will count to the community in establishing priority is when was the paper submitted to the journal . ( If someone tries to publish to early , and their work is not ready , there is chance it will get rejected , giving some checks and balances ) Finally - Journals will care about the submission date , not a preprint posting date . OP 's paper is still in review , with group B 's paper appearing first . It is usually is not a reason to reject group A 's paper . Group B 's paper had not appeared when the referees started reviewing . Traditionally , what would happen when the dust settles is that group A and/or group B 's paper would add citation or corrigendum . Pretty much for everyone else , if two papers with similar important results appear about the same time , they both will be cited more or less equally and/or together . The moral being , ( in this case ) that if one is worried about establishing priority in a race and trying all possible gambits , the ( ready to publish ) paper should be submitted for publication immediately after being posted on preprint server . Then it has what protections are currently possible under traditional model and any newly evolving models . * I likely will get negative comments saying that I imply to ' ignore at will citing or acknowledging unpublished ( but reliable ) preprints ' . ( No , I am not ) . But this case seems to be about independent , simultaneous competition where the preprint was used by group A to either 1 ) pretend they had already had version ready to be submitted for publication to psych out competitors from submitting their own , or 2 ) indicate to community that version was just submitted for publication and anyone who thereafter submitted would not have the priority when the dust settled . * In clarification - in later comments to the original posted questions , here is timeline deduced after my original answer was created . Group A ( the OP ) and group B at conference in their subfield . OP or member of group A shows their results in their presentation . From OP 's comments , it is pretty clear that any ' published ' conference abstracts available before or after conference do not present any details of results ( which usually means that presentations standard may be work-in-progress - no one in audience is going to complain or ask for a ' talk ' retraction later if results or understanding evolves between talk and a final publication . Group B submitted their work for publicatio
None . One good paper makes its author ( s ) look good , but does not make the university more or less remarkable ( either in term of perception by the research community or rankings ) . It takes a lot of good output ( papers , conferences , etc. ) for people to start saying " hey , that university has great research done in so many research groups , it looks like a great place " , and for whatever rankings to be affected . Unless by " good " you mean " outstanding " , not in the academic sense " quite okay but I 'm writing in hyperbolic style " but in the meaning of " exceptionally good ; clearly noticeable " . One groundbreaking ( Nobel level , if you wish ) discovery made at a single institution will help it .
Sure it is acceptable for a Lecturer to refuse to do this , given that it is n't a condition of the Lecturer 's being hired that they agree to publicly posting the information , nor is doing so strictly required for the lecturer to do the other parts of the job that are required . My own view is that it 'd be crazy not to make your information publicly available , since there 's no harm in doing so , but much harm in terms of lost opportunities from not doing it . Still , there 's no legal or even moral prohibition against making poor career choices .
As far as I know , no such bibliometric is in use . However , I think your question is predicated on a couple of misconceptions , which I will try to clear up . First , your citation count does n't " rate " you as a researcher . Yes , it 's something that people often look at in context with other things to get an idea of how much an impact your research has , but any bibliometric only captures a small aspect of this ( if you want , you can think of this as a random variable which measures " impact " or " influence , but with extremely large variance ) . And people know average citation counts vary a lot by fields and subfields . Serious researchers in your field will evaluate you based on your work and the opinion of experts in the field . I do n't think your idea is a bad one , but there are also various issues with the bibliometric you propose , which you may or may not have thought about : One obvious drawback is that this number no longer measures " scope of impact . " One person who writes a paper with a single citation , which is only a self-cite ( e.g. , this may happen in a corrigendum ) gets a 1 for this bibliometric , which is the same value as someone who in 20 different papers with 20 references each . The number of references a paper has is largely a function of the authors ' style and type of paper being written . When authors add gratuitous self-cites or pressure others to cite their works , that unfairly lowers this bibliometric for the other references . Also , you might philsophically be thinking of the weight in your proposed bibliometric as a measure of how much a cited paper influenced the current one , but the reality is far different . Some cited papers will be a lot more influential than other ones for a given work , and there is no simple bibliometric way to determine ( cf. <URL> ) . Not a drawback so much as pushback : this will give everyone a smaller citation number than they currently have , so I can imagine many people would be against it .
Always use the name of the school that was correct at the time when you were doing something . So , if you mention your first degree , use University A and when you mention your current activities , use University B . If there is a chance that whatever you are writing is read by somebody from outside this university or who joins this university years later and could be oblivious of its past name , use footnotes or parentheses to indicate the name change like this : University A School of Engineering ( now University B School of Engineering ) University B School of Engineering ( formely University A School of Engineering ) Furthermore use pronouns and referrers to avoid confusion , when both of them appear close-by , e.g. : I apply to University B School of Engineering because I already did my BSc at this institution and this was a positive experience . Unless the university failed to make all its personell and students aware of the change , I do not see a reason to mention the name change on documents that do not leave this university like essays and applications . ( In particular the administrative staff is probably rather annoyed by the name change and prefers to be reminded of it as little as possible . )
What do you want to do with your life ? University is one way of getting to some of the answers . Trade school or apprenticing is another , if you think that 's closer to what you want to spend your life doing . It 's also legitimate to say you do n't know yet -- in which case you need to decide whether starting classes would help you decide what interests you , or if doing something else for a year makes more sense . I knew what I wanted to study ( or thought I did ; turns out I was close but not on the mark ) , but even so I decided to take a year off before college ; I needed a bit of maturation time , and to switch from being the youngest in the class to being one of the older kids , for my own comfort . Spent the year doing volunteer work in a hospital ( electronic repair , " biomedical engineering " ) , which was certainly educational in the general sense , helped build my self confidence , and may actually have helped my college application stand out from others . " ... There are nine and sixty ways / of constructing tribal lays , / And every single one of them is right ! " -- Kipling
As some comments note , answers will vary dramatically by field , but it seems better to have a bunch of answers for different fields to one question , instead of having people ask the same question a dozen times for different fields . For math , if you 're talking about a completed , submitted paper that has n't been published yet ( say , because it 's still being refereed ) , you should feel free to talk about it ; the submission date proves your claim on the result , so it ca n't really be stolen at this stage . ( Also , you already put it on the arXiv , so it 's already public , right ? ) Suppose you 're still writing the paper , but the results are completely solid . There are good reasons to tell people about the result : you may be want to discuss ideas for how to build on your paper , you may want to give people a head 's up that the theorem is coming -- say , so they can use it to prove things themselves , and you may want to establish a partial claim on the result in case someone else is doing the same thing . There are also good reasons not to tell people : even though you 're really awfully sure the result is solid , there might still be mistakes ; routinely announcing results well in advance of the paper can negatively affect your reputation ; someone could use your ideas to write their own paper faster . ( There 's an interesting phenomenon where once people know a theorem is true , it becomes easier to solve ; sometimes a problem is open for a long time , and then abruptly solved multiple times in a short period . ) Taking these together , I 'd advise not to announce a result until the paper 's finished unless there 's a strong reason to do so . This is particularly true early in your career , when it 's more likely that you 'll mistakenly believe a proof was really-definitely-totally finished . ( I was given this advice when I was in grad school , and while I have n't followed it 100 % of the time , I 've never regretted following it . )
Since the ordering of authors differs between fields the meaning and usefulness of a corresponding author also varies . In fields I am familiar with , the corresponding author is usually the same as the " first author " ( quotes because it may not be literally the first ) . Many journals therefore do not explicitly identify a first author unless different from the " first " . There are then several cases where the corresponding author may need to be identified . One example is when a person lacking a permanent academic address is first author . Then the supervisor may take on the responsibility for the paper and be corresponding author . This can be important since it can be near impossible to track down someone who has left academia and so the supervisor stands for continuity in terms of contact . There are many variants on this and in some cases , a person heading a project or who by legal obligations carries responsibility for a project may be identified as corresponding author . This could be the case with some governmental organisations where communications are funnelled through hierarchies for bureaucratic reasons . I am sure there are lots of examples good and bad but the main purpose of identifying corresponding author , unless first , is so that anyone requiring more information can go directly to the main source for such . So based on this background and the field you are in you may find a good way to determine corresponding author . In most cases , I would say it is the person who has done the most work , or the one who " owns " the project . It is not clear in some cases whether it is the student or the advisor who should be corresponding author . One also has to weigh in the intellectual work behind the project as a whole and from that perspective the person who has done the work , perhaps a detail in a much bigger perspective , may not be the appropriate person for details although that person has done most of the work for the paper in question . So in some cases the question is definitely harder to answer . Not being corresponding author , does not necessarily detract much from being first author since such details are not visible in literature searches and CVs .
No . I work at a university that focuses almost exclusively on research ( we have only graduate students , most of whom are Ph.D. students , and the number of postdocs , research staff , etc. is approximately equal to the number of students ) . A few faculty members are well known as excellent teachers , and a few are commonly known to be poor teachers . In general , I do n't think the distinction has very much influence on the respect accorded to each within the university ( and even less in the larger academic community ) . But I think the good teachers are better liked , both by their peers and the administration . I certainly appreciate it when I find that students are well prepared thanks to having taken a course with a " good " teacher . And bad teachers are occasionally so bad that they cause administrative problems , which makes everyone unhappy . Part of each faculty member 's annual review is an evaluation of his/her teaching ( by the dean ) . A positive review is definitely a good thing .
Academia is s sort of pyramid scheme . The number of people interested in positions at the next level up greatly exceeds the number of vacancies . This is not a secret so an applicant who wants to go into industry should not be disadvantaged . That said , whether you will be allowed to commercialize the results of your PhD research will depend on the University and group / department policies as well as the source of your funding and any conditions attached to that .
In the German academic system , assistant professor positions were introduced only in 2002 . Recently , there have been studies evaluating how well these positions have been established , and how it affects the career paths of junior researchers . One example is a project by the Center for Higher Education ( CHE ) , which is described here ( in German unfortunately ) : <URL> . Scrolling down to publications shows references to articles where data from this study have been published ( again only in German ) . One difficulty in interpreting this data with respect to your question is that tenure track positions are rare in Germany ( an estimate I remember , but do n't have a reference for now , is that 10 % of assistant professor positions are tenure track ) . On the one hand , that means that " being denied tenure " is almost the norm for these positions . On the other hand , it 's also possible that professors become tenured even though they have n't been on a formally tenure track position . Also , the statistical population for this study are persons who have been assistant professors in the past , not only those who have been denied tenure . Thus , the study does not give directly the percentages for all the positions in your question , and some data ( e.g. field of study ) was not collected or published , but still , the results can be used to estimate some of these percentages . So let 's get to the key conclusions that can be drawn : For 1. , 85 % of former assistant professors have a tenured professor position now ( either through tenure track or at another institution ) For 2. , 6 % of all former assistant professors have a non-tenured academic position Summarizing 3 . - 5. , 9 % have a position outside academia .
On the one hand , referees can reject your paper for all sorts of foolish reasons . I would not if I were refereeing , but that means nothing for some random person with an axe to grind . I would n't worry about this scenario too much though , because it would require some relatively extreme timing to happen . On the other hand , even if it did happen , if people are citing you and you are having an impact , is it really that much of a problem if the paper is " just " in arXiv ? Only the most blind and foolish Impact Factor junkies would hold the lack of brand name against you . Also , you will write many papers in your career , and I would be startled if such a situation happened more than once .
As far as equipment is concerned , in computer oriented fields I can assure you that the only thing equipment can affect is time and performance . I have done most of my personal work on an 8 year old laptop , and since half that work was on game development you can understand that lack of processing power has very visible results , but that does n't mean you ca n't make anything , it will just run slow ! Just mentioning it because one may argue that in developing countries equipment is scarce . As far as datasets are concerned , I propose four options : - You use public datasets already out there . That 's not the best because you have to pick one of a few options rather than gather data fitting your needs . Also having original data is considered a pretty good thing in research , though I personally do n't consider it that crucial . - You collect your own data either within the country ( it always makes an impression when you get out of the lab and get your hands dirty collecting data ) or online , with the help of other institutions that may make it easier for people to complete answer forms etc. . - You collaborate with an institution in another country , or even form a network of institutions within your or similar countries , and use collective data . Forming an official research network will also have a nice ring to it and may attract some publicity . - The final option is to contact other departments that are not working exactly on what you are working on , but may be interested in collaborating , if you can offer them some common goal . An example would be creating a database with advanced search capabilities on ancient literature , where the department of philosophy ( or equivalent ) would provide datasets and you would provide the framework . Note that you may have to develop software that will be easy for them to use before they can start building a dataset , but this will pay off eventually . I personally would go for option 4 , as it would also broaden the scope of interest in the project . 3 will give you some recognition outside the country , and 2 does n't really have any specific bonuses , but it may establish the institution as self-relying and productive , especially if you do this again in the future . There are probably a couple more options I have n't thought of , but there are probably the most notable , best of luck .
The quality of the university and the quality of the theses produced are not perfectly correlated . You are just as likely to end up with a " nothing special " thesis at a Cambridge as at a Random State University . The criterion for awarding a PhD is the completion of an independent and original contribution to the field of knowledge one is studying . There is no requirement that it be " groundbreaking . " That said , given that the " top " universities also tend to have superior resources available to students , the likelihood that a " nothing special " thesis will be accepted by the advisor as suitable for a PhD thesis is also somewhat mitigated as a result .
end question
start question
Re-using a paper from one class for another ?
Almost invariably , the answer to " Is it OK to submit X for a class assignment ? " is " Ask the instructor . " . You do need to ask yourself whether your objective for the geochemistry class is to get a good grade , or to improve your knowledge and skills in the area of geochemistry , or both . Even if the instructor agrees with recycling the old paper , you may get more out of the class if you pick a different topic and write a new paper .
It looks totally normal to hand in the letter from the main supervisor instead of the co-supervisor . If you need a second letter , ask someone from another project . I would not advise to hand in two letters from the same project anyway , it looks as if you have nothing else to offer .
Think of it like visiting somebody else 's house . Your friend is your host , but also shares her " house " with a bunch of roommates . She is the one who will know best what sort of etiquette is followed in her community . Why not ask her , " Where would be a good place for me to study around here ? " You might get sent to one of the desks , or to an empty meeting room , or the student lounge , or the coffee shop down the street . There 's no way to know without knowing the lab culture , and your friend is the one in the best position to judge .
The way I see it , there are a number of factors at play : Your goals : Do you want your paper to be published in a high-impact journal ? If so they will most likely be interested in the whole story rather than a small piece of it . Readability/General appeal : Can you make a coherent story with individual components ? Will they all be interesting for wider audience on their own ? In other words , if you opt for multiple papers out of one project ; can you make sure these will be able to stand on their own ? I personally think going for multiple papers is only valid when combining them into a single big paper would push aside some of your interesting results ( or methods ) to a metaphorical corner Limitations imposed by the target journal : Can you actually put together all that in a single manuscript ? In biomedical research you always get a limit on the number of words in the manuscript , and there is only so much you can put in supplementary . With regards to quality-vs-quantity , I heard that early on in your career quantity is more important while as you become more and more senior , quality becomes the main concern . I am often told that as a PhD student I can , and should try to get involved in as many papers as I can . Around the time I do post-doc , however , it 's time I pay a lot of attention to where I put my name and try to work on a good paper , preferably in a high-impact journal .
Unless you are banned by a society and forbidden to publish in their journals for some reason ( e.g. plagiarism ) , there are fences between two different journal submission systems . And no rule known to me . However , two aspects require caution : close journals , especially with the same publisher , may have the same editors , area editors , etc. . It is interesting to check the editor list and check for an overlap since reviewers are hard to find , I suspect that a publisher may have a database of all its parts reviewers ( whatever the journal ) . So with a similar paper , the same keywords , you might as well end up with the same reviewer . Who might have mixed feelings about reviewing " the same paper " twice . From what I understand from your question , your paper might have been mildly reviewed , possibility checked by an editor , who made the decision himself . So the second point might be as less concern .
In the areas in which I work , there are no formal rules and it is left up to the author when to separate an equation and when to embed it in the text . When I am writing , I find that there are three fairly straightforward principles that work well for me in determining whether an equation ( or other mathematical statement ) deserves its own line or can be inline with the text : Will I need to refer to the equation elsewhere ? If so , it needs its own line , and equation numbering as well . Is it more than ~ 1/3 of a line long ? Anything so long that it is likely to get broken across lines and otherwise be a typographical mess should be pulled out onto its own line . Numbering is not required . Do I want the reader to " pause " and contemplate the equation , or do I want it to " flow " as part of the sentence encompassing it ? This last needs a little bit more explanation ... let 's elaborate on one of the examples from the original question . If I write the sentence this way : We know that the identity a ^ 2 + b ^ 2 = c ^ 2 holds true if the system is in condition X. then the equation should be inline , because the sentence is really about condition X , rather than about the equation . If , on the other hand , the reader 's attention should be directed to the equation , then it is better to use something like the following form , with the equation on its own line : We know that if the system is in condition X , then the following identity holds : a ^ 2 + b ^ 2 = c ^ 2 Note : these principles reduce to a similar effect as the style guide given by @silvado
The existing answers seem to me extreme . I do n't think some sort of draconian blanket " leaving-the-room policy " is needed here . I would suggest the following : For students leaving occasionally : Ignore it . They are adults and sometimes things in their lives may take higher priority than your class ( e.g. going to the bathroom , feeling unwell , family emergencies , etc ) . If it 's distracting to you , well , deal with it . It 's a classroom , not a funeral , and you are a professional . Take a breath and get back to teaching . If you see a particular student leaving often : Have a private word with them to see if things are okay . They may have special circumstances that you do n't know about ( chronic illness is one distinct possibility ) . Once you know their situation , you may be able to offer specific suggestions that will reduce the disruption and/or get them more engaged in the class . If , after talking to them , you are convinced they are just walking out from spite , and they wo n't stop : Follow your institution 's policy on disruptive students . Your department chair should have further guidance . It may ultimately be necessary to drop them from the class . A short break in the middle of a 75-minute class is a reasonable idea , but I would keep it very short : perhaps 1-2 minutes , enough to stand up and stretch , not more . It should not significantly reduce the amount of time students spend on task . ( Otherwise , as mentioned above , you may encounter problems with your institution 's authorities that your class does not provide as much instructional time as promised by its number of credit hours . Moreover , some students will see it as wasted time and resent it . ) Better yet , break up the lecture with some other sort of productive activity ( small group discussions , problem solving , etc ) . I do n't think it 's appropriate to publicly shame students for poor etiquette , or shut them out of class if they leave . You will unfairly punish students who legitimately need to step out for a few minutes , and anyone who is doing it from spite or boredom will just be further alienated .
Short answer : No . Long answer : Only under certain circumstances where you have explicit permission to do so . Be aware that even if you have permission to do so , there are many folks who take an extremely dim view of multiple publishing .
For your CV , do n't focus on the fact that you quit the other program , but that you attended it for one term . As such , it would fit best in the section where you list your past education . Definitely send your transcript , because it shows that you achieved some things during that term , and will also count into the evaluation of your current knowledge . The more delicate aspect is of course how to explain your quitting without full completion of the other program . However , I do n't think that it will be a very critical aspect of your application . Such switches happen a lot , for various good reasons , and reviewers of your application will not automatically view it as negative if you do n't push them in that direction . If you have good explanations for switching the program , you can put it in a motivation letter . For example , how , during the other program , you discovered that the program you are applying to know fits much better to your interests and skills . The CV would n't be be a good place for such reasons . If you ca n't offer an explanation that gives your application a bonus point , do n't try to discuss around it in your application documents . But be prepared for questions in this direction in a potential interview .
As editor I would not accept this in a publication . If it is published it should be referenced . Yes , it bumps the references for the authors and yes , bad science may attract a fair amount of citations for all the right ? / wrong ? reasons . But , it is not up to the authors to decide how referencing should be made , journals have guidelines that should be followed . Having the citation properly referenced makes it easier for others to find the article and see it for themselves . Furthermore , from another point of view the statement that something is " unscientific " is not appropriate either . It is an opinion . The cited paper can be unscientific but the academic way to show this is not to just say it but to prove it . Your quote is a specific case , of which I know nothing , so the reply concerns the general case but I would react if I saw something like that in a paper I edit and I would ask the authors to stick to facts . One last point is that if a paper is really bad , then it should be considered for retraction . That is how scientifically extremely poor , bordering on dangerous , papers are handled .
I assume you are talking about a document that is part of your application to universities ( e.g. for a PhD ) , which would be called a research statement here in the UK . Then the answer is simple : you want to maximise your chances of each application . So invest the extra effort and make individual documents to maximise your chances . Different departments have different priorities , so you want to emphasise how your plans fit to the research agenda of each place you are applying to . While it may be convenient to send the same SOP to each place , you can show that you have researched the place you are applying to and at least modify the SOP to fit to the place you are applying to .
First , note that a course on OOP is probably not the same as a course just on C++ . The C++ language was designed by Stroustrup to support the developer in multiple styles of programming , including OO . C++ today has become such a huge and complex language , moreover one for which which professional programming style has significantly evolved since the 98 standard . For example , its support for and take-up of functional programming has grown significantly . I 'm assuming you want to do well on the course , as opposed to simply learning skills . Now , it 's a long while since I 've had a look at Deitel and Deitel , and I ca n't say I 've good memories of it . However , hopefully the book is recommended because does take an approach supporting the OOP of the course and the subset of C++ you are expected to learn on the course . So go ahead and get the book . Having said that , if you really want to learn C++ itself well enough to be able to use it as a professional , be prepared to buy a few more books and put in a lot more work after you 've done this introductory course .
I favor acting in the following way : If you 've only read one of the versions , cite that one . God knows what 's in the one you have n't read . If you 've read both versions : if they are identical relative to the information you need , publication in a journal or proceedings volume takes precedence over ( re ) publication in a career collection ( e.g. , " Selected works of Jones " ) , which takes precedence over arxiv , which takes precedence over non-arxiv manuscripts . if they are not identical relative to the information you need , cite whichever one contains the best version ( where best probably needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis ) .
You must cite your source every time you use someone else 's intellectual contributions . A review article contributes curation of sources ( among other things ) as its intellectual content . If you use that intellectual content , you must cite the review paper ( in addition to the individual sources ) . Otherwise you are misleading the reader into believing that you 've done all that work ( reading very broadly in the literature , identifying the most relevant and useful sources ) yourself .
Ignoring the journal in question is probably an overreaction . However , the best route to take is the first one -- the author of the copyrighted material is the one that has the most responsibility to assert her rights . Your duty is to notify the person whose work has been infringed upon that the violation has taken place . Once you 've done that , you 've achieved what 's ethically required of you . You are not obligated to take the matter up directly with the journal . ( However , you may do so if you so choose . )
It depends on the department . I have been looking at various applied mathematics departments in the USA and all of them want PhD students to go through the coursework and obtain an MS , even if they already did a masters degree before . I think in general , there is no chance to skip coursework . This is probably because different universities have different standards and syllabuses for the same course . And they want to ensure everyone is up to the same standard and have taken the same syllabus . But do check with the department , there are always exceptions . P.S. However , it does n't have to be a " waste " of two years . The level of the course might be higher and you are probably able to choose different courses to get broader experiences . If all else fails and you are able to ace all the courses with no problem , you can always spend the extra time looking for a thesis adviser or find research collaborators .
Here are the obvious things : Pro : the work in another group will build contacts , possibly improving your opportunities for future academic positions ( PhD , postdoc , assistant professor position ) . Pro : funding opportunities , if you 're in need of extra money . Con : the work done in another group will take up time and energy , and if not related to your current work , wo n't advance your research ( experimenting , publishing , etc. ) . That should probably be your priority ( this is related to the comment on the question about it being strange to get 12-week breaks ... ) Con : if you do n't coordinate it with your supervisor , this could affect the trust in the relationship ( depending on the style of the supervisor ) . If you wish to pursue an academic career , in some universities respectable journal articles published are worth more than contacts when competing for a job . So do n't overestimate the first " pro " I mention above . At the master 's level , this is less important . The best strategy is to coordinate the " outside " work with your supervisor for maximum benefit .
Yes . The literature is full of papers whose primary contribution is using a different method - either something more advanced , or with a different set of assumptions , etc. to analyze a frequently examined question . There 's no reason why that would n't be a perfectly acceptable Masters paper in my mind . However , a couple points to consider for yourself : Why is everyone using the same technique ( if indeed it is everyone ) . Is it really just because it 's the standard analytical framework for looking at this type of question , or is there a stronger reason driving the choice of technique ? " i really can not compare these two methods as they are based on totally different assumption and technique . " I do n't think I 've ever encountered a situation where two methods are utterly incomparable . While they might have different assumptions and techniques , surely they both give answers which can be compared ? Even if they ca n't be compared quantitatively , surely there is a qualitative decision one might make based on the answers that could be compared ( i.e. if I use Method A , X should be done , whereas if I use Method B , Y should be done ... ) ?
Like everybody else is saying : Just Ask . And do it sooner rather later . Telling a university that you have an offer already will signal that other schools ' further along in the process think you 're great . And anyway , you have absolutely nothing to lose by asking . If they want you , they 're not going to think it 's annoying and will be afraid that will lose you to your other offer . If they do n't want you , asking ca n't hurt . If they are on the fence , a signal that you 're admittable will only help .
I think it is not important which option makes your paper look good , but the best question here is " what is the right thing to do ? " If you are such a talented and hardworking undergraduate student who can write a publishable paper , you will certainly have a very bright future in grad school and later as a researcher . So , do n't worry how your first paper is going to be evaluated or cited . Hopefully you will write better papers and you can prove yourself in the future . Regarding publishing research papers , the right thing to do is that you publish your paper as perfect as it is possible for you at the moment , which means it is better you add the solution ( and one more co-author ) to your paper .
end question
start question
How to maximize performance in social science PhD program ?
I too have struggled at times to find this balance . I 'm coming from math and computer science ( rather than social science ) , but I think the field matters less than the type of work . If what you 're trying to do is cognitively intense , then it 's really important to be well-rested and to maintain focus . In grad school , I often would bang my head for hours on problems without much progress . Now if I work for 45 minutes or an hour with little progress , I 'll go for a short walk , get a light snack , do jumping jacks , or play a quick web game ; all of these are ways to reset my focus and attention . Probably the single most useful skill I 've learned is to be more aware of my current state ( energy level , focus , sleepiness , hunger , emotional state ) and try to choose work appropriate for ( doable in ) that state . For more thoughts on this idea , I recommend the advice given by Terry Tao here : <URL>
At least for most graduate programs in pure mathematics in the US , there 's no need to have a specialization in mind when applying . [ This may be very different in other countries . ] It 's valuable to demonstrate in your application that you have studied some serious mathematics , by discussing undergraduate research or advanced coursework . However , there 's no implication that you intend to focus on the same fields in graduate school . It 's common to indicate an interest in a few possible specialties , usually at a level of detail ranging from " algebra " to " analytic number theory " . If you are completely undecided , then that could come across negatively , by suggesting a general lack of enthusiasm . However , being too specific is also problematic . Matching a possible advisor too closely comes across as pandering , while being specific without matching anyone makes it look like you are n't a good fit for this particular department . Overall , the general feeling is that incoming graduate students do n't know enough to make well-informed decisions about specialization , and that anything they say is a little unreliable because their interests may shift as they learn more . From that perspective , it 's not worth worrying about this too much . As for talking with professors , at least at the schools I 'm familiar with this will not increase the chances of admission ( the decisions are made by a committee ) . After you 've been admitted , it 's important to talk with faculty and try to gauge the chances of finding a suitable advisor . However , that can and should wait until February .
One possible thing to watch out for : in some departments , graduate students may work as teaching assistants for graduate courses . You should ask not to be assigned to TA courses which your significant other is taking ( and he or she should do likewise ) , as this would represent a possible conflict of interest . Even if you can grade your SO 's work objectively , there might be a perception of unfairness among other students . Likewise , if any other situation should arise where one of you might be in a position of authority over the other , you 'd need to disclose the conflict of interest and be prepared to resolve it . Otherwise , as Peter Jansson said , relationships between graduate students are very common and are n't likely to cause academic concern . Just stay professional about it ( e.g. do n't make out in the hallways ) .
It is great that you are thinking about networking as a PhD student . My advice would be escalate the relationship by one step . Going from a " nice " conversation at a previous conference ( where no email or contract info was exchanged ) to a social activity outside of a conference is a bit like asking someone you had a coffee with once to go on a trip with you . It escalates the relationship very quickly and could get awkward . Furthermore , many people do n't stay extra days at conference locations so it is likely to be unsuccessful . Less intense ways to connect : Send them an email saying that you noticed they were presenting at the conference , and you are looking forward to seeing their work and chatting again Run into them at the conference ( as Ian_Fin suggested ) and ask what they are doing for dinner or lunch on a conference day
You do n't need any publications to get into a good Ph.D. program . Publications are often slow , and it 's an unexpected bonus for an undergraduate to have publications , not a necessity . What is a necessity is to have strong reference letters attesting to your potential for research , and one of the best ways to get those is to get involved in research . Being involved in research , in turn , will also tend to lead to publications . Thus , you see the correlation . Research and research-related activities that help a person into graduate school also tend to help cause that person to end up with publications . In short : publications are n't the key , they are simply dependent on the same root cause .
There is usually no specific subject requirement for a MBA . However , MBA programs usually require a few years of work experience ( on average candidates have 5 + years ) . Often you will also need to get a good score on the GMAT test . But this is stuff you can study on your own , you do n't necessarily need to take any courses . I would think if you were interested in an MBA then you would probably be pursuing more management related opportunities anyway . But these could certainly be obtained by starting in a software engineering role and working your way up . Obviously you are not going to get a management position fresh out of university , everyone needs to start somewhere . The company you work for may even pay for your management training if they believe you have promise . You can read about the requirements and admissions process at various top MBA schools : <URL> <URL>
In my experience , good primary investigators are always rather unbalanced human beings in one way or another . If you are n't intensively passionate about something closely connected to the research process , then you ca n't last , because so much of leading research involves shaping your own agenda . That said , you can still be doing work in research , even at a Ph.D. level or beyond , without having such independence and drive , but instead being a " super-technician " following somebody else 's agenda and leadership . The scientific ideal holds that every scientist should be of the primary investigator type , and Ph.D. programs are typically designed to select for and cultivate this . That said , in practice it depends a lot on the group that you are in . Some professors expect their students to develop their own research agendas very strongly , others are ( whether they admit it or even realize it ) more looking for good technicians to execute on their grants , and a Ph.D. is more of a byproduct . We do n't really like to admit this as a community , but with the current market structure of academia , we actually need to have the second type of education and people as well . Look at it from the perspective of simple flux balance analysis : the rate of Ph.D. students entering programs is far higher than the rate at which primary investigators retire or die . If every Ph.D. student either ultimately ends up as a primary investigator or a " failure , " then it means most Ph.D. students are failures . But I do n't think that is actually the case : people who are n't hyper-passionate to the point where it distorts their lives can still succeed just fine in a Ph.D. program and at research , they just are likely to take one of the other tracks besides being a professor or other form of PI . That said , even if you do n't end up going the harrowing road of PI-ship , research work is very hard , and there are a lot of easier and/or more financially rewarding ways to make a living . To get a Ph.D. , you need at least enough passion for the subject to find more value in this difficult and low-paid path than in any of your alternatives .
Let me answer this question from the perspective of our school . If a school does things differently the answer you 're quoting might be very appropriate , but not in our case . Our admission decisions are made by our department , and essentially everyone is on the admissions committee - we share the load of evaluating applications . So , there could be great benefit of talking to a professor ahead of time . If one faculty member strongly desires a particular candidate , that student will generally get admitted , assuming they meet our qualifications . ( Note that , as a small school , we have enough capacity to take more students than we do because we do n't get tons of qualified applications . Also , we almost always have TA funding available for qualified students . But this really varies from one university to another . ) So , this establishes that , at some schools , talking to potential advisors ahead of time can be very valuable . The interest of working with a particular advisor can also ( and should ) go into the personal statement . I read so many personal statements that you can tell are completely generic , with different school names copy and pasted in . So , when someone says something specific about my research area , I take notice , and I think other faculty do too . The real issue is that I get so many requests from random students to look at their CV . Many of them have very little connection to my work and are probably mass-emailing professors . This should be avoided . @Anonymous ' answer has the right idea here . A few months ago a student contacted me with a list of publications and a precise statement of interest about my work . We exchanged a few e-mails and I looked at his work . Another student tracked me down after a talk at a conference and talked to me in more detail about the work . These were both appropriate ways to contact me that may benefit the students in the future .
It is not standard in the US , since you are not expected to know enough about the subject to make a good proposal . But if you can make a good proposal , it is helpful to do so . Just be clear in your message that you are flexible , because the PI probably already promised a funding agency that they would work on something particular , and you most likely do not know what was promised .
I really do n't think there is a tried and true solution to this problem , but in the end it boils down to asking : Why does the student want to do a PhD ? Most students that apply with us do n't have a very good sense of what a PhD is , so there really is no " wrong " answer here . However , I consider it a red flag if I get the impression that the student really arrived at the decision to do a PhD via exclusion ( do n't want to do or is scared of " real " work , need some money to pay rent ) . I also am very sceptical of students that do a PhD because they hope for better career opportunities afterwards - my experience is that those students too often end up putting in the minimal hours needed to get the degree . Is the student interested in staying in research , or do they know right from the start that they will go back to industry after finishing ? Similar to before , students that foresee at least the possibility of staying in research tend to be more motivated to go beyond what they perceive as the minimum requirements for getting a PhD . What you do n't want is a student that constantly talks about that one guy many years back that graduated with two weak conference papers , and asks why ( s ) he should be investing all this weekend work into A + papers if that 's apparently not strictly required to graduate . What do they expect from doing research ? Again , most applicants have no very clear idea about research at this point , but the answer to this question can tell you something about what the student values in a job / career . This will allow you to judge how likely it is that they find what they want in your lab , and hence be motivated . For instance , I have found that " I really like to travel to exotic places " is a surprisingly good motivator for students to put in work for this paper to a conference in Hawaii . " I like flexibility " or " I like to work on my own ideas and projects " is also a good motivator for academia , up to a point . However , I tend to remind people that present-day academia , at least in science and engineering , is no ivory tower where people are completely protected from outside pressure and forces . What 's not great is if the student apparently values job security or high salary , because both is typically not available in academia for a long time from the moment you start your PhD . A tricky but important point is also judging how well the student will " fit in " with the current team . It is important here to not end up discriminating based on nationality , age , gender , or marital status , but there is no arguing that being the " odd person out " in an otherwise tightly knitted team will not be great for the motivation of the student . Of course it is your task to manage your team in a way that they will integrate whoever you end up hiring , but at the end of the day you can not force your team to like somebody and/or invite them to private outings etc. .
As was suggested in the comments , if you want to share your thesis with researchers in other countries , it is better to write it in English than in other languages . However , I will go further than that and say that in the 21st century , English is the lingua franca of communication in most technical fields . If you want to participate in the wider technical community in a meaningful way , developing your ability to express yourself in English , both orally and in written form , is essential . Therefore , you should avail yourself of opportunities to work in English whenever practical . It is still important to be able to communicate in your local language , but this is becoming less of an issue as time goes on : for many people , they do scientific work in English , even if their everyday workplace conversations are in another language !
Should I make this medical condition known in my research/personal statement ? I fear the reader might assume that I am not as " able " as completely healthy candidates . Or perhaps there is no benefits at all to bringing this up ? If so , how should I put it to avoid sounding like I am making excuses or whining ? If you can frame this medical condition as a situation you have learned to work through and around , then yes you can talk about it . It makes you sound like you are able to adapt to difficult circumstances . You are under no requirement to bring it up , and , at least in the US , if you do n't bring it up , then you can not legally be judged based on it . However , if the condition reasonably or seriously will interfere with the work you are planning to do , then you need to disclose it eventually , although perhaps only after you are accepted and only to your research adviser . Sleepiness is one thing , but what about <URL> ? A narcoleptic might be a safety hazard in a synthetic chemistry lab for example .
Try looking at speakers from conferences dealing with complex systems , e.g. : <URL> <URL> You can also search for other conferences ( e.g. at <URL> ) and then check the speakers . Furthermore , looking at affiliations from recent ( say - last few years ) papers you like my lead to some good trails . When it comes to webpages being hubs from complex systems , try looking at : <URL> <URL> Some positions ( including doctoral programs ) and other resources are at <URL> . Also , some group websites are in my collections of links ( Delicious : <URL> and <URL> or search at <URL> ) .
I do n't think that there 's a huge enough discrepancy between the technical content of the European three-year bachelor 's and the four-year American bachelor 's to make that a big concern . However , where you may run into problems is that your GPA might not be considered competitive for a top program , if it 's only in the 8.0 's out of 10 . ( It might get translated to a 3.3 or so , which would be problematic . ) What will make up for this is some statement that you 're near the top of your CS cohort , and good letters of recommendation will also help . Where you 'll also need to do some research is on whether the departments you want to apply to offer terminal master 's programs ; if not , it will make it a little more difficult , as the expectation would be that if you are admitted to the master 's program , you will then continue on to the PhD program thereafter . ( At such schools , a stipend is typically offered during the master 's phase of the program ; at schools that offer a terminal master 's , the funding sources for the master 's degree-only candidates is usually quite distinct , if it is available at all . )
Many software engineering programs offer the option of a " capstone " software project instead of a thesis to complete the degree . This is typically a project that stretches over a full semester , or year , or even longer . In my department , these projects are designed in cooperation with local industry , so there are real " customers " . The intention is that the project will force the student to synthesize all the skills and knowledge acquired in other classes in the program , and will give them something closer to real-world experience that a typical class project . As for " how is this different from a Master of Engineering " , I have no idea . Everybody gives their degrees different names ; there is no standard . ( My department offers a capstone project only for undergrads ; the degree is a Bachelor of Science whether you do the project or not . )
Ultimately , the answer depends upon what admissions system a department uses . If you need to obtain admission to a group at the same time as ( or instead of ) the department as a whole , then it is of course absolutely critical that you make contacts ahead of time ! In general , I 'd even start contacting people well before the time of application . However , make sure that your contact is substantial . When it becomes time to apply , you will have a better shot . In many departments , you apply for admission to the department as a whole . After your admission , you select an advisor to work for . In such cases , it 's not really critical for you to have a direct contact within the department , since it 's not necessarily a given that the professor you want to work for sits on the admissions committee . In such cases , you 'll have an indirect connection at best . That said , it 's still a good idea to have a contact in a department during the admissions process . You do n't lose anything by it -- unless the professor has a bad reputation amongst his colleagues ( and then you might not want to work for him or her , anyways ! ) . By the way , I would caution strongly against going to such a school if there 's only one professor at the department you 'd be interested in working for . You 're taking a very large risk under such circumstances . Now to answer some of the other issues raised . Email or other forms of contact . Face-to-face or phone interactions rank above email interactions . There 's no doubt about that . However , an email interaction -- if actually substantial -- can also be viable . However , a quick emil telling someone you 're applying and interested in working for them wo n't really get you anywhere . Number of people to contact . There is of course no limit to the number of potential advisors you can contact . To some extent , they 're competing for you just as much as you 're competing for them ! Can I apply on credentials alone ? At most top departments ( where application is done at the department level ) , I think it 's entirely possible to apply on credentials and recommendations alone . Having the contacts can obviously help , but not having it wo n't ruin your chances for admissions , either .
It varies . As a first year PhD student I was asked to review a theory paper , even though I had almost no background in the field . The professor explicitly said I only had to read the first half of the paper , and I only had to tell him if it looked interesting and correct . At the same time I 'm sure many reviewers do a diligent job and do n't outsource their reviewing to inexperienced graduate students . Related : <URL>
" in-house " program is the term I always use myself and see in other people 's papers . In the corporate context , <URL> defines it as In-house software is a software that is produced by a corporate entity for purpose of using it within the organization . <URL> in an academic context Energy minimization is done with yammp , an in-house molecular mechanics package . <URL> All analyses were done with a battery of in-house codes and external analytical tools . I would n't say " in-house " strictly means " the source code is private " . I have sometimes seen people use " in-house " to mean " code our own research group wrote and uses , but which we also make available as open-source code " . But if I see a sentence in an article like " All analysis was performed using in-house code " , and no reference , then I read it as " We used some code we wrote ourselves which we have n't published anywhere " , which sounds like what you want .
PhD programs are wanting to recruit people who are capable of doing advanced research . Grades are a proxy that people use to try to estimate which members of a population ( almost none of whom have publications ) will be able to acquire the skill set necessary to publish in the future . And , grades are n't a terribly good proxy . Therefore , the best thing you can do to get into a good grad program is going to be to keep publishing , and ideally in the best places possible . If you publish research , then you 'll be able to get letters of reference that talk about your skills as a writer and scientist that should offset any difficulty with your grades . You 'll need to tell some kind of story to tell in your cover letter about why your grades are bad , and how they do n't represent the work you will do in your phd program . ( ideally a letter writer should address this fact too ) . Good luck !
Based on my limited experience , I am not confident that open science practices affect tenure decisions directly , at least at the moment . However , there are many indirect benefits . Making the paper publicly available increases the citations . See this <URL> by Kurtz et al. from 2005 . This <URL> provides a nice summary and critique of this literature . Making the data publicly available increases the citations . See this <URL> by Piwowar , Day , and Fridsma from 2007 . This <URL> provides a nice overview . I am confident based on my own experience that a reproducible workflow is a much more efficient workflow ( e.g. , much easier to pick up and make progress after an invitation to revise and resubmit ) . Efficiency should then lead to higher quality output , higher quantity output , or both . And both quality and quantity contribute positively to tenure and promotion . Further , one important step in encouraging other researchers to use your data is allowing them to easily reproduce the original findings . This step is automatic for reproducible research . I 'm less optimistic about the incentives for pre-registration ( at least in my field of political science ) . In my view , there are still strong incentives to not pre-register studies . The culture is changing , but somewhat slowly . Here 's is a <URL> discussing some of these pros and cons . Indeed , this <URL> from 2013 by Ebrahim et al. titled " Effective Strategies for Increasing Citation Frequency " lists many practices that are also open science practices , such as self-archiving papers , publishing in open-access journals , placing papers in open-access repositories , and making the data publicly available .
end question
start question
What is the best way to solicit teaching feedback from students ( before the class is over ) ?
A method which I learned quite recently is the <URL> . I think it is a great method , as it is quick , and it does not require much effort both on your part and your students . You will need to distribute three small pieces of paper ( e.g. Post-it ) to each student , ask them to label Start , Stop , and Continue , respectively , on the top of each paper , and then ask them to list on each paper , according to the label , what they think you should start doing , stop doing , and continue doing . Ask them to submit their papers before they leave .
I see no reason at all to leave any reasonable skill or ability off of your CV . Play a musical instrument ? Won some medals in a sporting event ? Program an android app ? Have a black belt in a martial art ? Add a section called " Other skills " or " Personal Information " and briefly list these skills . There are two reasons for this . First , it can help a potential employer think of you as a real person , perhaps someone they would like to know . Second , many skills can take years of dedicated practice to master ; if you can master one such skill , then there is a good chance you can master whatever new skills may be required in the new job . Here is an example from my life . Many years ago I programmed a video game ( one of the old " text adventure " style games . I placed this on my CV , not thinking much about it . It turned out that one of the elder faculty conducting the interview had played that game and remembered it fondly . This alone certainly did not " get me the job , " but anything that can smooth the way can be helpful .
I would consider student comments in teaching statements as " standard optional " : they are not required , and probably the majority of teaching statements do not include them , but a substantial minority do and it is certainly quite reasonable to do so . Here are some things to keep in mind : Your teaching statement is your chance to convey your philosophy of teaching and , in so doing , show yourself to be a clear thinker , competent writer and to possess fluency in English ( assuming that you are applying to a job where English is spoken ) . Including too many quotes by other people in a short statement works against this . I am a wordy person , but for me I think a teaching statement should be at least two pages long . If you have a 1.5 page teaching statement and a third of it is quotes , then I worry that you 're using the quotes to evade the short essay you 've been asked to write . Succeeding in an academic job is a lot harder than succeeding in writing a two-page essay , so that does n't inspire my confidence . The positive side of the last comment is that it would be much better not to just include quotes in a pile at the end but rather to use them to illustrate points about your own teaching . Drawing an explicit moral from each quote would not be overdoing it . Including quotes in your own teaching statement is a bit like including quotes on the back of a book saying how good it is . These quotes can be part of a successful sales pitch , but let 's be real : they are cherry-picked . ( If you 're not cherry-picking the very best quotes , you 're losing ground to everyone else who is . In particular , think ten times before including a quote that has the slightest hint of negativity or even measured praise about your teaching . Saying something negative about yourself in application materials is a black belt level sacrifice throw . ) The idea that you fundamentally gain legitimacy from a teaching statement by including the students ' own words is a dubious one to the jaded eye . Most of the eyes reading your application will be highly jaded . Consider feeding the quotes ( especially if you have more than one or two ) to a faculty member who can put them in a teaching letter . It is harder to write good teaching letters than good teaching statements . Along with cold , hard statistics about your teaching ( but be careful about introducing negativity , as above ) , including quotes from students is a good way to personalize the letter . ( Saying that Ms. X is clear , attentive and well-liked by students only fills up so much space , and almost everyone else is saying it too . )
A " prep " is an individual different course you are teaching . If you are teaching 2 different sections of the same course the same semester , that counts as only 1 " prep " but counts twice towards your " teaching load " . Given not-too-large class sizes , teaching 4 courses with only 2 preps might be less work than teaching 3 courses with 3 preps , since presumably you do n't have to prepare twice to teach the same class twice .
Unless the paper is available under a very permissive license , such as <URL> , you will need to seek permission . ( There may be other legal possibilities , such as fair use or fair dealing , but that 's a little subtle . See <URL> for more information on that . ) The copyright owner is the person you need permission from . Who that is will generally be marked on the published paper ( often it is the publisher , and sometimes the author ) . If the publisher holds the copyright , then it is still polite to ask permission from the authors as well , although this is not legally required . Big commercial publishers will often have a department for dealing with this , typically with a name like " Permissions " . If you ca n't find such a department , then you can try just writing to the journal in question ( look at their web page to try to find e-mail addresses ) . If you are lucky , they will quickly approve your use of the figure . If you are not lucky , they will ask for money . And , finally , how does the answer vary for ( a ) those wishing to republish the figure in their own work , There are definitely legal issues here . ( b ) those not wishing to publish the figure e.g. for student coursework . If you never make the work available to the public , then it is hard to imagine that the copyright owner will ever learn about it or complain ( and they would look foolish if they tried to sue someone for using their figure in a homework assignment ) . However , you still have a moral obligation to cite the source of the figure .
Here are another three suggestions to add to Ran G. 's <URL> . The first approach is to solve a simpler version of your problem . If your problem involves some dimension that is infinite , what does the problem look like if that dimension is finite ( or ignored all together ) . This approach worked for my PhD research . The system involving the finite dimension was easier to deal with and the technique developed to get my solution generalised to the infinite case . The second approach is to work through a less general version of the problem . This could involve solving some examples of the more general problem or make more concrete some of the general dimensions . The third approach is to solve a more general version of the problem . These approaches are not guaranteed to work and the results they produce may not be publishable , but they might give you enough insight to move forward .
To directly respond to your first question : yes , " density " is quite common in middle-to-top tier grad programs in math in the U.S. , once one gets beyond the " required/core " courses . There is a lot of backstory for almost all subjects , and faculty want to catch up to somewhere close to current events . It is also common that one 's conception of an incisive , efficient , insightful course is not mirrored accurately in existing textbooks , so one writes notes to match . ( This is better than " in the old days " , pre-TeX , when most often there were no published notes of any kind , not even hand-written , so note-taking in class was critical . ) About " abstract " functional analysis in particular , yes , I think it is fair to say that the style of many of the standard texts ( and of practitioners ) has drifted in a certain direction , including a sort of " density " . The hilarious and not-really-helpful opposite , from an older time , was the Dunford-Schwartz 3-volume extravaganza , which treated nearly every bit of mathematics as though readers would not have heard of it . Determinants , polynomials , etc. . Naturally , this low-density high-volume approach created its own problems , not the least of which was locating the key examples that were not part of " general " mathematics , but specific to the functional-analytic ideas . The subsequent decades ' monographs or texts on " topological vector spaces " have always struck me as peculiarly unhelpful in making connections to other parts of mathematics , though " maybe it 's just me " . I can not keep all the possible adjectives straight , and I do not see the point of many of them , nor are examples clear to me . Again , maybe it 's just my own limited interest , since I care about " functional analysis " for " applications " ( to automorphic forms and related matters ) rather than to itself , or to " applications outside mathematics " . A point that was not clear to me for a long time is that the " more exotic " types of topological vector spaces ( and families thereof , as in Sobolev-space theory ) are not merely " handy " , but essential in making many innocent-seeming discussions legitimate . So , not merely Frechet spaces , but LF-spaces ( strict inductive limits of Frechet ) already appearing as the correct topology on $ C ^ o_c ( \ mathbb R ) $ , for example . The notion of quasi-completeness really is necessary , since LF-spaces are never " complete " ( unless they 're secretly Frechet ) , but are always quasi-complete . And quasi-completeness is enough for many essential things to still work , like the Gelfand-Pettis ( or Bochner ) ideas about vector-valued integrals , and Grothendieck 's results about holomorphic vector-valued functions , and the strong operator topology ( weaker than the Banach-space uniform norm topology on operators on a Hilbert space ) . Holomorphic distribution-valued functions , and so on . ( My on-line functional analysis notes certainly go in such directions . ) In short , examples are critical , both to illustrate adjectives and theorems , and to see the necessity of introducing various seemingly-exotic types of topological vector spaces . At the same time , I think building up a resistance to random counter-example demands is good , much as with point-set topology . Some counter-examples are significant , others are n't . Much time can be killed , not terribly profitably , by trying to illustrate every possible logical distinction . Do n't do it .
As far as I know , NO . In the ACM conferences I have attended , I got one USB stick that has a single html file ( page ) that links to the individual PDFs of the papers of the conference . It is not like a conference with Springer proceedings , that provides a single PDF with the entire proceedings grouped together as a book . So , as far as I know , there is not a official book-PDF with the entire conference papers for an ACM conference . I do not know if this applies to all ACM conferences , though .
It can be advantageous to post your application materials publicly while you are searching for a job ( because it alerts a broader audience to your job search and lets them quickly find out more ) . Once your search is over , I see no career advantage to keeping these materials on the web . I think the main reason to do so is as a service to others . It 's useful for graduate students to see a wide range of research and teaching statements , so that they have a clearer idea of what they typically look like . This if possible only if some people make theirs available . There are also several other reasons someone 's teaching statement may remain available . One is that they forgot to take it down , and another is that they feel it provides students with useful information about their approach to teaching . However , I 'd bet that keeping it online as a public service is the most common reason .
You cite precisely the version that you use and add something like " 5th edition " ( that is what the " edition " - entry is there for in BibTeX ) . Be careful to use the correct year !
If you can write in latex , you should write on it versus word . The latex is specially designed to work with technical documents with a lot of mathematical equations . Also , you can write math equations in word using built-in equation editor of Microsoft word or MathType as a better alternative than built-in ones . See this link for <URL> for equation writing in Word with better configuration . Technically the MathType produces equations with higher equality than Word built-in and I recommend it to use as a macro on Word . About writing in Latex and then revert to Word , it would n't be recommended and will be reduced the quality of equations ( due to reversion complexities and equation editors ' of Word difficulties ) .
It 's usually somewhere in between : the thesis topic is negotiated between the student and advisor . Usually an advisor will have some topics already in mind , and can suggest them . The student can also suggest topics in which he or she is interested , and the advisor can decide if they would be appropriate . In the end , of course , they both have to agree . It could also fall closer to one end of the spectrum or the other , depending on the advising style of the advisor . Some advisors might insist on one of the projects they have in mind , as they may not have the expertise or interest for any of the student 's suggested topics . Or they might think the student 's suggestions would be too easy , too hard , too obscure , etc. . Other advisors may not have many topic ideas of their own , or consider that it is good experience for a student to find their own topic .
This answer might not be applicable to everyone ; however , today I met with the Associate Director of Professional Programs at [ tier-one university ] . I was informed that barring extenuating circumstances , if a student does n't have an accepted proposal and a Thesis Director assigned after a year then they should switch over to the capstone track to ensure they are able to successfully finish their degree .
I went to graduate school in mathematics at a university with a TA union . I think the main effect was to level off graduate student compensation across disciplines -- so , the union was apparently a great boon to those in the humanities , but I heard that compensation for math TA 's would likely be higher if not for the union . Another benefit to the union was that it instilled ( for many ) a sense of camaraderie and common cause . Union events were fun , and they served beer . It was a good way to get to know your fellow graduate students . The main disadvantage was that dues had to be paid , around $ 200 a year ( most of which went straight to the AFT ) . This is not a lot , but on our salary it did mean something . Dues were mandatory , even if you opted out of the union -- although state politicians have since seen to it that this is no longer true . Another potential disadvantage is that union dues went ( in part ) to political contributions to union-friendly politicians . I did n't mind , but this tended to alienate graduate students who were more politically conservative than me . There was occasional heated rhetoric when I was there , and even more after I left , but overall the union did n't seem to do much good or harm . Mostly , I remember the beer .
With regard to : I did research in a number of different field ( ... ) finding out I 'm not super talented , but I learn fast and I have some intellectual stamina . I will try to focus on " talent " and " stamina " , two self-evaluation criteria you mention which have not been directly addressed in the comments so far . You set up a contrast between stamina ( which I interpret as a combination of curiosity and persistence ) and talent ( which I interpret as the ability to do more original/creative work with less apparent difficulty ) . You also mention several specific disciplinary sub-fields of research : xrays , etc. . I wonder if your perception of your " talent " might be more a consequence of the switching you have done between different areas of research , rather than your innate capacity for original research in one or more of these fields . Research in learning and expertise development suggests that it takes about 10 years of concentrated work in a particular discipline ( whether it is chess , car racing , or an academic field ) to develop expertise . Once developed , such expertise may be mistaken for talent by a less-trained eye . Your words suggest a judgment formed by comparing yourself to others . If these others happened to be more experienced in a given area of research , then the difference in " time on task " may partly account for your perception of lesser capacity for original research in some ways . A couple points seem worth making : You probably do want to eventually identify , develop , and apply your talent in some field . Whether it is CS or Physics or something else , it has to be something you should be willing to apply yourself to for an extended period of time . As you decide on your post-PhD path , consider the disciplinary area that you think could hold your intellectually engaged for a while . If your interest in research is such that CS is a means to answering questions in other fields , then CS is a means rather than an end for you . This will take you down one particular career trajectory . However , if your interest is in questions in CS proper , this might imply a different trajectory ( e.g. a research scientist/programmer in a physics lab , vs. a research scientist in a research center that focuses on computational questions like algorithms , etc ( sorry , CS is not my area ) . Finally , saying that you " like doing research " is a starting point for some deeper reflection . Think about HOW you like to do " research " - stated differently , what are the characteristics of a research project that make it exciting and fulfilling to you . A big part of this has to do with the level of " agency " you are comfortable with . Some people find satisfaction in carefully nurturing their own research agendas . They do this by working in a very specific niche for a very long time , spearheading ( as a PI ) their own grants and building partnerships and communities around a specific theory and/or methodology . Others are less comfortable leading , and prefer following -- rather than agonize over what grant to apply for , they are happy supporting on-going work , where the decisions about the direction of inquiry have mostly been made for them . While both kinds of people may ( justifiably ) consider themselves " researchers , " the differences in approach can lead to very different career trajectories in terms of the role one is shooting for and the kind of institution ( size , mission , etc. ) that is compatible with each of these roles/goals . Good luck !
The major quantifiable predictor of success in research is ... success in research . People who have done research successfully in the past are more likely than not to continue to do so . For students that have not done research in the past , the best predictor I have seen for success ( whatever that may be ) is expressed in a quote from The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research , by Marian Petre &amp; Gordon Rugg : A willingness to learn for themselves and good judgement about when to stop and ask for feedback . * It 's not exactly quantifiable , but you can get a sense for it in an interview . ( Of course , this quality can be learned , so a lack of it does n't necessarily predict an inability to succeed at research . ) * I took this quote completely out of context ; the authors there are actually discussing the role of the PhD advisor , and they mention this quality in reference to a student " who can be pretty much left to get on with it , with supervisory meetings being something that both parties enjoy , and where each party learns from the other . "
If there 's no template , then the choice is yours . However , you should make sure to pick a font that 's easy to read . The usual standards in academia tend to be the Times , Helvetica/Arial , and Computer Modern families . This does n't restrict you from using fonts like Book Antiqua , Myriad Pro , Goudy Old Style , or Garamond , but they 're definitely not standard .
In the American system , this is called " auditing " a course . Auditing means that you are attending the class but are technically only listening ( auditing = > auditory = > listening ) to the material and not sitting for exams or handing in homework assignments . You can audit a course formally ( which often means that this is listed on your transcript ) or informally in which you just sit in on the lectures/discussions . For the former/formal , see your local university guidelines . This answer deals with the latter . Permission of the instructor in all but the larger lectures is always a good idea unless your university has an open classroom policy ( as with many European universities ) . The instructor may have different rules . For example : In larger lectures , I do not mind auditors ( of any ilk ) in lecture but they may not attend discussion sections since those are for the paying students . I allow graduate students to audit my graduate seminars but with three rules : a ) They must attend all of the sessions ; b ) they must do all of the readings ; c ) they must not be a ' dead body ' but must participate in the seminar discussion . Note that the university itself may have rules on auditing which the faculty member may ignore ( for example , I do not mind if local community residents audit my lectures even if they are not registered as auditors through the university ) . This is different from PASS/FAIL ( also known as CREDIT/D/FAIL ) which is another alternative in which you take the class but are allowed a lower level of participation .
I came across the following study : T McElroy , L Mosteller The influence of circadian type , time of day and class difficulty on students ' grades . <URL> In the conclusions of the work , they mention that the students have a best performance if their optimal time-of-day ( i.e. , if they are monrningness type or eveniningness type ) coincide with the class schedule . By contrast the classes that require less cognitive functioning are less sensitive to the advantage and disadvantage of optimal and non-optimal time-of-day .
High-tech engineering companies , for one . A friend of mine works at a small system-on-a-chip designer company , and they supply highly specialized chip designs to other businesses which utilize embedded systems -- think leading automotive , aerospace , consumer electronics OEMs . The company is small and every engineering employee has at least a MSc , most of them have PhDs or higher ( that would be associate professors and professors ) . Another example is automotive R&amp;D -- mechanical engineering . Companies are financing new development of new methodologies in product development -- particularly structural optimization , design automation , manufacturing process simulations . Virtual prototyping is the name of the game for top manufacturers currently , and the demand for highly-skilled experts is great , even in these uncertain economic times . In the country where I study , PhD projects are financed jointly by interested private companies as well as research organizations , and the companies have a vested interest to receive not only the direct results from the research , but also trained individuals that can integrate the research outcomes into their product development or manufacturing process . Obviously YMMV by country and research field . PhDs in in mostly theoretical projects might have harder time finding a good position after graduating , while hands-on graduates whose projects were conducted in collaboration with industrial partners are much more likely to secure a senior technical position even before their dissertation .
end question
start question
Is a paper that takes existing techniques to solve a practical and more specific problem valuable enough to get published ?
In my opinion , yes . You paper will prove that those techniques are useful and usable by using them to solve a practical problem . I consider it a contribution to human kind , thus valuable to get published . Whether or not it will be accepted by journal/conference is another issue . You should try . Please send it to be peer-reviewed .
No . Why rob yourself of potential opportunities ? Your chances of admission might be less than if you had a publication , but they 're certainly bigger than if you do n't apply at all . If you are n't admitted anywhere , you can always apply again next year , after your thesis is done .
Yes . The literature is full of papers whose primary contribution is using a different method - either something more advanced , or with a different set of assumptions , etc. to analyze a frequently examined question . There 's no reason why that would n't be a perfectly acceptable Masters paper in my mind . However , a couple points to consider for yourself : Why is everyone using the same technique ( if indeed it is everyone ) . Is it really just because it 's the standard analytical framework for looking at this type of question , or is there a stronger reason driving the choice of technique ? " i really can not compare these two methods as they are based on totally different assumption and technique . " I do n't think I 've ever encountered a situation where two methods are utterly incomparable . While they might have different assumptions and techniques , surely they both give answers which can be compared ? Even if they ca n't be compared quantitatively , surely there is a qualitative decision one might make based on the answers that could be compared ( i.e. if I use Method A , X should be done , whereas if I use Method B , Y should be done ... ) ?
Supplemental material should generally be organized and referred to just as tightly as the main material : you should think of it as one big document which just happens to be divided into two files . As such , you should provide explicit , well-localized references to each element you refer to in the supplemental , just like you would in the main text , e.g. , " Supplementary Figure 3 " , " Supplementary Section 6 . " Note also that if you adopt this sort of tight " one document " formatting , you are not necessarily using any more words than " See Supplementary Material " . Some examples of articles using this format : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , you can . From <URL> : Can an author post his IEEE copyrighted paper on his personal or institutions ' servers ? Yes . An author is permitted to post his IEEE copyrighted paper on his personal site and his institution 's server , but only the accepted version of his paper , not the published version as might be downloaded from IEEE Xplore . Directly from their more recently updated paper policy ( <URL> ) : The policy reaffirms the principle that authors are free to post the accepted version of their article on their personal Web sites or those of their employers . Posting of the final , published PDF continues to be prohibited , except for open access articles , whose authors may freely post the final version .
I find that a good way ( for me ) to get excited about my research is to work with some inexperienced research students - high school and undergraduate students . Mentoring these students reminds me of the things that excited me about research when I first started : mainly , that we can come up with some problem that we think is interesting , that has n't previously been solved , and then go ahead and solve it . I still think that is so cool , and seeing that reaction in my students reminds me all over again :) Also , I get to feel like an expert in this scenario , which helps makes me more excited about my work . Generally , I find that spending time with others who are passionate and excited encourages those feelings in me , too .
At least for most graduate programs in pure mathematics in the US , there 's no need to have a specialization in mind when applying . [ This may be very different in other countries . ] It 's valuable to demonstrate in your application that you have studied some serious mathematics , by discussing undergraduate research or advanced coursework . However , there 's no implication that you intend to focus on the same fields in graduate school . It 's common to indicate an interest in a few possible specialties , usually at a level of detail ranging from " algebra " to " analytic number theory " . If you are completely undecided , then that could come across negatively , by suggesting a general lack of enthusiasm . However , being too specific is also problematic . Matching a possible advisor too closely comes across as pandering , while being specific without matching anyone makes it look like you are n't a good fit for this particular department . Overall , the general feeling is that incoming graduate students do n't know enough to make well-informed decisions about specialization , and that anything they say is a little unreliable because their interests may shift as they learn more . From that perspective , it 's not worth worrying about this too much . As for talking with professors , at least at the schools I 'm familiar with this will not increase the chances of admission ( the decisions are made by a committee ) . After you 've been admitted , it 's important to talk with faculty and try to gauge the chances of finding a suitable advisor . However , that can and should wait until February .
Actually for both of them some courses are fully autonomous " anytime " courses , while others are restricted to being offered at particular times . So far as I can tell , the time-restricted courses derive two benefits from being time-restricted : It creates a " cohort " of students learning similar things and doing similar assignments at the same time , who can then help one another in the associated forums . Resources needed to support the course ( e.g. , TA monitoring , course material updates ) can track the progress of the students through the course , increasing the return on resources and minimizing disruption to students .
If I understand the question correctly , the dilemma is whether to just distribute the code or whether to also make a scientific publication out of it . The way that I typically think about this type of problem is to see whether it passes any of the following tests : Does the improvement enable a significant scientific or technical work that was not previously possible ? For example , if faster simulation allows a control loop to be done in realtime that could n't before , that advance may be scientifically valuable even if the methods are not interesting in and of themselves , but you have to demonstrate that value . Does the improvement make a qualitative change in the operation of the algorithm which is interesting , e.g. , changing a scaling property that was previously a limit ? Is the mechanism of the improvement interesting in and of itself , e.g. , such that it teaching something about the nature of the algorithm or such that it might be applied to other algorithms or problems as well ? Any of these is a good reason to publish an improvement on an algorithm .
The situation I 've seen most often is that a professor will hold a primary appointment at school A , where they have a lab and complete their research . Often for reasons related to collaboration , school B will then give the professor an appointment in a related if not identical department . If the professor also teaches a few courses at school C , they will likely be granted an adjunct position there as well . This was my setup when I was in graduate school ; I was a grad student in bioengineering at <URL> , and I had a secondary appointment at <URL> due to both lab collaborations and my being registered in a <URL> there .
I think you are thinking more of a tutorial than a research object . You may be interested on <URL> . Research is about obtaining some new knowledge . This knowledge can be simply a compilation of some things that are already done and existing but were never put together to compare them ( a survey ) for instance . IMHO survey papers get a good number of citations because they are in fact quite useful . There are a number of things to do research in that field , for instance you could put something new in that small debugger ( beyond the state of the art ) or try a set of different things in that small debugger to compare them and obtain that comparative knowledge ( being new ) or do a survey of the debuggers that exist , or evaluate them wrt something new ( e.g. usability ) find open questions in the field of debuggers , define a problem that was not being considered before Basically it boils down to finding and defining a problem ( which is open in the state of the art ( SOA ) ) finding or creating solutions ( and adding them to the SOA ) evaluating and comparing solutions ( in the SOA to know better how is it ) I 'd say all of them are quite pragmatical , focusing on solutions . The point is to solve something new ( it 's quite pointless solving something that is already solved , right ? ) . evaluate properly ( so that we can understand why is it a solution and what properties does it have , when is it useful and when may not be so useful ) . finding problems ( because the first step to solve a problem is identifying it ) Depending on the approach taken then the research and the paper will look in different ways but basically you need : an introduction an explanation of the background that may be required to understand everything else ( this is optional ) a description of the state of the art , what is out there that is relevant for the proposal the proposal ( for definition , solution or evaluation of the problem at hand ) the results obtained with that proposal the conclusions obtained from the results acknowledgements PS : If that fails you can simply forget about the state of the art and do research on this as if it was new , without checking properly the literature on the topic before . If you apply the methods correctly and do a good work that could be ok in some contexts ( I 'm not sure about the context of this question , though ) . This would not be very practical , because most probably someone did that already decades ago .
I strongly dispute your assertion that knowledge of the more general subject is not needed for the more specific subjects . To use your own example , general biology will include general cell anatomy and metabolism and probably some basics of evolution . More specialized courses like anatomy and endocrinology will make no sense without these basics . Even when a direct subject material connection is not obvious , in a well-designed set of courses there is often an important dependence in skills . For example , in the mathematics classes that I took , there was not much direct connection in material between Analysis and some the higher-level subjects like Abstract Algebra and Topology that had it as a required prerequisite . However , Analysis was the subject where students were expected to learn how to properly approach and formulate mathematical proofs , and the higher-level subjects assumed these skills . Likewise , many engineering departments have a required " general engineering " subject for freshmen , which drums in the general philosophy of engineering through hands-on applications in various areas : even if an electrical engineer never uses a machine-shop again , the " engineering way of thinking " that they have learned will be critical to their success later on . Returning , then , to your basic question : there 's an awful lot of knowledge in the world , and much of it simply is very specialized . General classes give the foundation required by many different specialized subjects , and so a well-designed curriculum tends to naturally form a " tree " structure that starts general and becomes more specialized as one progresses deeper into a subject .
1 ) Find a school you want to apply to . 2 ) Email the graduate admissions contact person in the department . 3 ) In that email , ask politely . 4 ) Say thank you .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
It 's definitely OK to name one or a few journals you would consider more appropriate for this paper . Some web interfaces for reviewers even have that as a built-in option . One thing I encourage you to do is to use the journal 's publication criteria to back up your opinion . These may have been given to you along with the paper , or they can be found on the journal 's website . If , for example , the journal X 's guidelines say : Articles should be of high scientific quality , originality , significance , and conceptual novelty that are of interest to the wide and diverse contemporary readership of X then it 's good practice , in your recommendation to the editor , to evaluate the manuscript following these criteria . For example , you could say : The manuscript is technically and methodologically sound , and clearly written . The conclusions are , in large part ( minor exceptions noted below ) , supported by the results . However , it seems to me that this detailed study of knee injuries sustained in wingsuit accidents may not be of interest to many of the reader of The International Journal of Transportation Research .
Possibly Yes If you are using an <URL> , then any unique or interesting results that you find would be candidate material for an article . If you are writing your own CFD code , then you must validate/verify it before you publish your code 's results . [ In code validation , ] The overall objective is to demonstrate the accuracy of CFD codes so that they may be used with confidence for aerodynamic simulation and that the results be considered credible for decision making in design . ... Credibility is obtained by demonstrating acceptable levels of uncertainty and error . A discussion of the uncertainties and errors in CFD simulations is provided on the page entitled Uncertainty and Error in CFD Simulations . The levels of uncertainties and errors are determined through verification assessment and validation assessment . There are several methods of validation but the two widely accepted methods are : Simulate a configuration that you can test , then test that configuration . If your code 's results matches the test results , that 's generally considered a good validation . Simulate a configuration that you can model with an already validated CFD code . If their results agree , that 's also considered a good validation . Of course you still need to perform a grid sizing analysis and other tests to ensure/prove you 're using your code correctly .
You do not a have a leg to stand on , legally , morally or otherwise . The thing you should actually indict them for is not responding to your emails . That is rude ; I think you should probably accept that as an implicit rejection . If they were still thinking of admitting you they would have checked on your status by this point . The issue with your argument is that it does n't actually follow the text of the resolution . The binding part of resolution you cited says " Students are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15 . " So , schools have agreed not to withdraw an offer because you have n't accepted it before April 15th , and not to try to hold you to an offer you 've accepted if you change your mind before April 15th . The school in question has held to their end of the bargain perfectly , since they never made you an offer . The resolution says nothing about the school having to make a decision before April 15th . Of course , schools are well aware that it will be much harder to get people after April 15th , so they make an effort to make offers earlier . However , this is not a deal , this is the department acting in their own self-interest . Unfortunately , there 's too much uncertainty in the process to guarantee you 'll make all offers before April 15th . After all , you have some plan for what your incoming class will be , you make offers to many more people than that , and you hope that you guessed the yield correctly . If the people who 've already been offered admission are waiting until April 15th to make up their minds , you 're then left with a great deal of uncertainty as the deadline approaches , since it will be a big problem if your incoming class is such bigger or much smaller than you planned . Thus , there often are people who you are not sure you want to reject , but not sure you have the money to fund . In my department , we still have a number of people waitlisted , since we have n't filled our class yet . Usually , such people will be formally notified they are on a waitlist ; I think again , that 's in the department 's self-interest and helps clarify things for the student . So , again , it 's likely this is an implicit rejection , which for whatever reason they have n't bothered to formalize .
In principle this is possible , however , when using data collected by somebody else you have to take great care not to produce bad science . Data collection is usualy performed with a certain specific application in mind , and when collecting data you have to make sure that the errors introduced in the collection process do not influence the final result in a way that is important for your purpose . If you use the same data for some other purpose your results will likely be affected by some bias . So if you want to corelate oil prices with GDP growth , you are fine , but with more complex questions you are in real danger .
If I have an original idea to propose a new model , what should I do then : A patent or good rank ISI paper ? It depends on your objectives . If you want to make money from your model : Get a patent . If you want to earn academic reputation : Publish a paper . In many cases , it 's actually possible to do both - assuming your " model " can be patented at all . However , note that patent fees can be quite expensive , and it is usually only worth paying if you really aim to make money from it . The academic reputation gain from a patent is mostly marginal .
When I read this question , I immediately thought of <URL> In it , Peter Norvig , who taught a huge online course on AI , shares what he learned about teaching to a large virtual audience . His main points : Mimic a one-on-one teaching style by positioning the camera overhead as you write and speaking as if it is a single student . Alternately , use a livescribe pen ( I 've had experience with this for a math class ; loved it ) Make short , < 10 minute videos to retain attention Ask questions to check understanding ( they will pause + answer ) and then go over them Have due dates for watching the videos ; students need motivation to watch them in a timely manner Encourage online forums because peers are great tutors they " remember what it 's like to not understand "
end question
start question
Is it possible to obtain a PhD in Canada without having to attend courses for a master degree ?
Canada is different from the USA , in that direct entry for a PhD after a bachelors degree is rare . The typical path is a bachelors , followed by two year masters , followed by four to five years for a PhD . As far as I know , no typical Canadian PhD program also grants a masters , as in Canada , it 's sort of implied that you already had one going into the PhD . This is of course , based on my understanding of the sciences : Humanities and Engineering may vary . EDIT : One note about courses : Course requirements vary dramatically from program to program , university to university . Some will require relatively few courses , others , many more .
As Dave mentioned , what you want to do will be very challenging . One possibility would be to change to a different university that offers the math classes you mentioned . However , I will assume that switching schools is not an option for you . If you are very dedicated to this goal , here is one possible route . finish your current studies in CSE get a job in a town with a university that offers the math classes you desire start taking one class each semester as a non-degree student . I do n't know about policies elsewhere , but many school in the United States have less strict admission requirements for non-degree students . Your goals for these classes should be two-fold . ( 1 ) Learn the material as well as you can . Your understanding of this material will be important for both getting into and succeeding in graduate school . ( 2 ) Impress your professors with both your ability and your desire . When you eventually apply to a masters program , you will ask some of these professors for letters of recommendation . apply to a masters program in mathematics . Ask for letters of recommendation from both your current professors in your CSE program and from those who know you from the math classes you take after you finish your BS . as you near the finish of your masters ( where you have worked hard to prove yourself ) apply to PhD programs I know this is a long-term plan , but with hard work and dedication you could make it work . Here is another question <URL> that you may find to be helpful .
Disclaimer : the following is my practical experience on research . I have no idea about the opinions of admissions committees and the like , but it probably depends greatly on the country and the relative quality of master 's and undergrad education . I am a theoretical physicist by formation ( 5 years degree ) . Then I did my master 's thesis ( I had taken enough courses ) in Bioinformatics , and I am doing a PhD in Biophysics . When I start a new project ( or tackle the next sub-project ) , there are a bunch of things about Biology and Chemistry that I do n't know , but most of them are actually quite easy . I am sometimes lacking " the bigger picture " , being able to my questions into a broader meaning , but that is not so important . For example , my master 's project was to improve the number of identified peptides in an experiment using computational techniques , and that is a very clear goal . What to do with this improved results ? Obviously , we can improve the things we already do . But , are there biological questions it can help answer ? I am not sure , but there are experts on that . For the middle picture range , I rely on my advisors . They are also physicists , but they have learned along the way pretty much what they need . And after just a few months , I was surprised of how much I was able to help the new members of the lab . Actually , I believe taking another undergrad degree would not help so much . Of course , I would be faster at the beginning , because I would know what things like " the $ C _ \ alpha $ residuals " mean , but the actual meat of the project , where we spend months , is probably not covered ( or not covered in enough detail ) in most undergrad degrees . And the main reason is that these details are known only to those who have actually worked hands on with it . Let me give you an example : in Physics we talk about spectra all the time , and all the information you can extract from it , with perhaps , the only limitation is the noise of your instrument . The truth is , unless you have a VERY expensive camera , you are going to find very funny stuff , like two spectra taken right after the other , with exactly the same experimental set up , will not have , on camera , the same intensity ; and even the profile of the line . To compensate for this you need to get clever , and it very much depends on the details , so it is very difficult to teach unless your lecturer is an expert in spectra analysis and can tell you how they do it . And still , most people can just rely on the spectra pre-processed by the experts , so they do n't need to know this . Unless , of course , you want to work with raw spectra yourself ( been there ) . Lastly , a master 's or a PhD has some courses . They are usually quite specialised , targeted for your level and background , and can bring you up to speed in the things you need to know about your field quite nicely . And to add some peace of mind , my former lab hired a postdoc coming from computer vision . His biological knowledge had quite big holes , but nevertheless , in a couple of weeks he was already doing amazing stuff with very good ideas . Bottomline , go for the advanced studies . You can always take Biology or Economy on the side ( for example Open University or unofficially at Coursera ) .
Each situation is different , and it might be hard to generalise , but roughly speaking , you can see a PhD thesis as requiring about 3-4 years working full time . For some people it might be a bit less , for others a bit more , but that 's a good average . In addition , a PhD includes of course " technical " work , but also " academic training " , such as learning how to write a paper/thesis , presenting papers at conferences , supervising students , etc. . Now , two cases are possible : either you already have some technical material from past work ( e.g. , you 've been working 20 years in industry ) , in which case you have already completed some of the 3-4 years , and you mostly need to focus on how to output your work ; or you do n't , in which case , you still need to complete all of the work . I 've known some people in the first case , and they managed to do a PhD while working full-time . They would usually come in half a day per week ( in agreement with their company ) , and work at home in the evening . In the second case , it seems unrealistic to do both a full time job and a full time PhD . In some fields , you might be able to do a PhD over 7 , 8 or even more years ( I 've heard about someone in history who wrote his PhD in 7 years , while working full time as a school teacher in the mean time ) , but it might not be the case everywhere . In addition to Daniel 's answer , and including Sylvain 's comment , I 'd add that some French universities forbid starting a PhD without having some source of income , either through some funding or through a full-time job . Most funding forbid to have a full time job on the side , and if your full-time job is completely unrelated to your PhD topic , then you might have the green light from the administration , but not from the academic institution in charge of the PhD programs . EDIT : I somehow forgot to mention that the indicated amount time in my answer concerns good PhD , and by good , I mean a PhD that will allow you to get a job in academia afterwards , which mean not only getting the degree , but also getting good publications , good collaborations , good reference letters , etc. . If you only care about the title , then you might find some universities happy to make you pay tuition fees to deliver you a diploma after a few years . If you want to go to academia later , then you need to be a junior researcher for a few years , in order to demonstrate that you might be worth hiring as a confirmed researched , and then later as a senior researcher .
Short answer : okay , and a quite good idea , for the reasons and with few limits , see below . in academia one should never submit the same paper to two journals If only noone had done that ... So I suppose that you have a journal paper under review ( your title ) . And the workshop asks for a contribution . I doubt you will directly send the paper under review to the workshop committee . So you will write something " else " for the workshop , possibly a shortened version . Recently , I read a chronic in IEEE Information Theory Society Newsletter ( see below for the full quote ) . In the 1950s , apparently , you could present a paper to the associated workshop/conference ( only ) when it was accepted or published before in the journal . This has the advantage the audience could read the paper in detail before the talk , and allow nicer discussions . Recently , some IEEE conferences ( ICASSP , ICIP , GlobalSIP ) have begun the accept " submissions " , after the official deadlines , from papers already accepted in <URL> ( which has the same 5-page same format as the conference ) . The paper , once accepted , is presented at the conference , but it is not in the abstract book : of course , it is already " being published " by the journal . These examples show that limiting the clutter of unfinished works , submitted too early and several times at conferences , was and still is possible . Indeed , if one writes a conference paper , after presenting it , it is sometimes difficult to find the energy to write the full paper . So this sounds perfectly fine to me . The main thing to care about is ownership : as the preprint ( submitted ) is still yours , and as long as it does not infringe the workshop rules . I believe though it is honest , and useful , to mention in your workshop absract , that the extended version of the work is " under submission " , " under revision " in a journal ( you can mention the name or not ) , or accepted with the date of acceptance . <URL> ( <URL> ) , in the The Historian 's Column : It is worth noting in Fano 's letter that the number of sessions was six ( 6 ! ) and all of them were in series . Each paper was presented for about 20 minutes with 10 minutes left for discussion which was invariably lively and had to be stopped by the chair person to make sure that the schedule was kept in time . But consider this : The papers were FIRST published in the Transactions and THEN they were presented at the Symposium !! That is a total reversal of what we do today . The distinct advantage of this arrangement was that the audience had the benefit of studying the papers carefully ahead of time , which enabled an in-depth discussion after the presentation . Not a bad idea !
The easiest way to tell if fall grades will be taken into account is to look at the application instructions . If you see instructions asking you to provide your mid-year grades , then that 's a pretty clear indication that they will be taken into account during the admissions process . If you are not asked to submit it , then follow that guideline . If it 's optional for whatever reason , I would assume that you should plan as if it were a mandatory submission .
In my experience , most undergraduates , even excellent ones with strong research potential , do not publish . The reason is simple : undergraduates usually have to spend a lot of time on classes and do n't have much time available for research , even if they 're very good at it . The likelihood of both producing a significant publishable result and seeing it in print before applying to grad school is simply not very large . Even if you do get a publication , it 's not obvious whether it 's due to your research talent or due to your supervisor placing you on exactly the right project . That said , getting involved in research as an undergraduate is the best thing that you can do if you have interest in graduate school . Not only will it put you in a position where a professor can give you a good recommendation for your research work , but it will also help you figure out if you actually want to subject yourself to the grueling realities of a Ph.D. program . And who knows , you might even get some publications !
if you are in Japan , there are many people that go to Guam to take the CPA . Essentially anybody can do it , but if you graduate from an American University , there are some modules that you do not need to take , pretty much like the Japanese CPA .
The degree you 're looking for ( at least in the sciences ) is called " Doctor of Science " and you can read all about it on Wikipedia : <URL> Edit : As aeismail noted : Sometimes this degree is considered equivalent to a PhD and sometimes it 's considered beyond a PhD . This distinction typically varies by country ( all this is listed on the Wikipedia page ) .
Publishing In mathematics , most people will judge your research on its merits , not based on your credentials or affiliations . So this is not an issue , if you are able to generate significant results and write them up in a clear way . Seminars I have seen many members of the public regularly attend seminars . I 've never heard of them being kicked out . It 's not an issue . Funding The primary drawback is that you wo n't be paid for your research if you are just doing it in your spare time . Unless you are already independently wealthy , that means you will have relatively little time for research since you need a day job . It is of course possible to get grants to fund your research without being in academia ; there are a number of private entities in the US funded entirely by grants , and many of them include mathematicians . But you said spare time only . Collaboration Another drawback is that you wo n't be in close contact with other researchers by default . It would n't be impossible to establish that contact , but again you must consider whether you will have the time . And people wo n't take you seriously unless you have serious results . Not getting a PhD In mathematics , even more than in other fields , it is almost impossible to make a contribution without spending several years learning what is already known . In principle you could do that without getting a PhD , but why would you ?
It is common for graduates to jump between communications , electronics , computer science domains . But it is usually not so for something like genetic engineering even though it is considered an interdisciplinary field . Institutions might expect graduation from either of biotechnology , molecular biology , microbiology or biochemistry . This would however be different for fields such as genomics and bioinformatics where institutions do accept CS graduates provided they have a background in areas like data analytics , machine learning , data mining , data science and the like . As this would depend on the eligibility and preference criteria of the institution concerned , it would be better for your to consult with the prospective institution that would offer the program desired .
In mathematics , some graduate degrees are offered online , but you should be careful . There are real advantages to doing it in person , and most of the schools offering online degrees are not well respected , so if you select a program based on internet advertising , you will probably waste your money without learning very much or ending up with a valuable credential . ( It 's depressing how many businesspeople view distance education as just a money making opportunity , without any serious commitment to doing a good job . When you investigate online education , please keep in mind that many web sites are trying to sell you something of questionable value . ) One respectable example is the University of Washington , which offers an online M.S. in applied mathematics , and there are some others like this . They could be viable options if attending in person is impossible . I do not know of any well respected math graduate program from a 100 % distance education university in the US , so you should be very suspicious of such programs , although perhaps they exist in other countries ( Open University ? ) . There is no worthwhile online Ph.D. program in mathematics . If your only goal is to get the degree itself , for example to move up in a salary scale for a job you already have , then it might be possible , but you would have to look carefully to make sure the program is accredited , and even so it wo n't be an impressive addition to your CV . If you are hoping for a career in academia or industrial research , do n't even think about an online Ph.D. . If an institution offers an online Ph.D. in mathematics , and presents it as being just as good and respected as a traditional Ph.D. , then you should be extremely suspicious of the entire institution . As for computer science , I do n't know as much about online master 's programs , but the issues are similar and I imagine the conclusions are as well . The online Ph.D. situation is definitely the same as in math .
<URL> claims to be what you 're looking for : a statistics aggregator . However , I do n't think there 's a general well-defined methods to get any statistics . The way I usually proceed is that I attempt to find as many statistics as possible from multiple sources , I eliminate the ones that are too old / really inconsistent with the others / describe a shaky methodology for data collection , and I present all the remaining statistics . So instead of having one reference for a peer-reviewed document , I get 3 or 4 concurring non-peer-reviewed documents . EDIT : one other important aspect is how ' fresh ' the data you use is . First-hand accounts from Microsoft about Windows apps are arguably trustworthy . Second-hand accounts that do n't indulge too much in interpretation and who publish rigorous documents ( the difference between Financial Times and BuzzFeed ) can be used , too , ideally having multiple sources . For any other source or things that are more than second-hand , you want a large consensus over multiple sources .
It would depend on the jurisdiction . In the US , you have a property right to the degree that you earn and pay for ( regardless of the ultimate source of funding -- the student has the responsibility to pay ) , and as long as you do n't violate the conditions for obtaining the degree ( various forms of dishonesty in admissions and satisfaction of the degree ) , improper actions after the fact do n't license depriving a person of what they have earned . In Europe , the legal basis may be different . Whereas in much of Europe state law governs revocation , in the US revocation is governed by university rules . In the case of Dutch psychologist Diederik Stapel , the thesis data had been destroyed so it was impossible to prove fraud in the thesis , and also impossible to disprove it ( Stapel short-circuited the university 's proceedings by returning his degree ) . It appears that there are , in The Netherlands and possibly other European nations , vows that you must take in order to receive the degree , to act honorably ( defined locally ) . " Not committing fraud in the future " is a likely candidate for such a vow .
<URL> may be an option . Its openings are quite heterogeneous ( sciences and humanities ) . Despite the name , it is not restricted to European countries . There are other free scholarship aggregators like <URL> . If you search academia.stackexchange you may be able to find <URL> . Also , you may be able to find <URL> channels associated to your area . At least in computer science it is not uncommon to see such openings posted there . Another option is trying to locate a <URL> where other labs in your field post their openings .
I do n't think a Quantitative Finance program would be ideal preparation , given your undergraduate degree in Accounting . It 's overkill , meaning you 'd spend a lot of time ( and money ) to learn things that you wo n't need or apply to Business Analytics and NC State . Instead , you could assemble the necessary knowledge and skills though a series of undergraduate courses , and even some on-line MOOC courses . The basics : single and multivariate calculus , linear algebra , probability and statistics ( based on calculus ) , a basic programming course ( one of Python , Java , etc. ) , a mathematical programming course ( MatLab , Mathematica , R , or Python + NumPy + SciKit ) . To this base you could optionally add one of the following : Data Science MOOC , a Decision Science MOOC , a Business Process Management or Total Quality Management MOOC , or even a Data Visualization MOOC . These MOOC courses will give you some knowledge of how the basic knowledge is applied to business analytic problems .
In the US , under FERPA , institutions of higher education ( rules are different for K12 education ) are required to define what pieces of information about a student are " directory information . " This typically includes the name , address , and phone number of a student and may include other information such as the student 's dates of attendance , major , and any degrees that the student has been awarded . The list of what items constitute directory information has to be made available to students , and students have the option of to keep this directory information confidential . Other more detailed information ( such as courses taken , grades , class rank , etc. ) is automatically confidential and can only be released after an explicit waiver from the student . If a student has chosen to make their directory information confidential , then the university wo n't confirm or deny that the student has any connection to the institution . if the student has n't opted for confidentiality , then the registrar 's office will typically provide the directory information when asked . There are good reasons for this protection . For example , consider the situation of a student who has been the victim of domestic violence and is hiding from an abusive family member . The abuser could call the university , talk them into providing the student 's contact information and then use it to track down the student and harm the student in some way . On the flip side , this confidentiality provision can cause problems with reference checks for former students . If a student chose confidentiality and years later an employer calls the university and asks " Did John Doe complete a BS degree at your institution ? " The institution would have to say " We can neither confirm nor deny this . " In my experience , a fairly significant percentage of students ( maybe 10 to 20 % ) at my institution opt for confidentiality of their directory information . Given the problems that this can cause with reference checking , I 'm somewhat surprised by how many students opt for confidentiality . In general , the office to ask would be the registrar 's office . They regularly handle requests from people who are conducting reference checks and background investigations .
PhD studentships are quite often advertised like " normal " jobs , i.e. on general job boards/recruting websites . If you have contacts , by all means use them . As for evaluating the candidates , similar guidelines as for evaluating applicants for any jobs apply . I do n't think there 's a one-fits-all answer . Note that the hiring process may also depend on what institution you 'd be working for . They might have an HR department that screens/selects the candidates .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
No . Once you have a PhD , nobody cares about your previous degrees , or if you even graduated from high school . ( I know at least one <URL> . )
end question
start question
What is appropriate compensation for faculty mentors in an REU program ?
The NSF 's guidelines are that you can generally pay one faculty-month of salary . In principle , you can propose to divide this money up however you like , but if you try to divide up the compensation among all the faculty members involved , it may not be enough money going to any single person to really be worthwhile . As the PI of an REU site , I do not pay the other faculty supervisors anything . However , my field is not mathematics but physics . The faculty mentors , most of whom work in experiment but some of whom are theorists , would all be on campus doing research even if the REU students were not present . Most of them are getting paid summer salary off other research grants . The only direct faculty compensation goes to me , since I manage all the advertising , admissions , and logistics for the program , which really do amount to about a month of full time work . Some other programs have a PI and co-PI who share the responsibilities and compensation basically equally , but I would suggest not dividing the money up too finely .
I do not think you should reuse the letter as is , for two reasons : The letter writer did not intend for it to be reused , or else it would have been written more generically . It 's generally not reasonable to use such a letter outside of the circumstances envisioned/authorized by its author . You would have to explain that there 's no realistic way to contact the writer , and that is itself a red flag . It looks suspicious to say " here 's what Professor X would say if you could contact him , but you ca n't " . A letter is n't worth much if the committee could n't in principle contact the writer to confirm or ask further question . Certain rare cases might merit an exception , such as reusing a letter from someone who has since died . ( Where the death is a matter of public record , everybody assumes that of course the writer would have updated the letter if death had n't intervened , and they are inclined towards flexibility because of the difficult situation . ) How hard would it really be to contact the letter writer ? If it 's inconvenient but not impossible , then it could be your best option .
This makes the letter of recommendation more personal and shows , you really want to support her . It makes a difference to all the other " this student has good grades and is always on time " - letters . So go ahead !
If you 're using forums , do n't just make a thread and then write : Class project , please fill out this survey . Link : www.xxxxxx984asdfac . Thx !! Most of the time these annoying threads can trigger shutting down or be simply ignored as spam . I 'd recommend picking a few major forums and actually start a communication with the administrators . In no more than a few hundred words explain who you are , what questions you 're trying to answer , and how your results may help both parties . If the outcome is positive , here are a bunch of wishes you can usually ask for : Pin your thread at the top for a fixed amount of time to enhance visibility . Tap into their membership e-mail or online messaging network for an announcement and about 2 waves of weekly reminders . Provide you with important statistics including open rate , click rate , bounce rate , initiation rate , and completion rate . These are all necessary if you are to publish your results in an academic journal . Try to enhance your credibility by , in the mail to the administrator and the message to the users : Detailing the motive of your survey , what kind of questions respondents should anticipate , and how long would it take . Getting an institutional review board approval , and report so in the announcement . Explicitly mentioning the measures to ensure respondents ' confidentiality and/or anonymity . Explaining how the results will be used , and even be fed back to the communities that have helped you filling in the survey . Being real and present by providing your official contact information ( names and school e-mail are sufficient ) . Invite respondents to contact you if they have questions about the study . Check with your supervisor and department for policy of using the school 's name . Clearly stating the opening period of the survey . You can also try contacting companies that hire freelancers , or talk to websites that organize freelance jobs . I 'd also suggest to make duplicates of your survey so that each forum will have their own referral link . You can pool the data later and compare the differences between forum . If you just make one survey you may not be able to figure that out at the end . Putting a " where do you learn about this survey ? " question may also help , though probably not as objective . Now , if you do n't care about knowing all those rates , and just want a quick turn around of data , you may use your network to contact some high profile people in the field and see if they are willing to broadcast that for you . Most of the time , a tweet from them would be quite effective . I also agree with the comments asking you to pay a visit to some social science faculty . At the very least , make sure your questions are examined by some professional for validity . Most researchers also do not mind share with you some templates of the survey introduction . Some other technical strayed thoughts : Do make a copy of online survey for each major source . Aka forum A will have its own link , and forum B will have its own link , etc. . That way later you can stratify them in the analysis . Invest in a good online survey service . Make sure not to enroll in those with limited responses . It 'd be very annoying for the 501st respondent to get a " quota full " warning if your free service account only allows 500 responses . Write good questions and include only relevant questions . Again , talking to some researchers will help a lot . The <URL> provides a good list of components you should include in manuscript . Read them before you start data collection and make sure you have thought about all these factors . Lastly , check if someone has already invented the wheel for you . Secondary data sets may have already covered information you wish to collect . For example <URL> maintained by the US Department of Labor ( I just went ahead and assume that you 're interested in the US market ) does ask question about freelancing . They even once released a <URL> about this .
As someone who 's tried to do both , there are some very valid reasons to prepare " formal " lecture notes . The primary reason why you 'd want to create your own notes is that for many courses , a single good text is not available , and as a result , the instructor has to cobble together material from a number of different sources to produce a coherent set of lecture notes -- or recommend that students work with multiple source texts . ( Given the out-of-control nature of textbook prices , the latter alternative is unlikely to work out well . ) If you have a single-text class , it may not be necessary to provide students an additional set of notes , provided your lectures stick to the main text material . However , if you bring in alternative or additional topics into your lectures , you may want to include notes for those topics , and refer students to the textbook for places where you follow the " standard " outline .
You have asked for an alternative interview date , gave them a list of options where you 're available , and made efforts to reschedule conflicting appointments . I do n't think there 's anything more that could be expected of you , so it should not be perceived as impolite if you just inform University C that unfortunately you ca n't come to any of the two offered interview dates due to conflicting appointments . If you want , you can explicitly mention interviews at other universities - that will make it clear that you 're genuinely interested in doing a PhD , and it will be understandable to most academics that everybody has a ranking of opportunities in such situations . You could offer to retract your application , or state that you expect that they wo n't consider your application any further , but I do n't think any of these would be required .
Honestly , I do n't know if there is much reason other than history and tradition to continue to put keywords on conference papers . Most people will find your paper via search engines , rather than by searching for keywords in some specialized interface , and search engine technology is good enough these days that keywords are not usually particularly necessary for improving the chance of your paper being found . The places where I know that keywords still actually matter , at least marginally , are : Putting in a keyword can be a good way to include a term that is n't otherwise explicitly stated in the paper ( and thus might not show up on search engines ) . Some reviewing systems use an author 's history of keywords to help figure out which papers they are likely to be a good reviewer for in the future . So , given all of this , how many keywords should you choose ? My own inclinations are as follows : When required to use the <URL> : two , because it 's a pain to look up something appropriate in their ontology , but I feel like I 'm shirking too obviously if I try to get away with only one . When I get to pick my own keywords : 3-6 , plucked from the air over the course of a few minutes by free association .
There are universities and research centers in Europe who accepts students without a masters degree , but they would require to take full credits of masters and to complete modules , before or while the research is being conducted . Therefore you might want to get in touch of those universities . Here are a few which I know of : <URL> <URL> Most of the time you need to show that you have enough skills with your previous experiences , publications , the letter of application/statement of purpose . An interview may follow where you will be asked about your work and the domain of work in which you have applied .
You can also find search tools specific to regions , such as <URL> . If you just need the same sort of general information that you will find on a program 's Web site , all in one place , this will be useful . If you know of a specific major that you want to study , many professional associations or organizations will put a long list of programs on their Web sites , see for example <URL> at the LINGUIST list or <URL> from the TESOL International Association . Sometimes these lists include detailed overviews of the programs , courses offered , and estimated costs , but usually not enough information to know about the quality of instruction . For thorough student reviews and comparisons of schools , see <URL> . This Web site has various tools for searching for and comparing the various details of schools , based on your personal requirements , such as the <URL> and the <URL> .
It sounds like a good thing to do , since the reviewing process for this journal is over . I would certainly appreciate it if I where the author of that article ( passed the frustration that generally follows article rejection ) . It 's almost certain that it will be submitted somewhere else , so your ( free ) inputs will benefit the authors and the community . This is valid , of course , only if you are not reviewer again in the next submission , you should definitely decline if it happens .
For a purely course-based Masters , in which you do not do research , the research strength of the university obviously wo n't matter very much . For a Masters in which you do research and create a thesis , however , the strength of the research group is likely to significantly outweigh the reputation of the school . This is because the most valuable thing that you can have when applying either for a Ph.D. or an industrial job is a strong recommendation letter from a respected colleague . If all I know about a student is that they got a Masters from MIT or Berkeley , well , a lot of students get such degrees , and some are excellent while others are worthless outside of the structured environment of the classroom . On the other hand , if the student comes from Mid-Ranked U with a strong personal recommendation from somebody whose work I know and respect , then they are likely a much better prospect than the unknown from a high-ranked university .
One-year master 's programs in computer science are usually terminal course-based degrees . They are essentially useless for a future research career , because they do not include time to do research . ( PhD admissions committees care about your research potential much more than your grades . ) Put brutally , professional MS programs exist for the sole purpose of trading tuition for the promise of a higher salary . The advantage of these programs is that successful graduates ( at least from my department ) actually do get higher salaries , and the program only takes one year . Also , if you work for a particularly enlightened employer , they may be willing to ( help ) pay your tuition . Two-year master 's programs in computer science are more research-based . In addition to classes , most research master 's students write a thesis describing original research ; that 's why it takes two years instead of just one . That 's also one of the advantages of the program ; you have more time to learn outside the formal classroom environment . You may also be able to secure funding through research or teaching assistantships ; these are almost unheard of for professional master 's students . The disadvantage is that if you 're not interested in research , the program takes two years instead of one . On the other hand , a research masters seems to have the same effect on salary as a professional masters , in part because it 's impossible to tell from a resume what type of MS you have .
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
JeffE is correct ; talk to your chair and get feedback . That being said , you 'll want to include the following in your talk : An overview of your research topic A discussion of relevant literature ( to demonstrate that you 've researched the topic ) A discussion of your specific problem Another literature discussion , much more focused on your specific problem Any preliminary results of experiments you may have run , if any What you plan on doing for the next few years ( Possibly most important ) Any specific issues/problems that your advisors have raised about your research . You should specifically address these to show that you 're paying attention to what they say and that you listen to their comments . The best way to prepare is to talk with everyone in advance and find out what their objections/comments/issues / questions will be as much as possible , and then do your best to prepare for that and any related issues . If that sounds like a lot of work , it 's because it is a lot of work . Dan 's comments are also spot on ; you may have some very difficult committee members who will ask all sorts of questions , and you should make sure your advisor is on your side from the get-go .
So far as I know , your understanding of the typical use of " embargo " for journals is correct : it is when a journal wants to be the " first to press " with its article , and so places a gag order on the authors and their institutions so that they do n't go talking to the press first . There is another place where journals also often want to be " first to press , " however , and I suspect that this is what " embargo " refers to in this case . It is often the case that a journal makes its content available through multiple routes : immediately through the publisher for a premium , and with time-lag through larger accumulations , such as PubMed or ScienceDirect . Thus , I think that what is probably going on here is that your institution does not judge this journal important enough to subscribe to directly , but gets it as part of a time-lagged " package deal . " You should check with your librarian how long the time-lag is , and then decide whether it 's worth waiting or if you want to ask a colleague to help you get around the paywall ...
He either has personal issues , or he does n't focus on teaching . If he is having personal problems , it is wrong to approach him like a friend and expect him to give details . You are the student and he is the professor , and his personal issues are private and he will share them with someone close if he wants to . As an adult , he probably knows how the process works . Either way , the only thing that matters is whether he is doing his job properly . If you think he is not doing so , then you should give constructive criticizm , such as when you are in class and you do n't understand , you can say that for the last classes you are having difficulties understanding and putting it all together and suggest a method so that you can benefit better from his course . Or , you can send an e-mail about how certain things can be improved without sounding very negative .
An abstract is a preliminary submission that summarizes the contribution of a paper . There are usually strict limits on the length of an abstract , either in terms of words or of total characters ( rarely do they exceed 1000 words or 5000 characters ; they are often substantially shorter than this . An extended abstract and a full paper are nearly the same ; the primary difference is that an extended abstract tends to be somewhat shorter than a full paper ; I 've seen extended abstracts from 2 pages up to 6 pages , while conference papers run from 4 up to about 12 or 15 , depending on the space allotted . One other important difference -- outside of computer science , extended abstracts almost never go through a formal peer-review process before being published , while a conference paper will typically have at least one reviewer . ( I think this is the case for almost all such papers , but there may be exceptions . )
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
Where do you want to work ? Research universities want people who do research , publish , go to conferences , and can tolerably teach , in that order . Small liberal arts colleges want people who can teach and who do enough research to keep up with the field . These are rough generalizations . There 's no right answer here .
Assuming that you 're not in a field where it 's " strictly alphabetical order " ( like economics ) , the question of which position is more important depends on what stage of your career you 're in . If you are a beginning academic -- a PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow -- then the first-author publications are most important , as these will show you taking an active and leading role in your research . As you move up the chain , however , and reach more senior positions , having the last-author credit becomes more important , as now you 're showing your leadership role in directing projects . You do n't want to be stuck in the trap of being a " junior " partner in research collaborations , with the senior PI getting all of the credit for the work .
end question
start question
Can I modify my name on my Scopus profile page ?
You can simply publish your paper with your new name on it . It will appear in Scopus within your new author profile ( with a newly created Scopus Author ID ) . Finaly , you can send a request to merge authors to Scopus ( <URL> ) . All your Scopus records ( with the former and new name ) will be collected in a unique author profile . When merging profiles , you should set your newly created profile ( with your new name ) as preferred .
How acknowledgments work is always a bit of a judgment call , but to me the following principle seems reasonable . You are free to acknowledge anyone in any paper as long as what you acknowledge them for is factually accurate . If you have any reason to believe that the acknowledged party might take issue with the factual accuracy of what you write in your acknowledgments , it would be honorable to show them a draft of the paper and ask for their blessing on the wording of the acknowledgment . If this causes them to ask to be omitted from the acknowledgments , then it seems reasonable to honor this request unless you feel that removing this acknowledgment compromises academic integrity . ( For instance , if you are including significant work of the acknowledged party , then just because they do n't want you to mention that does not necessarily make it okay to do so . This creates a sticky wicket that other questions and answers on this site have addressed . ) I believe it follows from the principle that whether acknowledgments are acceptable depends more on what they acknowledge you for than whether they drop your name or not . For instance , suppose they thank you for " helpful conversations " . If you did in fact speak ( or write ... ) to them about their work , then if they say the conversation was helpful , how can you argue ? I think that most savvy academics understand that just dropping someone 's name in the acknowledgments does not mean that the paper contains their imprimatur . Nevertheless it is shady to acknowledge someone -- especially someone very famous and eminent -- purely for the cachet that their name may convey to less than savvy readers . <URL> a famous review of Marilyn vos Savant 's book on Fermat 's Last Theorem that calls out the author along these lines : she acknowledged some very famous mathematicians , who when contacted by her surely did not say anything to indicate that the material in her book was correct ( not only does it contain errors , but it contains errors that any practitioner or serious student of mathematics would regard as bizarre ) . In the case at hand : I think the OP would be within her rights to mention that she would rather not be acknowledged in the paper . Whether she wants to indicate that this is because she still finds the work to be significantly flawed depends on all kinds of social and political factors beyond the scope of this answer . As to that I would only say : in my opinion , simply very politely asking for your name to be removed from the paper without getting into why is probably a higher percentage strategy than indicating that the work is still problematic . Added : Let me add that the principle above is meant to be on the minimalist side . In practice , if you think that someone is not going to appreciate being acknowledged in your paper for whatever reason , then unless there are academic integrity issues involved in omitting the acknowledgment it seems wise to do so . Once I acknowledged a friend of mine in a preprint in a way which was factually accurate but nevertheless embarrassing to him : he simply did not want to be associated with something that he viewed as intellectually trivial . I took his name out of the later drafts of the paper . This incident has made me think more carefully about how acknowledgments will be received by the acknowledged party .
One may prove their knowledge by these aspects . They may have a certificate of the courses they have passed . They may have a publication or patent registration in the field of their personal studies . They may have worked in the field of their knowledge and their projects and portfolio is a proof of their knowledge . A website designer may not have any certification of their design knowledge , but the websites they have designed are the proof of their knowledge . You may have done voluntary/paid teaching at your undergraduate university or in an educational institute , so you have the certification of your teaching activity and that may be counted as a proof of your teaching and your knowledge . ( Also teaching/research assistantships to a course which you have never passed but you did assistantship in that area . ) You may have some publications in the area of your knowledge , for instance , a published paper or book ; or a contribution to a publication which is so related to your knowledge . You may have done some jobs related to your knowledge . An engineering design , done some code-developing , etc. . You may have a recommendation letter from a professor in which has written that you have sit in their class for that course , but you have never registered for the course ; so it proves that you have the knowledge of the course . However , as far as you are registering for a graduate program , you must fulfill their requirements not what is generally/logically reasonable or what seems to be acceptable . So it is better to provide all your proofs in your CV or their application process website and let them ask you for more official documents . Also , you can email them and ask for your special issue . P.S. . It seems that your question indicates self-study knowledge , but some people may have done some non-degree programs and certificates of those courses may also prove their knowledge in the course .
If you do not have publications ( including papers " in press " ) then the publications list can be left empty . If you have papers . You can , however add headings for publications " under review " , if you have any or " manuscripts in preparation " , again , if you have any . You may also have unpublished reports of different types . Such contributions can also be listed under a separate heading . What can be included is difficult to say but in my case , I used to include annual reports I had to write to a super-computer center and a research station , both which were collated with others and printed by the organising body . So any report sitting in a drawer is not valid . Obviously the a " manuscript in preparation " will not be very strong but it will at least indicate that something is ongoing . But , note that a manuscript in preparation should be something worth reading to make it to such a list . In a situation like yours any written material prepared for some official body and with some distribution , can be used to indicate your activities . There is a grey zone which is undefinable ( which is why one generally avoids such listings later in the career ) , so do not put in anything . In short , you need to be able to show these " claims " .
Taking it that your asking about a nom de plume ( aka " pen name " ) for reasons of conspicuousness , rather than for reasons of anonymity : Yes , it is possible to publish under something other than your legal name . A nom de plume is n't that unusual in academia , particular for folk with common names who would otherwise be unfindable in literature databases . You need to make sure that your legal identity is sufficiently tied to your nom de plume , so that there 's not going to be any arguing about it . Some people adopt double-barrelled surnames for their noms de plume : others add a distinctive first or second initial . As long as its sufficiently close to your real name , that should be sufficient . Note that this will entail your nom de plume effectively becoming your name for academic purposes : it 's what will be on your email correspondence , your web page , your conference name-badges , and so on . You 'll just have to do a bit of tweaking with university administration so that payroll , legal , and travel arrangements are all in your real name , not your pen name .
You can simply publish your paper with your new name on it . It will appear in Scopus within your new author profile ( with a newly created Scopus Author ID ) . Finaly , you can send a request to merge authors to Scopus ( <URL> ) . All your Scopus records ( with the former and new name ) will be collected in a unique author profile . When merging profiles , you should set your newly created profile ( with your new name ) as preferred .
I think you should be honored and flattered by your professor 's suggestion . He/she thinks you deserve a larger share of the credit for the paper and is trying to help you get that credit . Your concern about the CV/publication list is somewhat valid , but there is a simple way to address that issue . In your publication list , put a small asterisk next to the paper in question , accompanied by a footnote saying : " For this publication my coauthors agreed to name me first author as credit for my contributions . In all other publications my name appears in alphabetical order , as is the custom in my discipline and indicating roughly equal contributions from all coauthors . " Of course , adding such a footnote is a bit tedious and awkward , and the benefit you will get from being first author may not be very large . Perhaps you may conclude that it 's not worth the hassle . Or you may feel it could distract people looking at your CV from other things about you that you feel are more important . Or you may think this is just too trivial an issue to care about . All of those would be completely reasonable reasons not to accept the offer . But there would certainly be nothing wrong with accepting it .
Generally , the agreement that you sign with a journal publisher is not just to allow publication , but rather to transfer ownership of the copyright to the publisher . After that point you do n't own the copyright and ca n't publish the material your self except under the terms of the copyright transfer agreement . Some agreements are quite liberal while others are more strict . However , most journal publishers specifically allow for the publication of papers that are substantially similar to parts of " published " MS theses and PhD dissertations - under this system you can still make copies of your thesis or dissertation freely available online . Furthermore many publishers are OK with theses or dissertations that basically consist of chapters that were previously published as papers in their journals . A few publishers ( for example I believe that this was an issue with the American Chemical Society although they 've updated their policy ) have not allowed these practices . In short , copyright is most likely not going to be an issue in publishing research papers based on your thesis . Another issue that you did n't discuss in your question is rewriting the thesis material to fit into the short form of a journal article . Thesis chapters usually need to be significantly shortened for journal publication .
In the US , various funding agencies ( NSF , NIH , DOE , ... ) have fellowships you can apply to for predoctoral students . They tend to be very competitive compared to internal sources ( Teaching Assistantships , Research Assistantships , Graduate Assistantships ) , but they may offer a higher stipend . Depending on your field , professional societies also offer fellowships : American heart association , Whitaker foundation , Gates foundation . Industry also offers some in association with various schools : Siemens , Raytheon , Johnson &amp; Johnson .
In general , you can put pretty much whatever you want in your CV ( unless there is a template , in which case deciding what to put or not should be pretty straight-forward ) . The question is : what is the point of putting a piece of information in your CV ? Usually , a CV is used in the context of a recruitment process , where the point , in the end , is to give reasons to the recruiter to recruit you instead of someone else . Hence , a piece of information contained in a CV should be instructive , for instance by ensuring that you do have the proper credentials , or by providing evidence that you can be apt to the position you are applying for . Perhaps attending conferences is something relatively rare in your field , and you have attended more than the average PhD students ? In that case , listing all the conferences you have attended could indicate you are very interested in keeping up with recent advances in your field . It could also show that you enjoy travelling . Perhaps you have secure internal or external funding to attend that conference ( i.e. , the funding was not automatically given ) ? That 's also good evidence . You could list them if it provides evidence for an aspect that you are willing to emphasise in your application . On the other hand , if the conferences you have attended had nothing special , or do not help emphasising any particular point , then you might want to keep the space in your CV for something else .
There is some possibility of this , but it would work only in certain restricted ways and in certain limited contexts . I do n't know of any reputable college or university that , when considering applicants for a position that already exists , consider an applicant 's willingness to accept less than the standard salary as a point in their favor . If you think this through , probably you can see why it makes everyone look bad . You might have some luck getting an academic institution to make a position with an unusual combination of duties and salary that is tailored to you . Here are some possibilities : At some institutions , faculty couples " share " positions in some fractional way : e.g. the couple together has 1.5 positions and each does 75 % of the work of a full-time faculty member . If someone had come to me with this as a new idea I would have rejected it as ridiculous , but nevertheless it actually exists in the real world . I know several examples . Similarly , you may be able to arrange a single position which is " part time " in some specified way : so maybe it is a visiting teaching position with half the normal teaching load and half the normal salary . In the very short term , such positions are common . It is not directly in the spirit of what you are asking about , but the effect could be similar . Finally , if salary is really no object , it is much easier to get a visiting scholar position which pays no salary whatsoever . I did this myself once : the summer after getting my PhD ( at Harvard ) , I moved back to my hometown ( Philadelphia ) and got an apartment in University ( of Pennsylvania ) City . I noticed that there was a wonderful library and gym a few blocks away from me , and I presented myself " cold " in the UPenn math department with a copy of my CV and my PhD . I walked out as a Visiting Scholar . ( Nowadays I think that what I did was a little weird : why not first contact some specific faculty member in the department ? Maybe I did n't know who to contact , or maybe I was curious to see if walking in cold and presenting Ivy League credentials would actually work . It did ! This " position " still appears on my CV . ) If what you are interested is not covered by the above , then I would say : in general this will be hard to swing , but if you have a more specific arrangement in mind you can ask about that ( e.g. here ) and maybe it can be worked out . Let me end by saying something that I suspect you already know : if you aspire to have anything like a conventional academic career in the future , advertising yourself broadly as someone who is willing to work at a discounted rate is a pretty bad idea . If you do seek to pursue this idea of yours , I would do so with much discretion .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
You 'd need to ask the specific journal if they 're okay with it . I suspect many would be , since many other forms of quasi-publication prior to a paper are acceptable .
Basically it should be fine . In my own experience large publishers ( Springer , BMC etc ) have outsourced the proofing process or at least a separate division does it . After Editor has viewed your paper along with possible revisions made proposed by the reviewers , the paper is usually moved to the people doing the proofing . Theoretically , you could make any corrections possible , since the writers have no expertise in the subject . At least this is my experience . They just do the job according the journals policy and instructions . As so , I strongly believe you can make corrections outside the proposed ones . In some journal journals they also inquire for " any other corrections " . Of course if you make revisions which have any influence on the scientific matter there might be issues after publication .
Most commonly the deadline is inclusive , i.e. , " January 15 " means that the deadline is " at some moment during January 15 " . What does this mean can vary : For online applications , it 's usually 23:59:59 . For mailed applications , there are two options and exactly one of them is true : either the poststamp has to be January 15 ; or it has to arrive to the institution by January 15 . For applications you deliver in person , usually the opening hours of the office where you have to bring it apply . In either case , it should be specified in the conditions . And please remember that timezones can play a role here , and everything is in the timezone of the institution where you apply unless stated otherwise . / From comments / If you doubt the precise conditions , just call them or e-mail them and ask for clarification . It will cost you less than solving any troubles afterwards .
Between name changes , use names , transliteration , etc. , this is a rather common situation , and copyright forms are generally well designed to allow graceful handling of it . Most copyright forms that I have encountered include two separate places where you put a name : A list of the authors , in which you should write all of the names exactly as they appear on the paper . A signature line , in which an authorized signer ( in this case , yourself ) should place their usual signature , in the same form that you use it for other legal documents . There is no actual requirement that these names be identical , just that the authorized signer take legal responsibility for the assertions of the document , including asserting that the list of author names is appropriate . In fact , for some authors , their organization may not allow the author to be the person who signs the document ! Thus , if you write your name on the paper as " author " and you write your legal name for signature , this should be fine and appropriate . If , somehow , you encounter a form that does not make the distinction between the two names , then I would say it is highly likely that the organization issuing the form must be rather sloppy with regards to handling copyright in any case , and you should not worry about it .
If you are in mathematics , there is no notion of " first author " , so you can ignore alphabetization . You can put your own name on the first slide as you normally would , and then elsewhere on the slide add " Joint work with XXXX . " Here 's an example from a slide talk I gave : <URL>
I think there is a slight conflict of interest to the disadvantage of the applicant . You might be more negative in a reference addressed to your own employer ( to whom you may feel a duty to help as much as possible with their hiring process ) , than you would be in a reference addressed to a perfect stranger ( to whom you only owe a general duty not to defraud them ) . People recommend other people to their employers all the time , so this is something the hiring committee should be able to deal with . However , if you plan to actually say anything negative about the candidate in your reference ( " I do n't think this candidate has the experience to be interviewed for the role , let alone hired " ) , then you should make sure that the candidate fully understands the situation before choosing to use you as a reference . They might have other referees they 'd prefer to use in that case . As Kimball says in a comment , the existence of this conflict of interest is n't an ethical problem provided all parties understand it . The hiring committee knows your job and expects to take account of your relationship to the applicant when considering a reference , so no problem there . The student knows your job , so the only risk is if they do n't appreciate the implications of that . After that , if either of them thinks you 're too conflicted to use as a reference then they wo n't ask you for one , you do n't need to recuse yourself .
The professional version of Adobe Acrobat provides advanced functions like commenting and indexing , but it 's not cheap . The free <URL> enables annotations and bookmarks and works well . It 's quick , easy , and I can save the updated versions and access the bookmarks , etc in free Adobe Reader . Writing some big keywords in <URL> on my written notes ( before scanning ) has been a big help .
I will take a somewhat different view from @jakebeal 's answer . The primary question is : when did you work on the paper ? Did you do all of the work while you were a thesis student , and then the paper has slowly made its way through the system ? Or did you actively work on it as part of your new job ? Did you use institutional resources from your new position to do any part of the paper ? If the answer to the latter is no , then you should only list the old institution in the actual affiliations , and then list your new job as a " present address " , if you so choose . If you worked on the paper as part of your new job ( beyond rote submission and minor edits ) , then you should list both workplaces as " active " affiliations .
end question
start question
What is the difference between Ph. D programs with coursework and those without it ?
It seems to me that there are several advantages ; none of these are suitable for every student . It 's up to you whether enough of them apply to you , to make it worth doing a taught PhD : A PhD with a bit of coursework in the first year will help those who are crossing over into a discipline that they 're not already deeply embedded in : it will give you some hand-holding through the things you 'll need to know but do n't yet ; it should ( if taught well ) also teach you some extra research skills ; it will give you some indication as you progress as to how well you 're doing , compared to how well you should be doing if you 're going to finish it will allow you to explore different aspects of the field , to help you finalise your thesis topic it may , depending on the country and institution , give you an intermediate degree at the end of the taught section , such as an MRes , which will count for something even if you then do n't go on to do the full PhD it lessens the culture-shock for those going straight from fully-taught study to a research degree .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
A review paper is likely also known as a " survey paper " , where you read ( i.e. survey ) related works in the field and then comment on them . Usually , a review paper should be able to contribute a small amount of knowledge in its own right to the field by providing a taxonomy of work . Another type of paper that reviews extensively related work but is n't actually a review paper is a <URL> in which you usually ask a meta-question about the field . If it appears in a refereed , peer-reviewed journal , then yes , it is a publication . In fact , if done well , these works can often have pretty high impact and can be cited very frequently . However , as already noted , since they do n't usually involve substantial original research they need to be augmented with traditional research papers . If a graduate student has only survey papers or systematic review papers , I 'd wonder as a search committee reviewer if this student did nothing but read related work rather than working on research . With respect to MS or PhD applications , I 'd think that the fact that you have a publication at all is already a bonus point for you . Most students who apply to these programs do n't have publications .
Usually , the scheme of a scientific study has a hourglass shape scheme , from wide , to narrow , and wide again . In the first wide , we use the introduction to describe the general topography and bring focus to a particular problem . Then we narrow down to describe how our experiment is designed , data are collected , analysis is done , etc. . When results are ready , we interpret them , and then again widen up the scope to talk about implications , applications , and recommendations in the Discussion section . In my opinion , objectives are a list of actions to perform , or questions to answer so that you can complete the narrow part of the study scheme . Contributions are a list of applications or significance to other researchers that brought about by your work , and they are perhaps more fitting in the second wider part of the study scheme . For instance , the objective of a project could be " to validate a low cost blood glucose measurement device . " And if it is indeed valid , the contribution could be " allow more people to afford to measure their glucose , and potentially lead to better diabetes control in the population . "
It never hurts to specifically check with your undergraduate advisor and the desired graduate school 's admission office just to make sure . My understanding is that as long as your current university acknowledges your completion of the undergraduate program ( regardless of whether you physically have the Bachelor degree certificate or not ) prior to you officially beginning your graduate program , then there should be no problem . But like I said , you should check in with your undergrad advisor so that they can inform you of any lingering policies or concerns .
I 'm sure some advisors do act this way . I do n't think it 's very common , but it does happen . It 's more common for advisors to expect certain results than a particular hourly commitment , but all these things are a matter of extent . However , in trying to figure out whether to switch advisors , I think you 're asking yourself the wrong question . The right question is : What type of advising relationship works for you ? If you feel energized , motivated , and happy under your current conditions , that 's one thing . If you feel overburdened and miserable , then you should probably look for a different advisor . Even the most competitive Ph.D. programs have faculty who are not so demanding . You have to figure out what type of style works best for you and try to find an advisor who is a good match .
Yes , you 're right , " starting research " prior to an adequate basic education can result in huge wastes of time . But it also makes little sense to " wait a few years " until all the required coursework is done . And , yes , even then , one is not over-educated . Seriously , I think ( and recommend to my students ) that they maintain several different threads . The two main ones are attention to standard core material and more advanced courses , while also trying to skip forward to read about current events . The trickier third thread is trying to back-fill from current events to " standard material " , as needed . Almost any choice of " single thread " seems misguided .
You 're not obligated to tell them . Whether you tell them or not would be unlikely to have an impact on your future either . They 're probably not going to track you down and find you , and would mostly use the information to improve recruitment in the future . Imagine if you told them you chose University X instead because you had family there and it was easier to secure housing . That 's a sound reason , and unlikely to cause any sort of mark in the off chance they were tracking you . I would try to avoid saying anything bad about the school , though .
Yes , it happens . And it has to be this way . We 've had students who do not do sufficiently well in the coursework , but do so well in other regards that they are allowed to continue on to their Phd : the research committee is there to weigh up the positive and negative signs , within the regulations set out for them . Occasionally , we have students who pass the coursework and then struggle with self-guided research . So now we have two gateways : the coursework , and then a year later an upgrade report and seminar , which is their formal transition from an MPhil programme to a DPhil programme . A department may not get many opportunities to formally remove a failing student . This will vary by institution and discipline , but it can be the case that there are not many opportunities within the trajectory of a single PhD to terminate cleanly and indisputably . We never like to do it . It 's the worst thing we can do . Apart from the alternative , when the alternative is letting a candidate go forwards into a drawn-out and ultimately unsuccessful attempt at completing the PhD . This is exacerbated if they might make increasing demands on staff , and/or might become increasingly disruptive to other students . If the supply of good potential candidates is greater than the number of available places ; or there are financial penalties when students fail later rather than earlier in the process ; then the imperative to filter out weak candidates becomes stronger . Coursework , research proposals , upgrade seminars and upgrade reports , are some of the small selection of tools we have to help us identify weak candidates . Writing a PhD thesis is indeed completely different to doing coursework . And there are candidates that excel at coursework , but could not write a doctoral thesis ; and maybe there are candidates where the reverse is true . Nevertheless , the coursework gives us an opportunity to assess a candidate 's skills and domain knowledge . So that 's why a justifiable proposal is not in and of itself sufficient ( even when it 's a self-funded candidate ) . If successful coursework is specified as a requirement , then the regulation does n't need to say what happens if a student fails the coursework : if any requirement is n't met , then the candidacy does n't have a right to proceed - that 's the essence of a requirement . There might be alternatives to some requirements : these should be in the regulations somewhere . Your supervisors , or the faculty 's graduate tutor , or the university 's graduate school , should be able to advise .
It depends on the differences between the MS and the PhD . PhD programs are always research programs , so your statement of purpose is going to testify to your preparation for undertaking scholarship , your research interests , and your fit with the program in a research context . You 'll name specific professors whose research interests align with yours ; you might list some resources ( like labs , archives , libraries , etc. ) that the university has that make it a good fit for your work . Some students choose to say a little about their career goals and how the program will help you towards them , but there 's really no need - if you 're applying for a PhD program , professors will assume you want a research career ( probably in academia ) . If you are applying to a research-based MS that is designed to prepare scholars for further PhD student or for research-oriented careers , your statement probably wo n't be much different than a PhD statement . It may be advantageous to state that you want a research career and a PhD eventually for MS programs that explicitly state that they exist primarily to prepare students for the PhD . However , if you are applying for a professional MS program , your statement will be a bit different . You still want to talk about experiences you 've had that have prepared you for graduate study , but in addition to talking about research and some coursework , you also may want to mention professional non-academic prep ( like work experience , internships , maybe even extracurriculars if they are highly relevant ) . You can still mention professors and research interests if you want , but it 's not necessary . Instead , in the tailoring paragraph , you 'll focus more on other resources that the university has - like close ties with employers , a co-op program , a specialization in your area , etc. . And you 'll want to close with a short statement about your career goals and how you think the program can help you reach those . When I applied for graduate school , I applied to both PhD programs and master 's programs in my field that were mostly for professional preparation . I used essentially the same template for both kinds of programs , but I put a little more emphasis on non-research resources at the prospective program and career preparation in the master 's statements .
I just participated in a NASA grant-writing workshop . This question came up there , too . The following rules apply for both NASA grants and for NSF grants . ( I 'm sure there are differences , but at least what I 'm writing is the same for both . ) Can the grant be transferred from one institution to another ? Yes . Check out <URL> which describes NSF 's grant policy : Contracting or Transferring the Project Effort ( Subawards ) a. Excluding the procurement of items such as commercially available supplies , materials , equipment or general support services allowable under the grant , no significant part of the research or substantive effort under an NSF grant may be contracted or otherwise transferred to another organization without prior NSF authorization . The intent to enter into such arrangements should be disclosed in the proposal submission . b . If it becomes necessary to contract or otherwise transfer a significant part of the research or substantive effort after a grant has been made , the grantee shall submit , at a minimum : ( i ) a clear description of the work to be performed ; ( ii ) the basis for selection of the subawardee ( except for collaborative/joint arrangements5 ) ; and ( iii ) a separate budget for each subaward . The request must be submitted electronically , and NSF authorization will be indicated by an amendment to the grant signed by the Grants and Agreements Officer . The NSF grant conditions will identify which articles flow-down to subawardees . c. Procurements under NSF grants are also subject to AAG Chapter V.C and OMB Circular A-110 Sections .41 through .48 . ( 2 CFR  215.41-48 ) The grant is awarded to your institution , not to you . Because of this , your institution would choose to do one of the following : Nominate somebody ( e.g. a Co-I ) to take over when you leave Terminate the grant outright Initiate the grant transfer process ( if certain criteria are met , and both institutions agree ... ) According to the NASA VIP leading the workshop , transfers between US institutions happen , though they are rare . Either way , if you plan to do this , you should contact all involved parties : your current institution , the destination institution , and your program officer/manager ( your designated NSF/NASA contact person ) for the grant . Can it be transferred to an international institution ? No . As indicated in 3.c above , <URL> indicates that funds can be sent under the following condition ( among others ) : ( i ) grantee is not an individual or a foreign institution ; Since both NASA and the NSF are government organizations , they are prohibited from funding foreign institutions . There are additional rules for certain countries , at least for NASA : if applying for a NASA grant , you ca n't have any affiliations with a Chinese institution via the <URL> .
If there is a standard in academic typesetting  and typesetting in general , it is to use a narrow space , i.e. : With space : 10 mA ; without space : 10mA ; with narrow space : 10 mA The most suitable Unicode character for this is U +202 F ( narrow no-break space ) . This is also the default setting of the LaTeX packages <URL> and <URL> . The <URL> says ( p. 47 ) : a space is always used to separate the unit from the number . However , it does not specify the width of the space . But at least , using no space at all is against this standard . As for readability , I am not aware of any studies on this , so I can only give you my informed opinion . Consider the following examples ( I use a picture to ensure that we are seeing the same thing and to be able to employ justified text ) : <URL> In the first sentence , no space is used . This makes it take longer to identify the unit as it merges with the numbers , in particular with long numbers . In the second sentence , a full space is used . Units are now read as individual words because that 's how our brain is trained to read full spaces . As our brain is also trained to process words one by one , it will first read and process 192.34 and then continue with K . In the third sentence , where narrow spaces are used , our brain is more likely to process the 192.34 K in one chunk and we also do not have the same problems as in the first sentence . Finally , consider the list in the second and third sentence ( 1  , 2  and 3  ) . With a full space it becomes more difficult for our brains to group what is written into individual items , as , e.g. , the first  has almost the same distance from the preceding 1 than from the 2 that follows it . With a narrow space , this is easier . Thus , using a narrow space is a compromise to have number and unit to be seperated less than words but more than the individual digits of the number .  Some journals do not seem to care to make their publications consistent in this respect .
There 's no general answer to the question . It depends on the individual course . If the course is designed so that grades are earned for demonstrating achievement of a learning outcome , then there will be a strong correlation between having high grades and achieving the learning outcomes of the course . If the course is designed so that grades are earned for things that do n't demonstrate achievement of a learning outcome , or so that students can achieve a learning outcome but not have an opportunity to demonstrate it to earn a grade , then the correlation will be weak . Also , your general description of " learning a subject " may not necessarily be strongly correlated with the desired learning outcomes of a course . It 's possible to earn a poor grade for a well-designed course even after having " learned the subject " if the course has specific learning outcomes ( i.e. , " Students will know how to solve a certain class of problem , " " Students will have learned this particular skill " ) and what you are learning about the subject happens to be orthogonal to those learning outcomes .
It is plagiarism if you copy someone else 's " creative contribution " . For example , if the section headings are How does the method identify errant patterns in spider webs ? An analysis of one million images of spider webs Results of our analysis and an attempt at tying web patterns to genetic disorders in arachnids then copying these section headings is likely plagiarism unless you specifically reference that you are following the same structure as previously used by the founder of the field , A. Rachnidova , in her seminal paper " On the patterns of spider webs " , Arachnophobia , vol . 13 , 1962 . On the other hand , if you section headings are Introduction Methods Results Discussion then there is no creative contribution in this -- everyone uses these sections headings , because they are descriptive of what these sections are . Consequently , you can also be " one of everyone " and use this without attribution .
From Thomson Reuters <URL> ... the evaluation of and acceptance of a journal for the SCI or the SCIE is essentially the same with ONE major difference . The only difference is the storage media . SCI is only available on CD/DVD format ; however , SCIE is available online .
The practical aspects of detecting plagiarism in text probably fall under the purview of Computer Science as @Davidmh discussed in <URL> , but developing these kinds of tools and actually applying them to detect malfeasance are very different things . <URL> is the professional career path that pertains most directly to the issue of detecting and exposing plagiarism . Many universities offer degrees and fellowships in journalism with exactly this focus : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
You do not a have a leg to stand on , legally , morally or otherwise . The thing you should actually indict them for is not responding to your emails . That is rude ; I think you should probably accept that as an implicit rejection . If they were still thinking of admitting you they would have checked on your status by this point . The issue with your argument is that it does n't actually follow the text of the resolution . The binding part of resolution you cited says " Students are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15 . " So , schools have agreed not to withdraw an offer because you have n't accepted it before April 15th , and not to try to hold you to an offer you 've accepted if you change your mind before April 15th . The school in question has held to their end of the bargain perfectly , since they never made you an offer . The resolution says nothing about the school having to make a decision before April 15th . Of course , schools are well aware that it will be much harder to get people after April 15th , so they make an effort to make offers earlier . However , this is not a deal , this is the department acting in their own self-interest . Unfortunately , there 's too much uncertainty in the process to guarantee you 'll make all offers before April 15th . After all , you have some plan for what your incoming class will be , you make offers to many more people than that , and you hope that you guessed the yield correctly . If the people who 've already been offered admission are waiting until April 15th to make up their minds , you 're then left with a great deal of uncertainty as the deadline approaches , since it will be a big problem if your incoming class is such bigger or much smaller than you planned . Thus , there often are people who you are not sure you want to reject , but not sure you have the money to fund . In my department , we still have a number of people waitlisted , since we have n't filled our class yet . Usually , such people will be formally notified they are on a waitlist ; I think again , that 's in the department 's self-interest and helps clarify things for the student . So , again , it 's likely this is an implicit rejection , which for whatever reason they have n't bothered to formalize .
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
Two small additions to the other answers : First , I have rarely seen " submitted to " , but more often simply seen " submitted , " with no journal or conference listed . The reason is simple : where you 've submitted to makes no difference , since anybody can get any sort of trash rejected by a top journal . For a " to appear , " however , the venue should always be included , since it means you 've passed the standards of peer review for that publication . Second , there is a third category that I have occasionally seen , " in revision . " For areas that have a very slow review process , this can be useful for distinguishing that a publication has passed at least one round of peer review , even though it is not yet " to appear . " It 's still a pretty weak distinction from " submitted , " however , so I would n't advise using it except for occasional edge cases with high-visibility journals .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
end question
start question
What is an endowed chair exactly ? How does it compare to a " normal " position ?
Chaired positions are generally endowed , in that the money provided for the salary , and some other benefits ( e.g. , a dedicated assistant ) or increased research funds comes from the interest on principal donated by the person or people the chair is named after , which is part of the school 's overall endowment ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Being named to a chair is a prestigious award , and in many cases it is a lifetime ( or at least , until retirement ) position . Some chaired positions are given on a rotating basis ( e.g. , for five years ) , but nonetheless it is prestigious to be named to an endowed chair . While it is not strictly true that professors in chaired positions are paid more ( because in most cases pay is negotiable ) , because universities use a combination of pay and incentives such as an endowed chair to lure highly sought-after candidates , the pay is probably on average higher than the average non-chaired full professor would have at the same institution and department . Finally , some schools use chairs at the university level ( versus the departmental or school level ) that they dole out throughout the university . The positions can therefore be used as an enabler for some departments with less money to attract particularly important faculty members that they might not have had an opportunity to attract otherwise . For a specific example of the policy for endowed chairs at one university ( Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ) , see <URL> .
This is the typical situation normal but all fouled up ( <URL> ) of job searches in the United States . Often you are lucky to get a two line e-mail or a postcard at the negative conclusion of a search . In the case of Chair searches , though , the fouled-up nature is usually much worse . I 'm assuming this is Chair-as-in-Head-of-a-Department rather than a Named-Chair-as-in-Benefactor-Sponsored senior position . Usually universities search for external Chairs when there are problems with the existing senior faculty that make it impossible for a Chair to arise from within the department . This means that search will be similarly confused , with possible internal conflicts in the department as well as external interventions from the Provost 's office . Because of these competing interests , external Chair searches can take even longer than the usual search . I would write to the Search Chair and ask what the status of the search is . Postscript : The OP has clarified that this is a search for a named chair . These tend to go smoothly as the institution already has the money vested by the benefactor , who usually wants to see the position filled quickly ( and is likely to give again if pleased by the results ) and often puts enough parameters on the position ( theoretical field , area of study ) that political factions within the department ca n't mess it up too much . So whatever is going on in the OP 's situation seems strange and rather unique .
An abstract is a preliminary submission that summarizes the contribution of a paper . There are usually strict limits on the length of an abstract , either in terms of words or of total characters ( rarely do they exceed 1000 words or 5000 characters ; they are often substantially shorter than this . An extended abstract and a full paper are nearly the same ; the primary difference is that an extended abstract tends to be somewhat shorter than a full paper ; I 've seen extended abstracts from 2 pages up to 6 pages , while conference papers run from 4 up to about 12 or 15 , depending on the space allotted . One other important difference -- outside of computer science , extended abstracts almost never go through a formal peer-review process before being published , while a conference paper will typically have at least one reviewer . ( I think this is the case for almost all such papers , but there may be exceptions . )
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
The question of what sort of ethical approval is required is a complicated one , depending on the local laws , funding sources , university policies , and journal policies . I do n't think anyone can give a definitive answer without knowing these details . For example , see <URL> for an indication of the rules imposed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services . Since we have the forms of informed consent , are n't they sufficient ? No . If ethical review consisted of nothing but saying " be sure to obtain informed consent " , then it would be replaced by a simple rule requiring informed consent . Even that is tricky ( what exactly are the risks you need to inform participants of ? ) , and there are other issues for a survey . For example , are you following best practices to ensure anonymity of survey respondents ? If none work out , is there a repository for unpublished work like ArXiv in epidemiology ? I do n't know , but I ca n't really imagine the community would look kindly on using such a repository to avoid ethical review . The institute ethical committee denied a post hoc approval . It makes sense for ethics committees to be reluctant to approve research after the fact . One reason is that it puts a lot of pressure on them to approve research that 's not perfect but can no longer be fixed ; another reason is that if post hoc approval is an option , it creates an incentive for researchers to skip the initial approval in the hope of forcing it through the process later .
In my case at least , the following helped me deal with busy academics who do n't respond to my emails ( both as a student or academic ) : Face To Face Meeting : If an academic does not reply to your email , trying to talking to him/her face to face through an online chat ( e.g. , Skype ) or in person , is much better for you , than a phone call from you . This is because , he/she will get a better understanding on what you are , and he/she needs to make a commitment to listen to you ; because he/she knows you are looking at him/her . Arranging The Meeting : Because he/she seems very busy , find his/her department , and try to find the secretary for his/her research group . And kindly ask the secretary to ask the academic for a meeting . Worst Case Scenario : The secretary ask the academic that Mr.x wants to have a meeting you . The academic for some reason does not want to do that , so then he/she will search at his/her mailbox and then will answer your emails . At least you get an answer to your sent emails .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
Very roughly , at the US universities I have worked for , the IP policies have been along these general lines : When you write a paper or book as part of your research , you get to keep the copyright and any royalties . But the university gets permission to use the work internally , keep a copy in the library , etc. . If , as part of your research , you invent something that 's patentable , contact the university 's IP office . They will help you with the patent process . You and the university will hold the patent together , or some similar arrangement . They have to agree on any licensing agreements , etc ( where you sell some company the rights to use your patent ) , and they get a large share ( perhaps half or so ) of whatever royalties or fees are earned . ( I 'm a pure mathematician , and we never invent anything patentable , so I always skim the patent part and may have got it wrong :-)
I do n't think that most candidates are very good at faking interest . So , ask the questions you are genuinely interested in , and your interest will show through . It is true that you have to give the best impression you can during an interview , but you do n't want to come across as fake or scripted . I would start by reading the university , college , and department websites . That may give you some questions . If you run out of questions , you can always ask other faculty in the department about themselves . It is rumored that academics love to talk about themselves . You can also talk about your research , which is an easy way to make small talk and show off your communication skills . Given that general advice , here are some questions that I think are common and " safe " : Ask about the tenure process . How long is the probationary period ? What is the general process ? Is there any form of mid-tenure review ? Ask about teaching . What courses do new faculty typically teach ? How tightly controlled are they ? Will you have a lot of new preparations ? Do faculty often teach over the summer ? What process is used to make teaching assignments ( seniority , rotation , etc. ) ? Ask about benefits . They can tell you about the insurance and retirement benefits , which vary significantly from school to school . Ask about housing . Where do most of the faculty live ? How far from campus do they live ? How expensive is it to live in the area ? Are there any particularly nice locations to live near the college ? Ask about living in the area . Is it a lively place ? A quiet place that 's " good for raising a family " ? Is there much nightlife ? Is there convenient local shopping ? Is it good for biking ? Here are some questions that you have to think about carefully before you ask them : Salary . Some prefer to talk about this during the interview ; some prefer to wait until an offer is made . Two-body problems ( if your spouse is also looking for a job at the university or in the area ) . Again , some prefer to wait until an offer is made , others mention it early . See these questions : <URL> and <URL> Unusual goals . For example , if you are being interviewed by department X , but you want to work mostly with people in department Y . In some cases , this sort of thing is a mark in your favor - in others it will doom your chances of getting hired .
To answer some of your questions , a lot of this will vary from university to university , and vary by location . One major aspect is to determine your research focus as early as possible and plan long and medium term objectives , and how these objectives are to be met at the beginning , in consultation with your advisors ( that is the advice I was given ) . Duration There is usually an upper limit of how long a student can take to complete the dissertation , and it is generally expected that the research , experiments , dissertation write up is performed within the time frame dictated by the university . Note , the length of time taken to complete the PhD is not necessarily a measure of how credible it is . ( I completed my PhD in Physics in 2.5 years ) . Papers are often published in consultation between you and your advisor ( s ) . But , during my PhD I was advised that it is a good idea to get some publications completed while you are studying ( I completed 4 while completing the research ) . Courses This varies between universities and places , for example , I was not required to take any courses whatsoever - just pure research . That is something you will need to check with any university you apply to . I did my PhD while working full time in an unrelated field , so I arranged regular ( fortnightly ) Skype meetings with my advisors , where short term goals were set and the medium and long term goals checked up on . As you are doing sciences by the looks of it , it will involve a considerable amount of experimentation ( potentially ) - some of it can be tedious , make sure you plan and get into that as soon as possible , while ensuring you get the most accurate possible data in a safe and efficient manner . Completion You complete your research when you have met your objectives and have , through research and experimentation , ' answered ' your research focus . What happens then varies between universities , some you will be expected to defend your thesis , and some , as in my case , your thesis is peer-reviewed . Once all that is done and your advisors and the university are satisfied , you will be told that you have passed ( in my case , I received a letter stating as such ) . But , the research never really ends , once you have that passion for that topic - you may find that the research continues , but now to be published as papers ( this also has been my experience ) . Find a topic that ignites the fire in you and you 'll find that the PhD is just the start of the journey . Finally and critically , make sure what you are doing is something that you find fascinating , something that you wo n't mind putting in many hours of research and work into . Choose something that is either your passion or something related to it . Get ready to challenge yourself on a regular basis . I hope this helps .
I wrote him an email to ask quick but important questions , like , when do you want me to start . I did n't get an answer even after a week . And similar things happened before as well . Some professors are notoriously bad in answering emails . This does not necessarily mean anything . Do n't fret about it . So I want to ask that as a professor , sometimes will you ( on purpose ) to NOT answer emails in time ? I 'm not a professor , but , no , this is not how I would expect an adult person ( in a management position , none the less ) to behave . If the professor is indeed having second thoughts about you and decided to just not answer anymore , I would say you dodged a bullet there . However , I really think that this is unlikely . Just send a polite reminder , or propose to have a quick chat e.g. , over Skype , at a time of the professor 's convenience .
Of course , it 's no problem to tell people " Hey , I was lazy in school but I 'll work super-hard for you . " Unfortunately , people wo n't buy it . From my time in the software industry , hiring quite a few people , I would actually not normally even look at their grades , unless they were borderline in the interview . Even then , if there was another candidate who was better in the interview , that borderline candidate would not even get a callback . Some people will care about grades but for computer science ' guys ' I find that what most people in industry really care about is what you can do for them . Can you help them more than someone else can help them ? If so , then you 'll likely land a job . If you shape up , pull out of your ' funk ' and get down to actually learning , you will likely be OK . If you let depression pull you under water , you 'll drown . You 've started your degree , you should finish it . However , do n't let the past dictate your future . This is the first day of the rest of your life . It 's always darkest before the dawn . I 'm sure there are more sayings along this line but in the end , depending your area of IT , you can do fine even if you had a bad start to school . If you have a strong finish , it 's easy to explain that you should be judged on your ' exit velocity ' rather than the start .
I assume that there are often-if-not-always internal candidates for open positions , in academia and outside . There are always students looking for Ph.D. slots , Ph.D. students looking for postdoc positions , assistant and associate professors looking to move up to the next level . ( Same for non-faculty positions , but that seems OT . ) Sometimes the people responsible for the position may not even know yet about such internal candidates , because they may not yet have sent in their application . So the question probably rather is whether these internal candidates are already frontrunners . The professor may want his extremely productive Ph.D. student to continue in the postdoc slot but may need to advertise externally for some procedural reason . The department may want to continue a certain research specialization and plan on promoting the retiring professor 's assistant prof. In such a situation , external candidates will need to be very convincing to win . But : how often will the external candidate be told this ? If the external advertisement is legally required , the hiring people may even open themselves up to litigation if they openly tell an applicant that they are only soliciting outside applications as a fig leaf . On the other hand , the department may explicitly be searching for " new blood " , so internal candidates may actually have worse chances than external ones . Which , again , nobody will tell you ( or the internal candidate ) . Of course , it makes sense to tap your network and see whether the grapevine can tell you more than official channels . However , this kind of information can be unreliable . So if you hear from multiple sources that a given position will be filled internally , it may make sense to not make the effort . Thus : there will likely be internal candidates , but you will probably not know how good their chances are . If you are a good match for the position , go and apply . Do n't worry about internal candidates . This is one part of the hiring situation you ca n't control , just like the mood of your interviewers . Giving up on an application because there is an internal candidate will be counterproductive in the long run .
While in principle everything that you use in your research should be paid for by those funding your research , in practice it 's not unusual to buy oneself small supplies at the " minor office supply " level for sake of expedience , or because they 're outside of the main line of one 's research . For example , a student might want a $ 10 piece of electronics today that would take several weeks to acquire through normal channels , and then might decide it 's not worth it to them to get reimbursed . You might also buy something for yourself if you want to be the owner : for example , I bought my own laptop late in graduate school , rather than using a school laptop , because I wanted it to be my own personal machine that I could take with me when I finished . What you have written , however , sounds like a much more problematic situation : it appears that you 're effectively being asked to lie to your professor 's funder , by misrepresenting how their money is being spent . If it 's a significant amount of money , then you could be abetting in a felony-level crime . As such , if it is a significant amount of money , I would strongly advise you to not buy the equipment yourself . Instead , I think you should tell your advisor that you need the equipment , but if they do n't get it , you 'll just have to do your best without . If your advisor does n't buy the equipment , you should n't badmouth your advisor to the funder . Just do your best , and if they ask you why you do n't have the equipment you need , you can tell them the honest truth : you 've asked your advisor for it and are hoping you 'll get it .
Chaired positions are generally endowed , in that the money provided for the salary , and some other benefits ( e.g. , a dedicated assistant ) or increased research funds comes from the interest on principal donated by the person or people the chair is named after , which is part of the school 's overall endowment ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Being named to a chair is a prestigious award , and in many cases it is a lifetime ( or at least , until retirement ) position . Some chaired positions are given on a rotating basis ( e.g. , for five years ) , but nonetheless it is prestigious to be named to an endowed chair . While it is not strictly true that professors in chaired positions are paid more ( because in most cases pay is negotiable ) , because universities use a combination of pay and incentives such as an endowed chair to lure highly sought-after candidates , the pay is probably on average higher than the average non-chaired full professor would have at the same institution and department . Finally , some schools use chairs at the university level ( versus the departmental or school level ) that they dole out throughout the university . The positions can therefore be used as an enabler for some departments with less money to attract particularly important faculty members that they might not have had an opportunity to attract otherwise . For a specific example of the policy for endowed chairs at one university ( Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ) , see <URL> .
From what I 've heard the NSF fellowship is not an easy one to get , and having one seems to carry some sort of prestige . Sure , the program may have accepted you on the ground that they do n't have to pay you , but the fact that you have an NSF fellowship may have changed the admission committee 's perception of your ability , which could be what tipped the balance in your favour . No matter what , there is no point in dwelling on the past . What matters is how you perform in the program now , not how you got in . Do n't be the college freshman who keeps talking about his high school athletic achievement ; truth be told , nobody cares . As for your lack of passion for the subject , I want to point out that passion usually does not precede mastery of a subject . Rather , people usually develop passion after they become good at something . So I do n't really think lacking passion at this point is a deal breaker . I 'm sure astrophysics is large enough for you to find something that you are good at and can develop a passion for . Of course , if you ca n't see yourself doing research , teaching , or anything science-related in the future , you might want to rethink about your decision to go to graduate school in the first place .
I 'm in the middle of recording lectures for a class now , and I 'm doing all the work ( recording/processing/uploading ) myself . Luckily , I like doing the technical part of it , because it is rather time intensive . I 've also taught a course that had dedicated software to take care of the entire process ( <URL> ) . I 'd walk into class , log into the system , push " Record " and lo-and-behold the videos ( with everything I had on my computer desktop at the time ) were uploaded to the site a few hours after class ( and were available live to the students who wanted to watch and participate remotely ) . So , the effort varies depending on what situation you are in at your school . If you have no supporting system ( like BB Collaborate ) , plan on at least an hour or so per class of your time ( not to mention render and upload time , which can take many hours depending on the length of your class and your Internet bandwidth ) , and this is once you get everything figured out . Oh , and that does n't include editing bells and whistles ; I basically put raw class footage online and take as little time as I can for post-processing and editing . For a self-built system , you 'll need a number of things : <URL> ( $ 200-300 will get you one ) <URL> ( $ 25 for a 32GB card ) <URL> ( $ 25 ) <URL> ( $ 150 for a decent one ) Video editing software ( I started with <URL> on my Mac ( $ 15 ) and have since graduated to <URL> ( $ 300 ) and <URL> ( $ 50 ) . I assume you already have a computer , but you 'll need that , too ( $ 500-1500 ) . ) <URL> ( Firewire or USB 3 , $ 100 for 1TB ) . This is n't strictly necessary , but you 'll find that you may run out of disk space quickly without one . A YouTube account ( free ) , with a relatively fast internet connection ( I 'm currently faced with a molasses-slow upload speed in Djibouti , Africa , so that has n't been fun ) . Make sure you verify your YouTube account so you can upload videos longer than 15 minutes . Once you get the equipment ( total cost ~ $ 1000 without the computer ) , you 'll need to learn how to use everything . You have to remember to record all your lectures , and plan on spending five minutes or so setting everything up before class , unless you have your own classroom . I simply focus the camcorder on the board and me , with a bit of room on the sides for me to move around . If you want panning and zooming , you 'll have to rely on someone else to do it . Getting up to speed with the editing software can take time , especially if you have n't done it before . You could spend months editing a 1-hour class , but as I say , if you keep it bare-bones you can get the editing down to an hour or so of your time , including setting up all the steps to upload to YouTube . I record all my videos at 1080p , but I upload to YouTube at 480p because of my slow connection ( and my students have the same slow connection ) . I find that the board is difficult to read , even though the camera is only 10 feet away -- I also upload my slideshows and try to write big ! Bottom line : either convince your school to invest in a professional system so you do n't have to do much work yourself , or plan on spending a good bit of time ( and money , if your school wo n't pay for it -- I bought everything out of my own pocket , but as I say , I 'm enjoying it ) to learn the setup and edit/upload videos .
Affiliate faculty are common in many university departments . This indicates faculty who have a departmental home ( faculty line , voting rights , tenure and promotion line , office space ) but for a variety of reasons are given courtesy appointments ( sometimes called in the USA as 0 FTE appointments ) in another department . This may be because they teach a crosslisted course or occasionally sit on doctoral committees of the other department , or occasionally just for the academic lulz ( ie , they requested an affiliation and there was no reason to deny it ) . Affiliate faculty rarely occasionally ( depending on discipline and university ) serve as chairs of doctoral committees and similarly are rarely/occasionally ( depending on discipline ) given students in that department to supervise . Their ability though to sit as members on committees is useful if you were to want to do a project in geophysics ( in this case ) but otherwise you can ignore them . Note that this is different from faculty with dual appointments where their faculty line is split ( 0.5 FTE in one department , 0.5 in another ) . They have voting and advisory rights in both departments . TL ; DR : Do n't worry about affiliate faculty . Focus on the core faculty and their strengths when making decisions .
Not necessarily . Copyright prohibits you from presenting the work as yours under any circumstances . In addition , it prohibits you from publishing or recopying large segments of the work , without securing the permission of the owner of the copyright . However , the existence of copyright does not exclude you from citing the work of others , nor mentioning what their key ideas are . Such use of copyright is covered by <URL> . Under these circumstances , though , you are still responsible for following the proper citation procedures of your university or the journal to which you are submitting the work under question . Note , however , that this is a tricky balance , and you should be careful to directly quote only the material you absolutely need to duplicate , as fair use is not an absolute guideline .
Times vary a lot between journals and , I believe , disciplines . Two months seems like a relatively long period to me but not unheard of . Out of your three reasons I would not opt for 2 or three depending , of course on the form for submitting manuscripts . If it is digital I am sure 2 and 3 would not be high on the list , if it is manual , by post or e-mail , then the likelihood is higher . I think a busy editor is one possibility . It is not clear from your question if this is " with the editor " after submission or " with the editor " after review . If we consider the former , the most likely reason , in my experience , is that it has proven hard for the editor to get reviewers to accept to review . This occasionally happens to me and I can say that it has no clear relationship to the possible quality of the paper . In the case of the former ( after review ) , the busy editor becomes a more likely candidate since the editor should study the reviews , decide on the faith of the paper , and possibly provide guidelines for your revisions . If you have any indication , from for example peers , what typical handling periods are in the journal where you submitted your manuscript , you should definitely contact the journal to ask about the status of your submission . Such requests are commonplace ( too common in fact ) so try to assess if the two months is long or normal in the case of this particular journal before contact .
end question
start question
In journals submissions , what does " Confirmation of Intent " mean ?
As @vadim123 said in the comment , this is to estimate the size of the special issue . If it were too small , the journal may decide to : make a very small special issue ; join special issues from two conferences into one ; cancel the special issue and propose acceptance of the paper through a standard process . If the special issue is too large , they would typically make it into a supplement . What should you do ? Reply yes or no for your participation in the special issue , and if yes , then the estimated length , like : " We 'll provide the full proofs while in the 10-page extended abstract there were obly sketches , it 'll be circa 20 pages long . " If they wanted more information , they would have asked for it explicitly .
Since you ask those questions , I assume you are relatively new to CS research . I do not know if you have previous research experience in any other scientific area , but let 's assume you are new to research all together . Correct me if I am wrong . When your paper gets rejected , the feeling of rejection sucks . It sucks a lot . But in research you have to deal with this rejection and move-on . It does not matter if other people 's works that you consider worse have been accepted . Maybe they are better than yours maybe not . But that is really irrelevant . Focus on your work and how to improve it . The questions you should be asking : Is this problem you are trying to solve interesting ? Is your solution substantially better than previous state-of-the-art ? Are you certain that you described related and recent literature thoroughly ? Are you up-to-date on related literature ? Did you make clear the benefits on your approach ? Is your paper well presented and written ? Have you explained your approach thoroughly ( with pseudocode , figures ) and not just with words ? Were your experiments thorough ? Did you use many datasets for your experiments ? Have you used the datasets that the related papers use or at least similar if not bigger in size and scope ? Have you compared your results with previous approaches ? Have you many charts demonstrating the various aspects of your solution ? Have you advertised your work by finding many test-cases for your problem ? If any of those answer is NO , then you must turn them to YES , before resubmitting your work . You must understand that if your paper or the problem you try to solve is boring , then it gets rejected . It is as simple as that . In that cases , the most usual reason for rejection is " not enough contribution " . So , probably it is also your presentation that needs to be fixed . Also , it seems rather strange that although you are probably new to research , you have submitted two papers at the same time . Perhaps this is too ambitious and it would be better to focus on one of them , improve it and resubmit it . Perhaps , they should be sent to different venues that are more tailored for each one of them . And last but not least . Do not worry . It gets better with time . Both the way you handle rejection and the way you write papers . So , improve what needs to be fixed and everything will work out .
Generally " archival quality " implies some level of " completeness " and comprehensiveness ( to the degree that any work of science and engineering can really be " complete . " ) In many fields , early work can be published in some conferences , but journal papers that are expected to be " archival quality " are supposed to be more mature . To quote from this <URL> : Conference papers are usually short , and deal with very recent research results or new ideas illustrated by preliminary experiments . An archival journal paper , on the contrary , contains an overview of the state-of-the-art ( with references to other 's and one 's own past work ) , a problem statement , the concept of a solution , a discussion of the theoretical background , experimental set-up , sound measurement data , an evaluation of the results , discussion and conclusions -- a much more complete presentation of the overall project and its results .
Writing an expository piece is not a research activity . Research activity in general refers to original research with things like systematic reviews and meta analysis falling into a gray area .
It 's the first conference in a series , or the conference that launches a project , or some other kind of start to something . Definition from Google : noun : kick-off a start of an event or activity . synonyms : beginning , start , commencement , launch , outset , opening " breakfast on the boat was a great kickoff to the weekend " <URL> of usage in the context of a conference ( emphasis mine ) : On September 2-4 2015 , the FIRES project was officially launched with the kick off meeting and conference organized in Berlin , in the Science and Technology Park in Adlershof .
Try to recollect how the statuses changed when you submitted the paper the first time . Scenario 1 : with editor/under editor evaluation >> awaiting reviewer selection >> under review If this is how the status had changed the first time you submitted the paper , then chances are that your paper is actually being sent for a re-review . Scenario 2 : awaiting reviewer selection >> under review If this was the way the status had changed , then it is possible that the online status tracking software uses the status " awaiting reviewer selection " to indicate that the paper is with the editor .
I do n't think this is quite true in Germany either - or at least not in the generality that I read into your question . Here is <URL> ( Promotionsordnung ( PhD bylaws ) for psychology and sport , Muenster ) , and another randomly selected <URL> ( Promotionsordnung math , Bonn ) . Both stipulate much more restrictive conditions that relate to your question . They somewhat overlap , but not completely - so there is also no uniform answer for Germany . Simply stepping away from a PhD early on would not be a problem in either case . The restrictions on the number of attempts to be successfully awarded a PhD are as follows : Example 1 : you get one and one only attempt to resubmit a declined thesis , and to re-take the oral defense each Example 2 : no restrictions are mentioned on the number of failed thesis attempts . You get one attempt to re-take a failed defense In particular given that even these two sources do n't agree , you just need to pull your program 's Promotionsordnung , and confirm which rules apply to you .
Here you go : prof is short for professor . dr is short for doctor , which signifies either MD or PhD . dr. h. c. stands for doctoratus honoris causa , which is an honorary title . ir stands for engineer ( ingenieur ) . In this case it means a professor ( with a PhD ) with an engineering background , who got an honorary title at some point .
This means that the paper was presented to the members of society who were present at the meeting noted . I am more familiar with this language in much older papers . I believe its use here is a holdover from a time when paper would be presented by a Fellow of the society ( who may have been the author of the paper , or otherwise ) to the assembled members of the society . For example , neither Darwin nor Wallace were present at the 1848 meeting of the Linnean Society at which their joint papers were presented ; instead the papers were read by secretary John Bennett .
A " fake " or " shady " journal is a low-quality journal that does little or no quality control . They are often called " predatory " because they prey on people who are under a lot of pressure to publish , charging high author fees for promises of quick publication . ( Since they do little , if any , peer review , the time from submission of a paper to publication is often very quick in these journals ) . They often engage in deceptive practices to make themselves appear legitimate , such as : Pretending to be affiliated with a reputable professional society Claiming an " impact factor " when they do not have one , or when they have an " impact factor " from some entity other than Thomson Reuters ISI Listing important academics on their editorial board , when these people never agreed to serve in this capacity . Publishing in one of these journals can be very damaging to your academic career . At best , it shows that you do n't know what journals are considered reputable in your field ; at worst , it makes you look like you are trying to " get " publications without doing the work required to publish in a reputable , high-quality journal . An academic librarian named Jeffrey Beall keeps a list of open-access <URL> and <URL> that he considers to be " predatory . " His lists are quite well-known - you may hear people refer to " Beall 's List " when talking about predatory journals . Between the growth of open-access and the Internet making it possible for literally anyone to start a " journal , " these " journals " have been popping up at an alarming rate . The NY Times even ran a <URL> about it recently .
At least at the universities in Paris where I took courses , there is a strong distinction between the first and second master year . In the first year you still take general courses in a variety of topics , whereas in the second year you really specialise . Someone explained to me that this is a remnant of how it was a while ago : first 4 years of undergraduate ( which is now 3 years of bachelor , then the first year of the master ) , then 4 years of graduate ( second year of master and 3 years of PhD ) . I know that some of my friends in physics had something which could be called a research position at the master 2 level , i.e. they were integrated in the research group , doing some type of research , whilst not yet being PhD students . So no , it should not be a second master degree , it should mean that you are in the second year of your master .
In short , tenure means that you can not be fired ( you have a very permanent position ) . For more details , look at this question : <URL> In particular , look at the first link in the <URL> to that question , which is an article in Science that talks about the role of tenure .
Lower is definitely better . For example , the " Common Application " which is used for applying to undergraduate schools is pretty clear that 1 % is good . <URL> The same generally holds for graduate school applications . You should ask the recommender to try to change it and , if she is unable , she should contact the admissions committee directly . A top 50 percent ranking will almost surely lead to you not being accepted . If your reference writer is so unfamiliar with the US system , you may want to consider asking someone else . There is an art to writing good recommendation letters . For example , it is reasonable for a recommender to rate the " intellect " , " communication ability " , etc. as being top 1 % even if the student is ranked 2/60 since there is a difference between class rank and " intellect " , " communication ability " , etc. . In fact , differentiating between the two is the whole point of the recommendation letter . If the recommender is unable to change the letter at this point , it is much better to put in a phone call/email to the chair of graduate admissions than a phone call/letter to the university . In my experience the central administration is useless and you need to get to whoever is actually looking at the applications . It is critical that the recommender , and not the applicant , makes this call/email .
They refer to the number of classes you teach in each semester . ie 2:1 would mean two classes one semester and one the other . Three numbers ( like 3:2:3 ) refer to the number of classes in each quarter for schools on the quarter system ( i.e. , three terms per academic year ) . [ Thanks to Mark Meckes ] Not all courses are the same size , although I suspect that the vast majority are the standard " 3 credit hour " size . A minority but reasonable number of courses , though , are 4 credit hours ( particularly in my area , math ) . A few courses are even 5 credit hours at some institutions . It depends on the field to a great extent . Nevertheless , the number of courses is still very important . Teaching a four-hour and a five-hour course for a 2-course load is less work , usually , than teaching three different 3-hour courses . [ Thanks to Oswald Veblen ]
First a disclaimer : I personally do not agree with some " ways of life " I am going to describe and already upvoted other answers :-) . is it possible to be a researcher without concerning about " Publish or perish " ? YES , albeit probably only in atypical settings . firstly , at this site , we tend to forget that academia is not only the first league of the few top-notch research universities , but includes a MASS of smaller universities and research institutes in all sorts of small , hidden corners of the world which tend either not to produce academic output in terms of journal articles , books , conference papers , etc. , but at which they live and breath by e.g. , primarily education , local politics , etc. . Yet , on paper they claim to do research , so working there , you would be officially a researcher . I am speaking for instance about universities in countries , where rigorous science and high education , for whatever reasons , does not have a very strong tradition . At such places , doing research would resemble a kind of a <URL> . Most often , at least at some stage in the career , you still need to publish something . E.g. a dissertation would probably suffice . But often an interview with such a researcher in a local newspaper would count at the place more than a first-class academic journal . Being coined an expert on X by the local media a single time would allow you to survive at such a university for a decade ( at any level from a PhD student to a Full Professor ) without being concerned with perishing . If there is a desperate lack of teaching staff , then you do not have to care even for being any good teacher either and you would n't perish . I know personally people who are are doing some research ( or at least everybody around says so ) for decades without moving from a place and without publishing even a technical report and do not perish . to a more optimistic note , though being pedantic now , you can easily be a researcher and not publish in the industry . Many industrial researchers do not primarily work for the benefit of the humankind ( as you could see said in academia ) , but for the benefit of a company . finally , I speculate there could be some special professorship positions where you do not have to worry about publishing anymore , because you are not about to perish anymore .
Universities typically consider such intent statements to be binding . If you submit these statements to multiple universities , they will all hold seats for you , seats which could otherwise go to someone from their waiting list . This hurts those other applicants . It is also a serious inconvenience to the department 's admissions committee , as they need to meet their enrollment targets as closely as possible ; failure to do so can affect their funding , and in extreme cases , the survival of the graduate program . So this is at least inconsiderate on your part , and arguably unethical . If the institutions find out that you have done this , it is possible that they may rescind their acceptances ; this is uncommon but has been known to happen . In addition , you would certainly forfeit any deposits that you paid . At the undergraduate level , where deposits are almost always required ( in the US ) , this practice is called " double depositing " . The National Association for College Admission Counseling , in their " <URL> " , says : Colleges view dual or multiple deposits by students as serious violations of trust and may revoke a previous offer of admission from any student who is found to have sent tuition deposits to more than one college . My advice is this : at this point , you should plan on attending the university X to which you 've announced your intent . However , if you are absolutely convinced that doing so would be a huge mistake ( not merely that you think Y is a little bit better ) , then you could contact the admissions committee at X , explain your reasons , apologize , and ask to be released from your agreement . If you do this , you should do it as soon as possible ( ideally within days - do n't stew about it for two weeks ) , and know that it will probably burn your bridges with X , as well as forfeiting your deposit . If X says it 's all right ( they probably will - if you do n't want to be there , they do n't want you there ) , then you could send your intent to Y . Some people might argue that you are also ethically obligated to inform Y of the situation . I think it 's kind of a gray area , myself . You might also discuss the matter with an advisor or other professor at your current institution . They might offer some perspective on X that would help reassure you . In general , most people say that it is n't so crucial which institution you attend , within reason - your own skills and motivation are a much greater factor in your success .
If a paper is published in a very good journal ( one that is sufficiently good that it does n't need to accept boring papers to fill issues ) , that means somebody ( reviewer , editor ) thought its contributions would be interesting , novel , and/or useful to a nontrivial subset of the journal 's audience . But , this does n't mean that the paper is interesting to everyone . ( Very few papers are ! ) For example , I usually find papers that say " We applied a known technique to optimize problem X for some metric Y " very boring , but others in my field appreciate these contributions . In some cases , you may find the paper uninteresting because you either understood less than the reviewer or more than the reviewer . It often takes some knowledge of the field to really appreciate the contribution a paper is making . In most journals , the authors are allowed to assume that the reader already has some field-specific knowledge . If you read the paper without understanding this context , it will probably seem boring or not useful to you . It works the other way as well . Sometimes , a reviewer reads a paper and thinks , " This is an important contribution , " but those with more knowledge understand that it is n't . For really good journals , the editor can usually find a reviewer who understands the field well , so this ( ideally ) does n't happen as often . I am sure somebody can think of a paper that was accepted only for e.g. , political reasons , and is genuinely , objectively unimportant . These are rare enough that I do n't think these are the papers you are asking about .
This may vary by field ; my experience is in mathematics . Most US students start a PhD program immediately after finishing their bachelor 's degree , so they apply during the last year of their undergraduate program . It is less common to complete a separate master 's first , especially in the sciences where PhD students are funded and masters students are typically not . The first couple of years of a PhD program are usually coursework similar to a masters program ( you would probably be able to skip some or most of these courses , if they are comparable to what you have taken ) . Therefore , the US students with whom you are competing are mainly undergraduates in the last year of their bachelors program . At this level a few of them may have published papers , but most will not . They may have research experience from summer projects , summer internships , independent study or lab work , but it is not usually comparable to graduate research . Very few of them will have any formal teaching experience ; at most they may have worked as teaching assistants , which usually means grading homework . Some of them may have taken a few graduate-level courses at their undergraduate university , but not to the full extent of a masters degree . So I do n't think you need to be concerned about your level of preparation or experience in comparison with US applicants . If anything , you should be ahead . As mentioned in comments , at a major US research department there should be people who have either come from UK universities or have experience with them . If they are not already on the graduate admissions committee , the committee members will consult with them if they have questions . Good luck !
The way I use this term , " priority " means " who had this idea first " . Of course , everyone can come up and say " hey , I totally had this idea to determine graph isomorphism in quasipolynomial time in 1990 " , so it is difficult to validate a priority claim unless there is some written material to back it up . But intellectual priority is the former concept ; publication dates are just an imperfect way to measure it . In fields where research is routinely disseminated before formal publication ( using arXiv , preprints , or conferences ) , such as mathematics , there are ( in my opinion ) fewer possibilities for issues such as " X had the idea one year before Y , but Y 's paper was published earlier " or " Y was a peer reviewer and scooped X 's idea " .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a PhD degree and a DSc degree ?
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
In the European Credit Transfer System ( <URL> ) one credit point equals 25-30 hours of workload and you are supposed to do 30 credits per semester or 60 per year . The number of ECTS credits assigned to a particular class is not directly related to the hours in class but to the total workload for the class . For example , the master thesis is worth 30 ECTS in most German universities , yet there is 0 class time for it . On the other hand , I once took a chemistry lab course with 6 credits = > 150-180 hours workload of which 120 hours where time spent in the lab , which was ok because you ca n't really do much at home except finishing that day 's writeup and taking a look at what is planned for the next day . In your examples , subtract the class time and you 're left with around 180-240 hours of self study ( reviewing the material , doing homework assignments ) for the first three classes and half that for the last one - so the 9 credit classes seem to involve more self study and less time in class . That 's perfectly fine as long as the overall workload is between 25 * credits and 30 * credits hours . Since your university is in France , I want to mention that France has specified the workload for 1 ETCS credit point to be 29 hours .
The text in Nature states Submission to Nature [ ... ] is taken to imply that there is no significant overlap between the submitted manuscript and any other papers from the same authors under consideration or in press elsewhere . ( Abstracts or unrefereed web preprints do not compromise novelty ) . The authors must include copies of all related manuscripts with any overlap in authorship that are under consideration or in press elsewhere . If a related manuscript is submitted elsewhere while the manuscript is under consideration at Nature Communications , a copy of the related manuscript must be sent to the editor . In other words , related manuscript files means any other manuscript that overlaps with the one submitted to Nature and hence runs the risk of duplicating the Nature paper in some sense . Nature assesses such papers to see where and how the overlap occurs and , probably , rejects the submitted manuscript is the overlap is deemed significant to that it may be considered duplication . This is likely to safeguard the uniqueness of the Nature paper when ( and if ) it becomes published .
Many universities in the US have policies that prevent students with a 3 year bachelor 's degree from applying for graduate admission . To get into one of those programs you would have to complete at least one more year of study before being admitted to the graduate program .
The University of Cambridge 's <URL> recognizes a " Licenciado with an overall grade of between 8 and 9 out of 10 " as " At least a 2i honours degree from a UK university or an equivalent standard from an overseas university " , but also says that it 's equivalent to a Singaporean Master 's degree . I 'd guess that most universities would consider it definitely equivalent to a Bachelors and probably also a Masters degree .
" Docent " or " D " or " gepromoveerd docent " is a teaching-only position ( or with a minimum amount of research time , like 20 % ) , while a " Universitair Docent " or " UD " is someone who has much more research time ( e.g. , 40 % ) . Also , there are much more tenured UD 's ( " UD met een vast contract " ) than tenured D 's . After I finished my PhD , I was docent for a year ( basically because I did not get an UD position ) , basically teaching a lot , then I became UD , and now I 'm a tenured UD . While there are some exceptions , a rule of thumb could be that a D-position is a teaching-only and often something temporarily , while a UD position is something that can be potentially permanent and involves research time .
There are some differences , especially in the concept of the programs M.Eng . / M.Tech . and M.Sc ( and M.A. obviously too ) . From my experience , and <URL> states this also , the M.Eng . / M.Tech . degrees are rather given by Universities of Applied Sciences ( at least in Germany , Canada , Finland etc , ) and seldomly by Universities focusing on research . Any program that is research oriented will thus very likely give M.Sc . degrees . The M.Eng . is even given as an undergraduate Master in the UK ( see the Wikipedia Link ) that gets granted immediately ( without a bachelors in between ) . For the career of a graduate , the title itself is not too important as aeismail mentioned , since any employer will have a look at what 's inside ( = the student track record ) . Because there are so many slightly different programs , especially in computer/information engineering/technology/sciences I am not sure where universities draw the line regarding the " not granting a 2nd masters degree in the same field/area/discipline " policy .
I looked at your other questions , which were quite enlightening . Given that you had already publicly revealed other relevant facts about yourself , e.g. <URL> , I do n't know why you did n't include them in your question . Any such details are highly pertinent , and would help people give better and more " customized " answers . To summarize from your previous question , you are 32 , live in Bangladesh , have an IT background , work in a bank , and are afraid your job is taking you nowhere . I 'm Indian , and left India to study in both the UK and the US , at different times . So my background is not so dissimilar , and I can relate to some extent . However , the fact remains that your question is so broad that it is difficult to give useful information without knowing you . Given that you are from Bangladesh , I 'm guessing that part of your interest in further studies abroad is to get away from Bangladesh . Also , there are presumably not that many routes out of Bangladesh besides being a student . If so , I sympathize . However , from your previous question it sounds like you were planning to get a degree locally before going abroad . If so , it sounds like your question might be premature . If you are n't currently associated with a university or already have a relevant higher degree , then going abroad as a student would be very difficult . Are you still planning to enroll in a local Master 's program ? Or have you decided to go for a Master 's degree abroad ? The answer by shane , I think , covers some of the issues you will probably run into as an Asian student in the West . How good or bad a situation you find it depends on a complex set of factors including : Your area of study Your university and location The local community from your area/country . ( Assuming you get on well with people from your background ) How successful you are at your subject What kind of advisor you end up with How much you dislike your native country . If you really dislike it , you may have an easier time adjusting to a foreign culture . If you happen to be from a very " sheltered " background , which is not uncommon in traditional Asian cultures , then living away from your family and culture could be good for you . In many ways the West ( which it seems you are contemplating ) is much more open culturally then a place like Bangladesh . However , how you respond will be up to you . You may find it frightening rather than empowering . In my case , I was from a sheltered background , and had a difficult time . Grad education is a rough business , and study abroad is not for the faint-hearted . However , I can say that I do not regret it at all . It was ( I think ) very good for me . I learned to be much more confident and independent . I am now quite a different person than the person I would have been if I never left India . Having said that , as shane says , grad school is n't the ideal way to go about self-improvement , if you have a choice . Of course , as I have observed above , you may not have a choice .
Yes , you 're right , " starting research " prior to an adequate basic education can result in huge wastes of time . But it also makes little sense to " wait a few years " until all the required coursework is done . And , yes , even then , one is not over-educated . Seriously , I think ( and recommend to my students ) that they maintain several different threads . The two main ones are attention to standard core material and more advanced courses , while also trying to skip forward to read about current events . The trickier third thread is trying to back-fill from current events to " standard material " , as needed . Almost any choice of " single thread " seems misguided .
I can speak for Austria ( place where I did my PhD ) and Switzerland ( current place of employment ) , but my answer should be applicable for Germany as well . I wonder what is the Phd application process for Germany and Switzerland . Are there scholarships offered ? Is there a need for scholarship at all , or do you get paid as an researched directly from the institution where you get the Phd postion ? Both models exist , but the far more common one is that you are just employed as a researcher while doing your PhD . This has advantages and disadvantages . Typically these positions are financially rather attractive ( at least as far as PhD student salaries go ) , currently at about 2400 EUR 14 times a year in Austria for full-time employment , a bit more in Germany , significantly more ( around 5000 CHF 12 times a year ) in Switzerland . All of these salaries allow you to conveniently live ( no need for a diet of <URL> ) in the respective places . On the other hand , as a researcher you are not " just " working on your thesis . In addition , teaching has to be handled , support in administrative matters will be part of your job , and you will need to work on matters of your research project that you find neither interesting nor advance your thesis work in any way . The application process is generally as for any other job - find out what jobs are offered , contact the person per mail , send in CV , ( usually ) do an interview via Skype , wait for an offer . The hardest part is probably finding out what research groups currently have job openings . Positions are generally not announced very widely ( if at all ) . However , just because you can not find an ad for an open position with a specific professor does not necessarily mean that he does not have a position available . Both places that I worked at had open positions almost at all times for a really qualified student . What really helps here are connections - do you know somebody who is already an " insider " in academic circles , maybe a PhD student or postdoc ? If so , ask him to put you in contact with some faculty . If not , look for universities that you might consider joining , find out from their web page what faculty there handles your topic , and send them a short mail . Keep it crisp - both of my professors so far have been insanely busy , and any mail from an unknown person with more than one short paragraph will never be read carefully . Just tell who you are , what your current university is , and that you would like to talk about the possibility of doing a PhD . Give them a week to answer and then send a quick and friendly reminder ( my current prof is the dean of the faculty , and given the size of his inbox mails sometimes do get lost - that does not mean that he is necessarily not interested ) . Maybe , the professor will put you in contact with one of this postdocs or PhD students to " chat " via Skype or in person ( if possible ) - consider this the technical interview , because afterwards the prof will ask the person that you talked to whether they think that you have the technical skills that are required for the selected field . What you should not do is send an overly long formal application - most professors get many of those from rather dubios applicants from the far east , hence formal blind applications are generally discarded unread . Do n't be one of those . is there a need to search and find for a supervisor ( or professor ) , and explain him the idea for the research that you are planning to work on ... or do you get the position and work on the topics which are treated in that research group . my question is both for Swiss and DE ? You are generally not expected to " come " with your own topic . Your broad overall theme will be defined by whatever project / position pays your salary , and on top of that you are expected to define your concrete research project together with a postdoc and/or the professor some time into your PhD ( say , about a year after starting ) . What you should know is roughly what interests you research-wise and contact only professors that really do this research . This sounds like a given , but I work in services and software engineering , and I have lost track of many applicants interested in robotics , AI , formal methods , etc. . I have already discarded . Do n't be one of those , either .
Faculty do not ask and students do not tell what they wearing under the robes . Actually , I find that since graduations are in May , the robes are often swelteringly hot ( especially PhD robes ) in many parts of North America , so the lighter the clothes and the more sweat-resistant and breathable the better . Women can get away with wearing summer dresses . From what I can ascertain ( remembering the Do n't Ask/Don ' t Tell rule above ) , male students tend to wear khakis and comfortable dress shirts underneath . No need to wear long-sleeves if it 's going to be hot . Many students often change into other clothes for the receptions after graduation -- men into longer pants and a sport jacket , women don a light jacket or change into more formal attire . They often keep a change of clothes in their parent 's car or in their advisor 's office if the dorms are shut . tl ; dr : It 's your graduation . No need to be uncomfortable .
I managed to get some more information on this from William Gunn ( <URL> ) , Director of Scholarly Communications at Elsevier . So not an official legal statement from a patent lawyer , as he notes himself , but a plain-English explanation from someone familiar with publishing and who has had a chance to ask the people involved , which is pretty much everything I could have wanted . Short Twitter-transcript follows ( stripping out Twitter tags ; otherwise as written ) ; I 'll probably try to come up with a better way to format this later . @MrGunn : " The Elsevier legal team says this just covers our implementation &amp; is defensive . " ( <URL> ) @MrGunn : " IOW [ in other words ] , not to be used to sue anyone else , just to prevent us from getting ripped off " ( <URL> ) Me : " Thanks , that 's helpful . So what makes system distinct ? How do you tell if ripped off ? " ( <URL> ) @MrGunn : " ( making room ) It 's common for software companies to patent their implementations of a more general process . That 's all this is . " ( <URL> ) Me : " thanks - that helps . So it would only be enforced if someone literally copied the Elsevier code and tried to pass it off as theirs ? " ( <URL> ) Me : " Well , not necessarily line-for-line , but if you had reasonable suspicion that they 'd used the Elsevier system as a starting point ? " ( <URL> ) @MrGunn : " Enforceability of software patents is not a subject I know very much about , but I would guess so . " ( <URL> ) So it 's not intended to cover the general process of cascade reviewing , but only the specific implementation used by Elsevier .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
I do n't think there can be any studies to confirm or deny something like that , simply because neither " good teacher " nor " good researcher " can be quantified objectively without bias , and in the absence of that , how can you compare ? But qualitatively , I think the conclusion naturally follows in most cases - both require one to be enthusiastic about their subject in the first place , and require a certain depth of comprehension before they can either publish their results or interact with inquisitive students successfully !
By " I see things like , " I assume you mean " the options are , " i.e. , the list of options you have given is exhaustive . I shall also assume that you are an engineering student , with a degree at " Bachelor of science " level and you are currently studying at " Master 's of science " level . The question about academic background is looking for your highest qualification , so I would list " master 's of science . " You could call the university to confirm ! EDIT . I do not agree with <URL> remark that a UK MEng degree is provided in lieu of a Bachelor 's and has the same study length : UK BEng degrees are typically three years , whereas UK MEng degrees are typically four years . It is possible that <URL> is attempting to compare Bachelor 's degrees between different countries .
If you 're asking about graduate school in the US , probably the single most significant thing you can do is to take the <URL> ( not the math section of the general test ! ) , and score well on it . This test covers a broad spectrum of material that is taught in a typical undergraduate math curriculum , and so if you get a good score , it strongly supports your claim that you have the level of mathematics knowledge required to enter grad school . Without that key piece of evidence ( i.e. a good GRE subject score ) , graduate admissions committees are likely to look at your statement that you have the knowledge to take graduate courses , contrast it with your lack of an undergraduate degree , and conclude that you 're full of hot air , so to speak . Now , of course there is more that has to be done to actually get yourself admitted . In my own field of theoretical physics , even a 990 ( the top score ) on the GRE is n't enough to get you into a good grad school by itself . I would imagine the same is true for the top schools in math , though perhaps at a less competitive school , it might be . But I think to be safe , you should assume that you 'll have to present some other sort of evidence of accomplishment that could be viewed as equivalent to an undergraduate transcript . You 'll also need recommendation letters and various sorts of essays and forms . But a lot of that can vary from school to school , and is more likely to be negotiable if you talk to someone in the department . The GRE subject score is the one thing you really need to get your foot in the door , so to speak .
A review paper is likely also known as a " survey paper " , where you read ( i.e. survey ) related works in the field and then comment on them . Usually , a review paper should be able to contribute a small amount of knowledge in its own right to the field by providing a taxonomy of work . Another type of paper that reviews extensively related work but is n't actually a review paper is a <URL> in which you usually ask a meta-question about the field . If it appears in a refereed , peer-reviewed journal , then yes , it is a publication . In fact , if done well , these works can often have pretty high impact and can be cited very frequently . However , as already noted , since they do n't usually involve substantial original research they need to be augmented with traditional research papers . If a graduate student has only survey papers or systematic review papers , I 'd wonder as a search committee reviewer if this student did nothing but read related work rather than working on research . With respect to MS or PhD applications , I 'd think that the fact that you have a publication at all is already a bonus point for you . Most students who apply to these programs do n't have publications .
Canada is different from the USA , in that direct entry for a PhD after a bachelors degree is rare . The typical path is a bachelors , followed by two year masters , followed by four to five years for a PhD . As far as I know , no typical Canadian PhD program also grants a masters , as in Canada , it 's sort of implied that you already had one going into the PhD . This is of course , based on my understanding of the sciences : Humanities and Engineering may vary . EDIT : One note about courses : Course requirements vary dramatically from program to program , university to university . Some will require relatively few courses , others , many more .
The main difference is that research MS degrees require a thesis , which describes the student 's research , while professional/taught MS degrees do not . There are several secondary differences as well . Professional/taught MS programs are cash cows ; their enrollments are generally higher , their admissions criteria are generally lower , they almost never offer financial support , and students are generally treated like cattle . Research MS programs generally have smaller enrollment , because the students require more individual attention , and therefore higher admission standards ; some research MS programs offer financial support in the form of assistantships or even fellowships . In many departments , there is an easy transition from a research MS program into the PhD program ; transitioning from a professional/taught MS program into a PhD program is almost impossible . Of course , these answers are very crude approximations . The actual difference will vary significantly between departments .
end question
start question
What 's in a ' vita ' ?
This is simply shorthand for curriculum vitae , also called a CV or resume . He 's just asking you to send him your resume so he can list stuff you 've done when writing your letter .
I have n't seen any statistics on how many tenure professors have been fired , but most articles on the topic treat tenure as though it 's a lifetime position ( e.g. , <URL> ) . Anecdotally , you will likely never meet someone who knows someone else who was fired from a tenure position ; it simply does n't happen . Note , however , that the number of tenure track positions made available over the past decade been trending downward fairly significantly ( see the same article , and simply do a <URL> to see more ) .
Good grades can help , but they are n't the be all and end all . If you put together a great CV and have positive references then you 've got a good chance of gaining an interview . More important than grades I think is simply showing that you are , and will be , a good researcher . Not every great academic was a hotshot from Harvard in their undergrad years . And not everyone with a perfect GPA from Harvard would make a good academic . I can tell you from personal experience that you do n't need amazing grades to get a PhD scholarship . Just put your best foot forward in proving that you 're an excellent researcher and go for gold .
There are two types of publications in Computer Science : Publications in peer-reviewed conferences with published proceedings Publications in journals If you present your results at a conference or workshop but do n't publish them in the conference proceedings -- it 's not a publication . In general , publications in top tier conferences are much more important than journal publications for computer science researchers . Usually you can first publish your paper in conference proceedings and then submit it to a journal but not the other way around ( though , of course , that depends on conference and journal policies ) .
I am a former ' pass ' Part III student . I am going to be blunt here , as I feel emotionally attached to your case and I know why you may feel frustrated ( it may be due to the typical atmosphere that part III students are supplied ) . Part III is just a course that people want to show-off in their CVs ( only one final exam at the end of the year , busy professors , for no particular reason unhealthily competitive students ) . Nobody has ever asked me what my grades were in Part III . Never . I am a Ph.D. , did postdocs and am finalizing a good academic job . All that matters is your hard work in your research . Forget about the scores in Part III . If research is what you want to do in the coming years , just do it without thinking about part III results . You may end up proving that the Part III degree does n't make any difference in anyone 's life for better or worse !
Usually , the scheme of a scientific study has a hourglass shape scheme , from wide , to narrow , and wide again . In the first wide , we use the introduction to describe the general topography and bring focus to a particular problem . Then we narrow down to describe how our experiment is designed , data are collected , analysis is done , etc. . When results are ready , we interpret them , and then again widen up the scope to talk about implications , applications , and recommendations in the Discussion section . In my opinion , objectives are a list of actions to perform , or questions to answer so that you can complete the narrow part of the study scheme . Contributions are a list of applications or significance to other researchers that brought about by your work , and they are perhaps more fitting in the second wider part of the study scheme . For instance , the objective of a project could be " to validate a low cost blood glucose measurement device . " And if it is indeed valid , the contribution could be " allow more people to afford to measure their glucose , and potentially lead to better diabetes control in the population . "
Having a qualified reader provide more than superficial corrections to an admissions essay is a valuable asset , and one which is almost certainly required for top tier institutions . Many American students are literally surrounded by qualified readers with diverse perspectives , while international students may have fewer contacts with the requisite mastery of the language . If the only competent advice a student can obtain is from a paid reader , they are still only narrowing the gap with their American peers . I think there are only two ethical arguments to consider here . First , is the paid service worth anything ? If the criticism and corrections are junk and the service does not increase any student 's chances at all and the service provider should reasonably be aware of this , then it 's clearly unethical . Second , does the contribution of the reader go substantially beyond what an American student would receive ? Specifically , do the contributions of the paid readers potentially cross the line to misrepresent the abilities of the applicant ? If the submitted essays are not representative of the , as you put it , story and voice but also of the English competence of the student , it could be a disservice both to universities and to inadequately prepared students . If you are clear of these two issues , I see no ethical complaints . Of course , a generous person might donate their time , but that does n't make a student who needs to earn a living unethical .
Vita means life . Vitae is the genitive ( possessive ) form , of life . Curriculum means something like course . So Curriculum vitae means the course of one 's life , and makes good sense . Vita by itself also makes good sense , though it 's perhaps less accurate as a description of the document in question . Neither curriculum vita nor vitae without curriculum makes sense . Addition , suggested by Patricia Shanahan : All the words in bold italic are Latin .
It never hurts to specifically check with your undergraduate advisor and the desired graduate school 's admission office just to make sure . My understanding is that as long as your current university acknowledges your completion of the undergraduate program ( regardless of whether you physically have the Bachelor degree certificate or not ) prior to you officially beginning your graduate program , then there should be no problem . But like I said , you should check in with your undergrad advisor so that they can inform you of any lingering policies or concerns .
I think what you know and how strong your recommendation letters are the most important factors during the application process . Usually people need to take several foundamental courses to have a solid background before conducting research in math . And you also need to have some undergraduate research experience . So a degree in math is the most efficient way to get this . But it can also be achieved even though you do n't have a degree in math . My undergraduate degree is business administration but I have taken around 20 math courses including 10 analysis courses and several algebra and geometry courses during my undergraduate study . Currently I am going to start a research master program in pde and applied analysis and I hope I can do research in math in the future . So yes , you can . But you need to make extra effort to fill up the gaps .
Papers published in ( reputable ) journals are reviewed by other scientists ( peer review ) , which usually makes it considerably more difficult to publish a paper there . By contrast papers on the ArXiv only receive a brief inspection to keep out utter crap . Thus , most academic evaluations consider only peer-reviewed publications or value them considerably higher . Moreover , often only peer-reviewed papers are considered citable , in particular for purposes of backing up your claims . This may extend to papers that are considered certain to be eventually peer-reviewed  , but this is unlikely to apply to your paper . As being cited ( by peer-reviewed papers ) is another important academic evaluation metric , this is another advantageous aspect of journal publications . As a sidenote : There are a lot of physics journals where you can publish without a fee .  in particular in fast-moving fields or fields with long peer review such as parts of mathematics
An editor once " requested " that I submit a " tracked changes " or latexdiff version of my resubmission if I wanted him to deal with it in a timely fashion . Since then , my strategy has been to submit : revised manuscript ( no annotation ) ; latexdiff of revisions against version submitted last time , to highlight every last comma changed ; cover letter , describing all scientific changes plus any major textual changes ( " we substantially rewrote the methods section in an attempt to improve its clarity " ) . I refer the editor to the diff for minor textual corrections . No editor has complained yet ... ;)
I slightly prefer attachments . The problem is that I 'm reluctant to reply to e-mails asking for more information , or even to show up on server logs following links , because it may be interpreted as a sign of interest . Like most faculty members ( at least in technical areas ) , I get enormous numbers of junk e-mails regarding PhD positions or summer research . The general pattern is that they are form letters sent to large numbers of people , almost all of whom ignore the letters . If anyone replies in anything but the most discouraging way , then it inspires a potentially lengthy e-mail exchange that will probably just waste everyone 's time . This is a real problem , and I do n't know what to do about it . It 's not really fair , but right now the burden is on applicants to stand out from the junk e-mails . In particular , your e-mail should provide compelling proof that you spent at least as long thinking about it and writing it as you expect the faculty member to spend on it . If it looks like it could be a form letter with the professor 's name and research topic pasted in , then I 'll ignore it , as will many other people . [ I should point out that I work in a department with centralized admissions , so I can not accept students on my own . This is explained on my web page and the department 's . ] For example , a clearly personalized e-mail that discusses the professor 's research in detail is good . Keep in mind that plenty of people are trying to cheat with this . For example , I regularly receive e-mails saying something like " I found your paper X fascinating when we read it in our seminar " , with no further details . This looks like a form letter , and there have been a couple of times when I 've received e-mails from the same sender that were identical except for having different paper titles pasted in , with no indication that they had previously e-mailed me about another paper . Maybe a few e-mails are genuine , but they sure look like lies . So when I get an e-mail regarding PhD admissions or summer research , I 'm very skeptical that it 's more than spam . There 's a five or ten second window to convince me that it 's different from the other e-mails , before I set it aside . If it looks promising , then I 'll read further , and I 'm a little more likely to do so if any information I need is available right there . So I 'd recommend attaching whatever is needed .
This may depend on your field and its customs . In mathematics , it 's totally acceptable and happens constantly . However , if the conference publishes proceedings ( only a few math conferences do ) , you should not publish the same paper in the proceedings . Some people use the proceedings paper to write a " survey article " intended to give the reader a broad view of their work and other related developments in the field , but they would usually not consider this to be an original research paper . In other fields , where a conference talk is considered to be like a publication it its own right , this might not be acceptable .
Well , what I wrote was partly humor , partly serious : " I would like to thank : Prof. [ my adviser ] for his advice and support throughout the thesis work , Prof. [ ] for his patience as I mis-implemented his design , [ ] for his assistance in selecting components , the [ lab and department ] for computer time , [ ] , whose Masters thesis provided the format I have adopted , the manufacturers of [ caffeinated beverages ] for their stimulating ideas , E. Gary Gygax for giving me something to kill , and the States of Alaska and Confusion . " I think you 're overthinking this . Any polite statement crediting those who have made a significant contribution to the project will be fine . Suggestion : see if your school maintains copies of past theses in their library , read through a few to see what other people have done , and adopt what seems useful from those .
That depends on the graduate school , and the competition . So it is hard to say . However , giving talks is part of the day to day life in academia . So getting practice early wo n't hurt once you are in the graduate school .
This is not a situation that calls for subtlety . I recommend adding large bold capital letters across the top of the first page : PRELIMINARY VERSION -- DO NOT CITE OR DISTRIBUTE I would also include a footnote at the bottom of the title page indicating where the final version will be made available .
I had a similar case , though my incomplete Master 's came before a completed Master 's in an entirely different field . Any gaps or oddities in your past are questioned . In my case , I had not completed a Master 's in Biology , left , worked for a few years , finished a Master 's in Computer Science , and then got a much better job . Do not remove that entry about being a PhD student . It can potentially come back to bite you down the road if it is found during a background check/re-evaluation , as you are purposely concealing potentially vital information . Instead , prepare to be asked why you are leaving the PhD program during your interview phase . I am not sure of your reasons , but you should be able to bounce your answer off any friends and supportive colleagues to see if they are convinced . Also , consider contacting a technical recruiter to go over your application to evaluate your portfolio . That will help you narrow down any other potential issues with your resume .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
The University of Cambridge 's <URL> recognizes a " Licenciado with an overall grade of between 8 and 9 out of 10 " as " At least a 2i honours degree from a UK university or an equivalent standard from an overseas university " , but also says that it 's equivalent to a Singaporean Master 's degree . I 'd guess that most universities would consider it definitely equivalent to a Bachelors and probably also a Masters degree .
end question
start question
Doubts about writing research paper ?
Definitely not the whole code . It is a conference-specific and depends on the conference area . If the paper is more data related ( which is the case in Data Mining field for instance ) you are required at least to comment on the data usage and from where you get it . If your paper is about a new web system usually referring to it in the text will be helpful . It is not required but highly recommended since they will be able to provide a constructive criticism for your work . You do not need to know them very well and usually they will be happy to help students . Generally , students ( specially undergraduates ) publish papers with the help of a faculty member in the school . This said , there is nothing limit them to publish by their own . It is just more helpful to you to be attached to one of the faculty members and do research under his/her guidance .
Frustrating as it is , this is something that happens to many authors at some point , and the simplest solution is to shrug and move on . The editor probably already knows that the review is sub-par , and has decided to move on anyway . Arguing with the editor at this point is not just attacking the reviewer , it 's attacking the editor 's professional knowledge and judgement . It 's not impossible to have a good outcome from responding , but it 's unlikely . Even if you do get a positive response , the editor would simply send it out to a new set of reviewers , so even the best-case scenario has you starting all over anyway . Find a new journal and send it there . That 's assuming that the review is genuinely completely useless . From your description , I 'm not convinced . The reviewer may be wrong , but it does n't sound as if their process is completely wrong ; there is a specific reason for the rejection , it is based on something in your paper , and the fact that there is empirical support does n't seem like a strong argument in your favor . Before you resubmit to another journal , you should seriously consider how to deal with that issue .
It 's just one paper . Papers in academia conflict quite often , sometimes with reasonable explanation . What you should do depends a lot on the nature of the conflict . At a minimum , you should address the paper 's arguments in your literature review and why you think your dissertation will find different results , or why the paper does n't apply , or why you think parts of the paper are relevant but other parts are not , or what have you . If the paper reveals a much more substantial error in your argument , you may have to rework sections of your argument or tweak your approach . But the discovery of one paper is very unlikely to torpedo an entire dissertation project .
To show interest is never wrong so from that point , I think such an approach would be fair . What complicates the issue is the picture of prerequisites . When you approach someone , does not matter at what level , you need to show how you can be of interest . What that entails is showing you have the background ( courses and scientific literature ) that allows you to be efficient help . I think this is where the plan is most likely to fail because the recipient of the request will not likely be interested in taking on help that needs much coaching to function . If your request is within the department where you study , matters might be easier but if you contact someone in another university of perhaps even department the difficulties may arise . So , I can not see anyone being offended by a request such as this . The problem lies in seeing how you can fit in and be a contributor without to much costs ( in terms of e.g. time ) for the researcher or research group . However , a personal visit is far more likely to lead somewhere than a letter or E-mail . Requests such as these are not uncommon but in my experience have most often been very uninteresting . Again , some have visited which has provided a very good possibility to assess the common interests and in what way a possible " collaboration " would work . As for the last question , I can not see a problem except that a PhD student may not be in a position to bring in an external person into a project that in essence is run by their advisor . A PhD student , on the other hand , may be a good way into a research group since they may be open to a meeting more readily than a busy project leader . So , showing interest is good but you need to be able to show clearly what you bring to the table to wet the appetite of the person you target .
A review paper is likely also known as a " survey paper " , where you read ( i.e. survey ) related works in the field and then comment on them . Usually , a review paper should be able to contribute a small amount of knowledge in its own right to the field by providing a taxonomy of work . Another type of paper that reviews extensively related work but is n't actually a review paper is a <URL> in which you usually ask a meta-question about the field . If it appears in a refereed , peer-reviewed journal , then yes , it is a publication . In fact , if done well , these works can often have pretty high impact and can be cited very frequently . However , as already noted , since they do n't usually involve substantial original research they need to be augmented with traditional research papers . If a graduate student has only survey papers or systematic review papers , I 'd wonder as a search committee reviewer if this student did nothing but read related work rather than working on research . With respect to MS or PhD applications , I 'd think that the fact that you have a publication at all is already a bonus point for you . Most students who apply to these programs do n't have publications .
Go for all the administrative details . Things you do n't want to ask a potential supervisor , ( e.g. asking about money ) and things not research related ( which a potential supervisor might not know ) . What is the official duration of a PhD ? what is the current average duration of a PhD ? What kind of living allowance/stipend is available ? How does that availability change if you go over time ? What is there exact process for applying ? Does this process change if you have already found a supervisor at the university who wants to take you on board ? How many PhD Students are at the university ? How many apply ? How many students in total ? ( i.e. what is the ratio ) What facilities do PhD student normally get ? is there separate reading areas in the library ? do you have a office ? Shared office ? Expected to use library ? How many supervisors are you required to have ? Some it is 1 , others 2 Some it may be minimum 2 but normally 3 Who is the best person at the university to contact if I have more questions ? Is this the same person I would contact if I were currently enrolled as a student ? Can I have one of those cool free pens/USB sticks/mugs you are giving out ? thanks . And if they ca n't answer , move on , you have better things to do . You can almost certainly get an answer to these via email later .
Well , this condition depends on many factors : Time . If you do n't mind having a rougher skin on your hands , then give it some time . However , if it does n't get better over time , then something has to be done . Dry hands . IMHO a big issue for many people : chalk dries your hand skin . Seriously . You should have some good cream in your office and apply it before and after each lecture . This can significantly help with the skin condition , and together with the previous point , it may be enough . Chalk holding . There are several ways how to hold a chalk . Some people prefer this or that . I suggest trying couple of them : Hold it like a pen -- however , this presses the chalk against the nail base on your middle finger , not quite good . Hold it like a dining knife in high society -- you get a long chalk and touch it by thumb tip from one side and by all fingertips from the other side . This requires a chalk that writes without much pressure Take small piece and hold it between the tips of your thumb , point finger and middle finger . ( My personal favourite ) With longer chalks , you can press it against the palm , and then do as above . Type of chalk . I know three basic types of chalk : soft square-profile chalks that leave trace on everything they touch , hard rounded chalks that leave thinner traces and last forever ; and something in between -- square profile but quite hard . There are surely others . You may try different types of chalk if you can , to see which one do you like . As for the special chalk holders and stuff : I have never used them , which does n't mean they are bad . Just a remark : With the softy things , remember to wash them well since chalk tends to accumulate in these .
The way I see it , there are a number of factors at play : Your goals : Do you want your paper to be published in a high-impact journal ? If so they will most likely be interested in the whole story rather than a small piece of it . Readability/General appeal : Can you make a coherent story with individual components ? Will they all be interesting for wider audience on their own ? In other words , if you opt for multiple papers out of one project ; can you make sure these will be able to stand on their own ? I personally think going for multiple papers is only valid when combining them into a single big paper would push aside some of your interesting results ( or methods ) to a metaphorical corner Limitations imposed by the target journal : Can you actually put together all that in a single manuscript ? In biomedical research you always get a limit on the number of words in the manuscript , and there is only so much you can put in supplementary . With regards to quality-vs-quantity , I heard that early on in your career quantity is more important while as you become more and more senior , quality becomes the main concern . I am often told that as a PhD student I can , and should try to get involved in as many papers as I can . Around the time I do post-doc , however , it 's time I pay a lot of attention to where I put my name and try to work on a good paper , preferably in a high-impact journal .
You definitely submit a paper by yourself and if you write a high quality submission , it will be accepted . When I was early in my research career I found it very helpful to have a collaborator such as a teacher/professor or a postdoc student with publishing experience to collaborate on papers . This often helps catching points or issues that you may overlook within your research as well as providing advice and guidance .
How early should I start writing a paper for a conference ? Well , there are different approaches . Some people think " there is this conference coming , I need to write something for it " , others think " I have this nice idea of research , let 's see where I could present it " . In the first case , you might need to start very early , since you need to do all the research , while in the second case , you might just need to start early ... Seriously though , it depends a lot of the content of the paper , the mechanical action of writing it ( i.e. , typing and formatting the text on a computer ) is not what takes long . Is it reasonable to write and do experiments at the same time ? Sure . Even if you ca n't finish your experiments by the deadline , it 's very likely you can reuse a good part of what you 've already written for another conference . How many references should you check ? one professor told me : check 200 use 30 . You do n't check references because you should , but because they are relevant to your research problem . You should cite what you 've read and what you think is important with respect to you work . You should cite the approaches that laid the basis for your own approaches , and explain how you build on them , which assumptions you are challenging . You should also cite the approaches that are similar to yours , and explain why yours is better . There is no magic number : there are excellent papers with only 10 citations , and bad ones with 50 references .
<URL> claims to be what you 're looking for : a statistics aggregator . However , I do n't think there 's a general well-defined methods to get any statistics . The way I usually proceed is that I attempt to find as many statistics as possible from multiple sources , I eliminate the ones that are too old / really inconsistent with the others / describe a shaky methodology for data collection , and I present all the remaining statistics . So instead of having one reference for a peer-reviewed document , I get 3 or 4 concurring non-peer-reviewed documents . EDIT : one other important aspect is how ' fresh ' the data you use is . First-hand accounts from Microsoft about Windows apps are arguably trustworthy . Second-hand accounts that do n't indulge too much in interpretation and who publish rigorous documents ( the difference between Financial Times and BuzzFeed ) can be used , too , ideally having multiple sources . For any other source or things that are more than second-hand , you want a large consensus over multiple sources .
Although I 'm not a professor , my position has a lot of similarity and I have often been asked to write recommendation letters . My reaction has been a mixture , depending on who is asking for me to write the letter : Students who I like and respect : " Sure , I 'll be happy to . What are the aspects of your work that you 'd most like to have emphasized ? " Students who I have n't got a strong opinion on : " I 'm not sure that I know your work well enough to write a strong letter . If you really need me to , I can , but I think you 'd be better served by getting somebody who knows you better . " Students who I have been disappointed in : " I 'm sorry , but I do n't think that I would be a good person to write the type of letter that you need . " You only want letters from the first type , who will happily sing your praises . And for a student like that , it 's no burden at all : I 'm going to want to push your career forward , because I 'm hoping I 'll get to see somebody who I like prosper , and maybe even return to work with me as a colleague in the future . As for the multiple letters question : do n't worry about it unless you 're applying to like 20 schools . If the programs you 're applying to are similar , they 're probably just going to be writing just one template letter about their experiences and filling in a couple of blanks to customize for the institution . Now certain institutions have terrible forms that will make it a pain to send that letter , but that 's hardly your fault , and your recommender will be used to it ...
None . One good paper makes its author ( s ) look good , but does not make the university more or less remarkable ( either in term of perception by the research community or rankings ) . It takes a lot of good output ( papers , conferences , etc. ) for people to start saying " hey , that university has great research done in so many research groups , it looks like a great place " , and for whatever rankings to be affected . Unless by " good " you mean " outstanding " , not in the academic sense " quite okay but I 'm writing in hyperbolic style " but in the meaning of " exceptionally good ; clearly noticeable " . One groundbreaking ( Nobel level , if you wish ) discovery made at a single institution will help it .
The research company where I work is organized much like a soft-money university , in that we are largely organized around PIs who fund themselves and the others working on their research by writing proposals to external funding agencies . One of the ways in which things are different , however , is that the PIs have a lot of help to draw on in writing proposals . It 's not " freelancers , " because we 're generally drawing on others at the company , but it 's still help from outside the research group and can be extremely valuable . In particular : Our library staff can prepare templates and proposal checklists to make it easy to comply with formatting requirements and to ensure that the proposal writers address all of the points needed for the proposal . We run proposals through two stages of review by people not involved in the proposal : the first is early at the " story-board " stage to make sure the narrative is coherent , the second is a week or two before submission to make sure the final proposal is really good . Some of the company publicity folks can also be drawn upon to make nice proposal art We used to have a professional copyeditor on staff , though I do n't believe that we do any more . These sorts of things can help a lot in producing a nice proposal , and I wish my university collaborators did this sort of thing more often themselves . When collaborating , we often offer to organize the review stages , for example , because they really help ; many university PIs , however , do " last minute " scheduling that makes it difficult to use these processes . There is nothing to prevent a university researcher from using these sorts of resources , whether internal or external -- at many universities , for example , there is a Writing Center that would likely be quite happy to help with copy-editing and the non-technical aspects of review . Likewise , I have known professors who would review one another 's proposals before they sent them out , in a less formal version of our review process . It just takes some organization and pre-planning to do these sorts of things ... and for many of us , that is lacking without an external framework that helps to chivvy us towards remembering .
First , here is an answer to " What do letter writers tend to do when writing about men or women candidates ? " One difference I have seen mentioned in the literature but have not seen mentioned in the other answers : use of standout adjectives , words like " superb , " " outstanding , " and " excellent . " Specifically , in letters for 62 female and 222 male applicants to a medical faculty at a large American medical school in the mid-1990s : We developed a list of ' standout adjectives ' , namely ' excellent ' , ' superb ' , ' outstanding ' , ' unique ' , ' exceptional ' , and ' unparalleled ' . In tabulating the percentages of letters for female applicants and male applicants that included these terms , we found them to be similar ( 63 % for women and 58 % for men ) . And yet the letters for men read differently . Our gut reaction after reading many of these letters was that the men had been praised more highly with these terms than had the women . Thus we were led to consider frequency . That is , instead of coding mere occurrence of at least one of these terms in a letter , we coded for multiple occurrences . Here we found that the letters for women that had at least one of these terms had an average of 1.5 terms , whereas the letters for men that included at least one had an average of 2.0 such terms . That is , there was repetition of standout adjectives within men 's letters to a greater extent . Trix , F. , &amp; Psenka , C. ( 2003 ) . <URL> . Discourse &amp; Society , 14 ( 2 ) , 191-220 . And in letters written for 235 male and 42 female applicants for either a chemistry or biochemistry faculty position at a large U.S. research university : In line with Hypothesis 5 , results revealed a significant gender difference in how many standout adjectives ( e.g. outstanding , unique , and exceptional ) the recommender used to describe the candidate , F ( 1 , 278 ) = 3.95 , p = .05 . Consistent with the notion that implicit biases can influence how letter writers describe female candidates , recommenders described male candidates ( M = .70 ) with significantly more standout adjectives compared to female candidates ( M = .60 ) . To address the possibility that this difference could be accounted for by differences in the qualifications of male and female candidates , we conducted an ANCOVA that included number of publications , presentations , fellowships , postdoctoral positions , and number letters of recommendation as covariates . Even after removing variance in standout language due to any and all of these variables , the gender difference remained significant , p = .04 . There were no differences between departments in how many standout adjectives candidates ' letters included . The " standout words " from the latter study were : excellen * , superb , outstanding , unique , exceptional , unparalleled , * est , most , wonderful , terrific * , fabulous , magnificent , remarkable , extraordinar * , amazing , supreme * , unmatched Schmader , T. , Whitehead , J. , &amp; Wysocki , V. H. ( 2007 ) . <URL> . Sex Roles , 57 ( 7-8 ) , 509-514 . The latter study also found , however , that " results revealed more similarities than differences in letters written for male and female candidates . " A third study did not find a significant difference in use of standout adjectives by gender of the applicant . In a review of 763 letters for applicants to an otolaryngology/head and neck surgery ( OHNS ) residency program at Stanford University : The length of the letters was similar , as were the mean number of " standout " terms . However , this study did address your other question , " What do men and women tend to do differently when writing letters ? " : All 763 letters " recommended " the applicant for OHNS residency . Ninety-one percent of letters were written by men , 68.4 % by male otolaryngologists ( OTOs ) , 4.2 % by female OTOs , and 33 % by OHNS department chairs or division chiefs ( 100 % men ) . A comparison of female and male letter writers revealed five categories with significant differences : female letter writers were more likely to call an applicant a " team player " ( P = .000 ) , " compassionate , " ( P = .001 ) and use strings of adjectives ( P = .024 ) . In contrast , they were less likely when compared with male letter writers , to mention an applicant 's personal life ( P = .003 ) , or write " letters of minimal assurance " ( P = .035 ) . In more detail : Male letter writers were more likely ( 28 % of letters compared with 10 % of letters by female letter writers ) to comment on the candidate 's personal life , sometimes discussing the candidate 's family history ( e.g. , immigration from another country ) , major accomplishments ( e.g. , biking across the United States ) , or hobbies ( e.g. , fly fishing ) . Female letter writers tended to discuss the applicant in terms of his or her professional accomplishments only . They were also more likely to mention that the applicant was a " team player " and " compassionate . " Women were more likely to use a string of adjectives to describe the applicant . Some researchers assert that the use of stringing terms is used to substitu
First of all the term partner is a bit confusing here , are you talking about course-mates or colleagues ? Otherwise ask yourself whether or not you want to be associated with forgery , regardless of whether or not you intend to enjoy the fruits of the action . As an analogy , would it be OK to help with forging counterfeit money just because you do n't intend to use the fake money to buy anything with it ? Then there are different levels of taking distance from the act ; you can either : blow the whistle on the data-forgery , which is what I would strongly advocate for if this work is supposed to be published on a peer-review journal , or just ask to have your name removed from the report if it 's just coursework . That way you avoid having a fallout with your " partners " and still maintain some level of plausible deniability . The first option is important in the case of a scientific publication , because data forgery on a publication is not only cheating and ethically wrong , but also is potentially harmful to others who might try on to build on your research results . That aspect is obviously not as important if the paper in question is just a hand-in assignment for some course at the uni . The second option is n't really the most ethical alternative , and might still be problematic ( e.g. if someone questions why you insist on being removed from authors list ) . Bottomline is you ca n't have your cake and eat it at the same time .
In general , I would never include code in the " main " paper outside of computer science or applied mathematics . There are very few cases where listing code explicitly would actually improve the quality and readability of the paper . If it is necessary to include the code , I would do so as part of the " Supporting Information " which many journals allow you to include alongside the main publication . I would then describe the features of the code as words in the main text . Even in CS and math papers , I would still only put pseudocode in the main article , and would save any listings of actual code for the Supporting Information .
A review is supposed to provide the view of a peer on the manuscript submitted for publication . An editor needs to take one or several , usually two , reviews to form the basis on deciding on the faith of the submitted manuscript and to form the basis for revisions by the authors . There are very few instances , I have yet to see one , where a paper is publishable as is . There is , however , no clear correlation between usefulness and length of a review . The key is to provide feedback for improvements to ensure the manuscript becomes an as good a contribution as possible . Some reviewers spend much time correcting language or other formal aspects of manuscripts . These sorts of comments are always welcome but the core issues are focussing on the science itself and the clarity with which it is disseminated . So a shorter form of report contains the core scientific and clarity issues encountered and perhaps general comments on other shortcomings , a longer report details also the detailed issues . The size of the reports obviously depend on the quality of the manuscript but also on your expertise . Some times editors appoint reviewers to cover a narrower but vital aspect of the manuscript . The good review should be critical , fair and objective and provide both the editor and authors with suggestions for improvement . By necessity this will be more than just a few paragraphs of comments
The authors would like to thank Jane Doe for her assistance in the preparation of this article . or some variation of the sentence above .
One minor counterpoint to @adipro 's answer : rather than age of the professor , consider where they stand in their professional career . Age aside , you want to make sure that they 're still highly active in the research community . I made the mistake of being what turned out to be my advisor 's last graduate student ; not a good position to be in . To present the case more generally : While all the positive points listed by @adipro were are true of someone close to retirement , they may simply might not care as much about things you care about . Specifically : They have no pressure to publish , and consequently , your need to publish does n't scratch any itch of theirs Since they 're close to retiring , they wo n't want to enter extensive collaborations , as they will likely be gone before the work is done . ( This is referring to long , multi-year projects , not smaller stuff . ) Their interest in grant-writing will be far less than yours , for the same reason as the preceding point ; multi-year research efforts will likely complete after they 're gone . When researching potential advisors , talk to their graduate students about the number of grants they 've applied for in the past two years , the number of new students they 've taken on , the number of new collaborations they 've started , and the like . You want to make sure they 're not winding things down , as that means they 'll be less interested in things you care about , such as creating new relationships , writing more papers , and finding new grants .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of dissertation embargo periods ?
An embargo effectively withholds your dissertation from being placed on your institution 's open-access dissertation archive ( from which anyone can view/download your dissertation ) . I have placed an embargo on my dissertation so that I may attempt to get a few more papers published without my dissertation being searchable on the web . It is a common practice in the department where I did my PhD ( though , I wondered sometimes if it was really necessary ) . For a more complete list of reasons why one would choose to place an embargo on their dissertation , I 'm listing here an excerpt taken from a <URL> page : Embargos may be appropriate for authors 1 ) who are seeking patents , 2 ) who want to publish their work through a traditional press that considers open access publication to be equivalent to prior publication , 3 ) who have published material from their work with a publisher that does not allow open access release for a certain period of time , or 4 ) who need to protect sensitive data or information .
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
While this will depend partly on the formal requirements of the course for which you are applying , here are some general things that I look for in reading these statements as admissions tutor for our department : Demonstrated enthusiasm for the subject . Your CV and transcript will provide basic factual information about your technical skills and ability to succeed in an academic environment , but the statement of purpose lets you round out that profile with memorable detail . Be specific . If you 've worked at a tech start-up , how did that inform your decision to pursue further study ? What new skills did you learn , new challenges faced and overcome , etc ? Demonstrated awareness of the programme . I 've read essays that clearly had no understanding of what our programme covered and how we taught it . Be familiar with the prospectus and do n't be afraid to contact the admissions tutors to clarify anything . How does the style of teaching at your target university relate to your interests ? Ability to write coherently . Regardless of the subject , you will need to be able to communicate clearly . A poorly structured essay , full of grammar and spelling mistakes , is a sure-fire way to end up on the ' no ' pile . Good luck !
Cumulative dissertation is probably a literal translation of the German Kumulative Dissertation , which denotes a <URL> , i.e. , a thesis which typically consists of some peer-reviewed publications , an introduction , and a conclusion . The alternative to this is a monograph thesis , which is written separately as a coherent monolithic work and whose individual chapters are not intended for being read on their own . The requirements on such a cumulative dissertation differ between universities and even faculties , so you have to look into their rules for those .
The major quantifiable predictor of success in research is ... success in research . People who have done research successfully in the past are more likely than not to continue to do so . For students that have not done research in the past , the best predictor I have seen for success ( whatever that may be ) is expressed in a quote from The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research , by Marian Petre &amp; Gordon Rugg : A willingness to learn for themselves and good judgement about when to stop and ask for feedback . * It 's not exactly quantifiable , but you can get a sense for it in an interview . ( Of course , this quality can be learned , so a lack of it does n't necessarily predict an inability to succeed at research . ) * I took this quote completely out of context ; the authors there are actually discussing the role of the PhD advisor , and they mention this quality in reference to a student " who can be pretty much left to get on with it , with supervisory meetings being something that both parties enjoy , and where each party learns from the other . "
You are correct in that the total time will first of all vary between journals and fields but also slightly over time . I am chief editor of an international journal in the environmental sciences . The time each reviewing editor spends on a paper with our journal can be broken down as follows : Must scan the paper upon receiving it for assigning reviewers ( probably takes an hour , maybe less ) Assign reviewers ( does not take much time but can be drawn out over time when reviewers decline to review ) Read reviews carefully and provide authors with guidelines on what to focus on ( probably takes a few hours ) Carefully check the revisions and decide on the faith of the paper ( takes a couple of hours at least depending on extent of revisions ) If the paper goes to major revisions you need to go through steps 2-4 again If the paper is accepted then spend maybe 15 minutes to half an hour formulating a suggestion for final decision ( depends on what might need to be written ) This can be summed up for one paper as probably more than half a day . Then the question is how many papers you are requested to handle per month/year etc. . You can then easily multiply by the number of papers to get a reasonable idea of the total time you will need to spend . To add to this , you will need to act whenever a paper arrives , so you are expected to be more or less on call all year . Most journals have systems for indicating when editors are away but that only works for assigning new papers ; if you have started the process you will have to see it through ... and keep chasing late reviews and delayed revisions . So although I can not give you an idea of workload , you have some tools to figure out what will be involved . Knowing the number of papers you are expected to handle is the most important statistic to figure out . Then depending on your field , you may have a sense of whether my estimates for scanning and reading materials are reasonable . I am sure they will vary depending on discipline .
These meetings can serve a variety of purposes , but many of them fall into the broad category of keeping the adviser and all the group members updated on what everyone in the group is doing . Below are some of the secondary benefits of a group meeting : saves the adviser time ( compared to meeting with students individually ) motivates the students to keep doing work , so they have something to report at the meeting fosters a sense of community with the group provides the students experience giving informal presentations often leads to the more senior students mentoring the junior students To answer your follow-up question in the description , no , some faculty meet with each student individually ; in fact these separate meetings are common , for example , in mathematics .
Reasons for faculty turnover are more important than numbers . For example , in the late 90s , CS professors were leaving their positions to start companies . I also know of professors who left otherwise ideal positions to solve a two-body problem ( move near their spouse ) . One important component of faculty turnover is tenure denials . If you are a serious candidate , you should ask why your opening exists and the outcome of recent tenure cases . Another component is faculty taking advantage of early retirement offers . If a school is offering sweet deals for retirement , it may not be at its most financially secure . ( On the other hand , if they 're doing a tenure-track search , that 's a positive sign . ) If you can contact faculty who have left through your social network ( e.g. , if one of your committee members knew them socially ) , you might be able to get the dirt on the department . It also does n't hurt to look at the student newspaper , now usually available online . At one school at which I interviewed , my host stopped me from picking up a copy . I did so later and read about major problems between the faculty and administration that involved a lawsuit , the AAUP , etc. .
I personally am comfortable with both ways , for exactly the reasons that you give : it 's entirely reasonable to refer to either the authors or the paper . The important thing is to be consistent with your usage throughout a manuscript , else your readers may wonder why you feel it appropriate to refer to some authors directly but not others .
I asked my wife , which works in art history/egyptology . So first , " it depends of how the person works " ;) . However , it seems that many people are making a large number of thematic reading synthesis , research notes ( as we do ) and she also pointed out the importance of her personal database , where she stores archaeological artefacts , their descriptions , the related bibliography , personal notes about them , their relations , etc. . According to her , this is THE most important thing for her work .
There is no single purpose of the viva , but broadly speaking it tests a student 's ability to act like a researcher . It is not easy to define what does " being a researcher " mean , but the list of skills required definitely includes such things as : understanding the importance of the problem and its place in a wide picture of researchchoice of appropriate method to solve the problem ability to find a sound , elegant and technically accurate solution ability to communicate the solution for different audiences Many undergraduate assessments only test skill 3 from the list and ( partly ) skill 2 . When students prepare a coursework or sit an exam , they always communicate their results in a certain style , typically in writing , and written for the single reader : the lecturer running the module . Unlike a typical assessment , the format of viva allows three-way communication between the student , the text of thesis , and the readers / examiners . The opportunity to ask student a question about the text changes the game completely for all parties . For the student , the task is not only to write and present a text with the solution , but also to understand the solution , the questions which may be marginally connected with the topic of the text -- a & laquo ; big picture & raquo ; . For examiners , the goal is not only to check the formal correctness of the arguments , but also to make sure the student can freely use these arguments , and apply them to problems within the big picture . Answering your specific question : it does not matter , what does the supervisor know . In viva , you , as a researcher , present the thesis . Your skill to be solely responsible for the text you produced is what is tested , not the text per se . It is you , who should focus the examiners on the important parts of your thesis . Through the way how you present the research , you should be able to create a right context , and to attract the attention to the strongest parts of your thesis . Success in this part will invite comfortable questions ; failure will result in a number of random questions distributed all over your thesis , which you 'll have to answer . If you feel really uncomfortable talking about ( some ) part of your thesis , you possibly should ask yourself , why this topic is still a part of your thesis in the first place .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
I think it helps a lot here to understand the American cultural context , and in particular the liberal arts model of education that is quite common in the US . The GRE , and the departments and universities that care most about them , thinks of graduate training as pointing towards a career as a professor , not as a researcher . In the US , the majority of jobs as professors have teaching ( at the university level ) as a valued component , and in the US , students at university are supposed to take a broad range of courses rather than courses focused on a single area of study . This means that professors are also teaching an audience that is n't solely focused on their subject but rather students with a wide range of interests ( at least in the ideal case - in non-ideal cases , they may be teaching students with no interests ) . Even though I 'm a mathematician and teach only mathematics courses , I think I am a better teacher ( and academic advisor ) because I know a fair amount about philosophy , religion , history , literature , economics , sociology , computer science , and so on . I 'm not an expert in any of these things , and I make this clear , but I can make analogies to a broad range of ideas and use them in conversation with students . For an American , the vocabulary section of the GRE is meant to test , not whether you can memorize the meaning of a large number of words for the GRE , but rather whether you are a widely read person who has already encountered many of these words in the course of their life and studies . Certainly the verbal GRE scores are generally taken into account much less seriously ( or not at all ) when making graduate admissions decisions for non-American students , particularly when the student has no plans to remain in the US after their studies .
Guidance is typically provided on when you 'd be expected to come up with your research question and your nomination of supervisor . Follow that guidance . If you have n't been told yet , then at least wait for the induction week to find out how things are organised . To kick off on choosing a dissertation topic and supervisor before induction really would be too early . Indeed , it would just look silly . So at the very minimum , do at least wait for two weeks . On our ( UK ) Masters courses , the selection of thesis topic and supervisor does n't happen until the second term . That 's because the taught modules in the first term gives the students the grounding in research skills and research areas , and an introduction to the staff , that enables them to make better decisions . If a student approaches a member of staff earlier than that , then a common response would be to note the interest , and to invite them to come back in the second term if they were still interested , but that there 's no commitment to do so , as lots of things change after the first term . An early approach does not necessarily make a good impression . It can look hasty . It can look like you 're not expecting to learn anything in the first term . And we do n't really do reserving of research-questions , as such . At least , merely being the first to propose a research question for your dissertation does n't give you priority in doing it . We work with students to get the best match of question , student skills , and supervisory support . If student B provides a better match than student A , then we 'll recommend that student B does that dissertation , regardless of whether A or B proposed it first . In recent cases where we have had overlaps between particular students , then the research area has has sufficient open questions that the students have each been able to do a distinct dissertation within it ( and indeed subsequently co-author papers together ) . So I do n't really recognise this notion of " missing out on a topic " . It takes quite a bit of subject familiarity to understand where the open questions are , and that 's one of the reasons why we wait until the second term before we get to topic and supervisor selection .
Once a person have graduated , there is not generally any remaining formal role for the Ph.D. advisor . In theory , a Ph.D. qualifies them as generally capable of independent scientific research , and they have no requirement to depend on their academic " parent " any more . In practice , however , no person is an island . Most researchers do much better as part of a network of like-minded colleagues who can serve as friends and allies . The Ph.D. advisor is a natural starting point for building such a network , both as someone likely to be a like-minded ally and also by helping build connections based on their own existing network . As the more junior colleague in the relationship , the benefits of interaction are likely to flow more more from the advisor to the former student , but the relationship is likely to grow more peer-like over time . Just as with a biological parent , even after formal independence , this connection is likely to last a lifetime ( but may not if the relationship is not good ) . Also like biological parents , however , Ph.D. advisors ( and others ) often have a hard time adjusting their perspective and seeing their former students as fully " grown up . " This is part of why it 's important not only to maintain a connection with one 's advisor , but also to clearly establish a separate research identity .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
Editors need books that will have an audience , a point , impact , and a connection to their " lists " . In a conversation you should be able to briefly summarize your manuscript -- and in this summary make clear its central argument / narrative , scope / evidence base , and its what is novel , important , and exciting about it . You should also summarize the audience for the manuscript , -- how it fits into the market : what other books are competing for this audience , and what distinguishes your manuscript . These summaries should be honest , and direct -- avoid both negativity and overstatement . Choose language to appeal to a smart , and critical , but not specialize reader -- avoid jargon , and if you have to use specialized terms , define them briefly , in common-sense terms . For a written prospectus , follow the same model , but expand to two pages ; and include an outline of the work , list of figures/tables , and note any special features such as data , or an accompanying website . For more details , see : Germano , From Dissertation to Book and Luey , Handbook for Academic Authors
He should just use his official employer . There are lots of scientific papers from people with affiliations in industry . Most of the time , these authors are working for companies in technical fields that are at least somewhat related to the research , but not always . ( I knew of somebody who was still working with his doctoral advisor doing research in theoretical particle physics , while he was employed at a company making speech recognition software , and the software company was his listed affiliation . ) Especially if most of the other authors have more conventional affiliations , listing a consulting company for one authors is not going to raise any eyebrows . If the manuscript was completely written while he was a student , he could use his university affiliation , with a footnote indicating his current position . However , I would imagine in this case that the text was not finalized until after the author moved into industry , in which case the university affiliation is not appropriate .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
For a purely course-based Masters , in which you do not do research , the research strength of the university obviously wo n't matter very much . For a Masters in which you do research and create a thesis , however , the strength of the research group is likely to significantly outweigh the reputation of the school . This is because the most valuable thing that you can have when applying either for a Ph.D. or an industrial job is a strong recommendation letter from a respected colleague . If all I know about a student is that they got a Masters from MIT or Berkeley , well , a lot of students get such degrees , and some are excellent while others are worthless outside of the structured environment of the classroom . On the other hand , if the student comes from Mid-Ranked U with a strong personal recommendation from somebody whose work I know and respect , then they are likely a much better prospect than the unknown from a high-ranked university .
end question
start question
Submitting course work report as research paper ?
In one of the coursework at my university , I submitted a very detailed project report done for the course . It later turned out that the work contributed some value to the field as well . Is it right to submit the report reformatted as a research paper ? So long as the results are novel and you meet the other necessary prerequisites for publication ( acknowledge main contributors as authors , acknowledge secondary contributors in acknowledgements , reference and discuss related work , meet level of technicality/significance required , etc. ) , I do n't see any problem of submitting course-work for publication , and if as you say the work has had some impact in the field , I think it should be encouraged ! Do we need to provide any special mentions to the coursework or any other related disclosure ? You should ask your professor or other senior staff member for advice , but I do n't believe any special mentions would be required other than what 's mentioned above . You could mention it as a footnote or as an acknowledgement if so desired . Also , if your work was ( even indirectly ) funded through a specific research grant , they may require acknowledgement as a condition of the grant . Again , talk to a staff member involved .
In one of the coursework at my university , I submitted a very detailed project report done for the course . It later turned out that the work contributed some value to the field as well . Is it right to submit the report reformatted as a research paper ? So long as the results are novel and you meet the other necessary prerequisites for publication ( acknowledge main contributors as authors , acknowledge secondary contributors in acknowledgements , reference and discuss related work , meet level of technicality/significance required , etc. ) , I do n't see any problem of submitting course-work for publication , and if as you say the work has had some impact in the field , I think it should be encouraged ! Do we need to provide any special mentions to the coursework or any other related disclosure ? You should ask your professor or other senior staff member for advice , but I do n't believe any special mentions would be required other than what 's mentioned above . You could mention it as a footnote or as an acknowledgement if so desired . Also , if your work was ( even indirectly ) funded through a specific research grant , they may require acknowledgement as a condition of the grant . Again , talk to a staff member involved .
end question
start question
After an unsuccessful application for a permanent academic position in the UK , should I call and ask details about the selection procedure ?
You can call and ask , but you are unlikely to get anything useful . You will most likely hear that your CV was very good , but that there were stronger applicants . If the head of the search is really good , they might actually look at your CV again and pick a weaker aspect of it ( no matter how strong a applicant is , there is always a weaker aspect of the CV ) . If you want to know about your relative qualifications , ask whoever is writing your references . If they do not know about the UK system , find a colleague that does and ask them .
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
Book writing is a very thankless task -- it takes a long time , and the profits probably do n't make up for the cost of the time it takes you to write the book , unless you happen to write a textbook that becomes the default for a field . On the other hand , in some disciplines ( particularly in the humanities ) , a published book is practically a requirement for tenure , so you 'll want to make sure that you do things right . So my advice would depend upon where you are in the process . If you have n't already started writing , I 'd shop around a prospective outline of the book plus an introductory chapter or two before you get too much further . Then you 'll have a sense of what the publishers would be interested in . If you 've gotten a lot written , then you just need to start shopping the full idea around .
Yes , you can ask your former professor . No , it 's almost certainly not required that all referees be current academics . There 'd be no sensible reason for a graduate program to require that . Your professor can use her best judgment as to whether to fill the form with her current position or something like " Professor ( former ) " . In the letter , she should explain what her position was at the time that she worked with you .
It depends . What does your acknowledgement say when you had submitted your application ? If you were told something like " you will be informed your result by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that regard by that period , then you can write an e-mail to inquire the status of your application . If you were told something like " only successful candidates will be informed by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that matter , then you can write an e-mail to your contact person to know the status . In any case , you can write email politely to know about your application status if you think it is already too late . There is no harm to inquiring application status .
One non-surprising way to help your application rise to the top is to have your advisor or another letter-writer contact a colleague they know at a school you 're interested in and give you a good word in person ( obviously not always an option ) . If you are really in the position where you are " too good , " then you should follow the advice in the other thread you mentioned , and explicitly spell out in your cover letter why you want to work at a particular institution .
I can speak for Austria ( place where I did my PhD ) and Switzerland ( current place of employment ) , but my answer should be applicable for Germany as well . I wonder what is the Phd application process for Germany and Switzerland . Are there scholarships offered ? Is there a need for scholarship at all , or do you get paid as an researched directly from the institution where you get the Phd postion ? Both models exist , but the far more common one is that you are just employed as a researcher while doing your PhD . This has advantages and disadvantages . Typically these positions are financially rather attractive ( at least as far as PhD student salaries go ) , currently at about 2400 EUR 14 times a year in Austria for full-time employment , a bit more in Germany , significantly more ( around 5000 CHF 12 times a year ) in Switzerland . All of these salaries allow you to conveniently live ( no need for a diet of <URL> ) in the respective places . On the other hand , as a researcher you are not " just " working on your thesis . In addition , teaching has to be handled , support in administrative matters will be part of your job , and you will need to work on matters of your research project that you find neither interesting nor advance your thesis work in any way . The application process is generally as for any other job - find out what jobs are offered , contact the person per mail , send in CV , ( usually ) do an interview via Skype , wait for an offer . The hardest part is probably finding out what research groups currently have job openings . Positions are generally not announced very widely ( if at all ) . However , just because you can not find an ad for an open position with a specific professor does not necessarily mean that he does not have a position available . Both places that I worked at had open positions almost at all times for a really qualified student . What really helps here are connections - do you know somebody who is already an " insider " in academic circles , maybe a PhD student or postdoc ? If so , ask him to put you in contact with some faculty . If not , look for universities that you might consider joining , find out from their web page what faculty there handles your topic , and send them a short mail . Keep it crisp - both of my professors so far have been insanely busy , and any mail from an unknown person with more than one short paragraph will never be read carefully . Just tell who you are , what your current university is , and that you would like to talk about the possibility of doing a PhD . Give them a week to answer and then send a quick and friendly reminder ( my current prof is the dean of the faculty , and given the size of his inbox mails sometimes do get lost - that does not mean that he is necessarily not interested ) . Maybe , the professor will put you in contact with one of this postdocs or PhD students to " chat " via Skype or in person ( if possible ) - consider this the technical interview , because afterwards the prof will ask the person that you talked to whether they think that you have the technical skills that are required for the selected field . What you should not do is send an overly long formal application - most professors get many of those from rather dubios applicants from the far east , hence formal blind applications are generally discarded unread . Do n't be one of those . is there a need to search and find for a supervisor ( or professor ) , and explain him the idea for the research that you are planning to work on ... or do you get the position and work on the topics which are treated in that research group . my question is both for Swiss and DE ? You are generally not expected to " come " with your own topic . Your broad overall theme will be defined by whatever project / position pays your salary , and on top of that you are expected to define your concrete research project together with a postdoc and/or the professor some time into your PhD ( say , about a year after starting ) . What you should know is roughly what interests you research-wise and contact only professors that really do this research . This sounds like a given , but I work in services and software engineering , and I have lost track of many applicants interested in robotics , AI , formal methods , etc. . I have already discarded . Do n't be one of those , either .
UK PhD programs pretty much universally require a MSc or equivalent so I would expect a MS to be required . For some lower ranking universities you may be able to make a case based on the differences between US and UK bachelors , but I think even this is doubtful . Thinking about it this is not entirely true . There are some <URL> which offer combined masters and PhD courses for which you do n't require a Masters , but outside these a masters is required . Academically , I expect top UK institutions have similar requirements to top US institutions . Specially , they will require a 2:1 or equivalent , with some top universities requiring a 1st . There is no simple conversion to GPA or other systems . But , roughly speaking at 2:1 / 1st corresponds to 3.2 / 4.0 in GPA . However , academics are mainly just a minimum requirement . The main determining factors are the enthusiasm you can show for research , particularly related to the area you are applying for . Most UK applicants will have at least some research experience from experience from their course and the majority will have also done a summer research job or similar . I would still expect applications for to places to be quite competitive . Less in terms of raw numbers compared to undergraduate , but more the quality of applicants . Some interesting numbers for Cambridge can be found <URL> . About 1/3 of applicants get an offer and about 1/4 applicants start the PhD ( the difference presumably fail to make their grades or take another offer ) . This is much higher than undergrad , where a low estimate would be 1/10 get an offer .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
As other have already said , you should not let your past degrees out of your CV . I am just a bit surprised that they did n't emphasise the fact that it can be actually very beneficial for you . You might not want to give right away your grades on the CV [ 1 ] but I think you should definitely mention them . Doing a PhD takes time , motivation and perseverance but it also means asking yourself a lot of questions : those questions are related to the subject you are researching but also on yourself which can be pretty <URL> . Whatever you can hear , if you have a PhD program with a high rate of dropout or that take a long time to be achieved , it is not good . Showing that you already have faced turning points in your life and managed to go forward ( and have managed better ) can be reassuring for the recruiters that you will do well in the PhD program : That means you probably know yourself better . You are not keeping with a pre-establish path just because it is easy . ( I suppose that you change field after due reflexion ) You change fields : This mean that at some point you have make a decision . Taking decision ( particularly life-changing ones ) is not always easy . Particularly , when this means starting ' again ' . You are motivated : doing a Master is not a piece of cake and you knew it but still you were foolish motivated enough to go through it another time . On a side note , it also proves that you are not taken aback by what you might see as a failure and you actually try again . Even if your grades were n't good in your previous track , they did improve while the later Master . Basically , you showed that you improved and developed through time . Which is a very good point for a PhD . It also means that you were right to change . It also means that you have a broader view . Okay , you might not had good grades in your previous Bachelor and Master , but you do have them i.e. a committee of experts in the field considered that you know enough to have these degrees ! Apart if you are considering a very technical PhD ( and even though ) doing a PhD ( well really any research in general ) is doing something that nobody else has done before . Granted you start from something , but then you are on your own . Believe me , having a broader view can be very helpful on the creative side . And to finish , apart that lying or omitting key information can be seen as a huge breach of trust , I would like to ask : Do you really see yourself rejecting your past ? Do n't you want to do your PhD in a place where you know that you have been accepted as yourself as a whole ? Doing a PhD is not an easy process - not because the applications are though - because it is though . IMO , applications are just the quickest way and the least worse ( and not actually the best ) for recruiters to identify who are the people who would manage to finish it . [ 1 ] Keep this for the interview , if they ask . Disclaimer : I am French who has done a Bachelor and a Master in Organic Chemistry before doing a Master degree in Bioinformatics and actually doing a PhD in Bioinformatics in Cambridge , UK .
It 's not uncommon for people to move because of two-body issues , and if you 're not comfortable disclosing the specific reasons , one possibility is to mention ( at interview time ) that you have non-academic constraints that force your departure from a place that you like . Having said that , you 're not going to get an interview call unless you 're a superstar and everyone wants you OR you have some positive argument for why you 're interested in a particular university . So in your cover letter you 'll at least need to provide some positive reasons .
( US-specific ; public university ) You 'll find a huge variation in procedures across universities . There really is n't one standard method . Having said that , I can at least suggest what happens in ( one ) American public universities ( private universities have different financing structure ) Financing : In our universities , " slots " are line items that are approved by the legislature and are created ultimately by approval of the president of the university in conjunction with the dean of the college . There 's a lot of negotiating that goes on to acquire one of these slots , and it 's typically based on some " soft " arguments : " look how much research money we 're generating , and how many students we 're bringing in " and hard arguments : " We can only get this gigantic grant if you promise to give us a faculty slot " and so on . Selection : departments are usually quite protective of the search process , and control most aspects of it . Again , the degree of shielding depends on politics : it 's not unheard of for deans to get actively involved , especially if the department is weak . Within the department , the chair might take charge of selection , or assign a committee to do it , and so on . Official stuff : a contract is ultimately signed by the university , and all official paperwork must go through them . Negotiations also happen with the dean via the chair . HR : They 're usually involved initially , to make sure job ads are posted correctly , and in compliance with university , state and federal employment laws . They 're also involved after the offer is made , especially if there are legal requirements , international issues and so on .
I feel it 's kind of obnoxious to ask for an expected salary , and it does raise issues of whether the answer could be used to lower the initial offer ( or decrease the applicant 's negotiating power ) . I do n't see anything wrong with giving a vague answer or just saying you are flexible . If you specify a number , you should try to choose one that 's representative of the type of school you are applying to , as Danny W. suggests . As for why they do it , one reason is that salaries vary enormously . A regional liberal arts college may pay less than half as much as a leading research university . Some U.S. states scandalously underfund their state universities , so there can be dramatic salary differences between what you 'd think are comparable institutions . The net effect is that schools that are n't able to pay a lot worry about attracting candidates who have no idea how little they pay . They do n't want to waste time trying to hire someone who will never accept any amount they could plausibly offer . One way to get around that is to announce a salary range . However , some departments are hesitant to do that , perhaps because they do n't want to publicly emphasize how little money they get ( and thereby humiliate themselves or discourage applicants ) . Instead , they ask for an expected salary and filter out anyone who names a figure far out of their range . I do n't like it , but it seems to work well enough that departments keep doing it .
I 'm actually a bit surprised by the harsh comments here . I do come from Computer Science , so the situation might be a bit different . But still , I know more than one student with advisers that explicitly prohibited presenting ongoing unpublished work . Sometimes it is a bit more relaxed ( e.g. it is okay to present it to the people in your team or lab ) , but in general , it is not uncommon in my area . The explanation I got once is that if a senior researcher with a lot of resources recognized an idea as potentially good and gives it to multiple junior students to work on , he can develop the idea faster than the " original idea holders " ( i.e. 1 PhD student + his/her adviser ) . On the other hand , I personally believe that the whole point of research is to expand and share knowledge , so I frown upon being too protective of one 's work . Also , putting a date on your presentation , and making it available online , diminishes the chances of stealing . That being said , I think offering a 90-minute presentation , with discussion , based at least partially on your work , is a very nice offer . The only reason I can think of why they would not be pleased is that they expected a talk on some specific topic . Some suggestions about what you could do as an alternative : prepare an in-depth exhaustive talk about just one problem/theory from your thesis , preferably something already published in an article prepare a talk about motivation for your theories , problems that dictated the research direction and reserve some time for a discussion session , where you do offer your own theories as solutions , but other attendees are expected to participate as well . offer to come back after finishing your thesis , and presenting everything in-depth ( possibly over several sessions ) when all the work is finished , published and peer reviewed ( see both my points below ) This should give you enough flexibility to avoid talking about any sensitive areas . Also , some " guarding " explanations that seem quite reasonable to me : a PhD thesis is a 3 + year long effort , often a compilation of many works and ideas by the author . Even though it is centered around one subject , it probably deals with several issues , approaches , angles ... All in all , it is a lot of material . Explaining everything is something what is expected at a PhD defense : and even then , in that 1 + hour talk , some students ca n't cover all their work . Thus , explaining that presenting everything simply requires too much time , and offering the school to choose a issue you deal with that is of particular interest , does not seem bad or disrespectful or overly protective . if you are against disclosing details of your ongoing work , you should be able to come up with some legitimate reasons . If the work is ongoing and unpublished , you can argue that you do not want to present ideas that did not go through peer-review process . Peer-review is the process that ( should ) ensure excellence and relevance of published research . Judging the relevance and correctness of your own work is something not left to the author , and it should be fine if you do not want to present something in detail that is not yet accepted by academic community . But , even in this case , and after such an explanation , offering to include some of this work as a smaller part of your presentation ( e.g. ideas for future work , or discussion ) , with a beforehand explanation that those are just discussable , underdeveloped ideas and should be treated as such . Bottom line is , it is not acceptable to guard your research just because others do it . But , if you look at why others do it and understand their reasons , you can decide whether that reasoning applies to you and your work .
I do n't think this is quite true in Germany either - or at least not in the generality that I read into your question . Here is <URL> ( Promotionsordnung ( PhD bylaws ) for psychology and sport , Muenster ) , and another randomly selected <URL> ( Promotionsordnung math , Bonn ) . Both stipulate much more restrictive conditions that relate to your question . They somewhat overlap , but not completely - so there is also no uniform answer for Germany . Simply stepping away from a PhD early on would not be a problem in either case . The restrictions on the number of attempts to be successfully awarded a PhD are as follows : Example 1 : you get one and one only attempt to resubmit a declined thesis , and to re-take the oral defense each Example 2 : no restrictions are mentioned on the number of failed thesis attempts . You get one attempt to re-take a failed defense In particular given that even these two sources do n't agree , you just need to pull your program 's Promotionsordnung , and confirm which rules apply to you .
It will take you out of consideration for any faculty appointment . MBAs are headed to industry ; to teach ( be hired on tenure track ) , you need a relevant Ph.D. . This does n't depend on whether your program is online or not . Come to think of it , depending on how interesting and high-level your prior job was , and if teaching ( as opposed to research ) interests you , you could target an <URL> instead .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
Yes you can . The " Assistant Professor " still teaches . The word Assistant is there to denote the rank within the academic system . Some have taught longer and are more accomplished and are rewarded accordingly . Actually , calling the person " Assistant Professor Jones " would be very awkward and cumbersome . It should be avoided .
The editor , who selects the reviewers , may not be familiar with the particular sub-area , when a journal is not hyper-narrowly focused . In that case , providing a list of potential reviewers directs the editor 's attention to possible scholars in the area . Once your attention has been drawn to an individual , you can spend some time discovering whether they would actually be good in that area .
Let me clear up an important distinction between graduate school in the US and the UK : In Europe , the master 's degree is generally a pre-requisite for admission to a PhD program . In the US , the master 's degree is not required for admission to a PhD program , and you normally apply to the PhD program with only a bachelor 's degree . You can obtain a master 's degree as part of the PhD program , but this is by no means a universal requirement . It varies between universities and even departments within a university . In the UK , options are somewhat ambiguous . You can apply for a master 's and PhD program at the same time , while others may require the PhD in advance . Therefore , if you are admitted to an American PhD program , you will take courses in graduate school , because that is the equivalent of the master 's phase in the UK . Other than that , there 's no inherent advantage of applying or attending bachelor 's or master 's programs in the US or the UK .
end question
start question
How to teach from someone else 's material ?
I find it hard to teach from others ' slides , which are often very dense . You need to " own " the material to have confidence to authentically teach it . I 'd start my own slide deck abd pull in slides as appropriate . Check what 's actually going to be assessed and focus on that . It 's also helpful to add more exercises for the students to do in class to help prompt good questions .
I 'd recommend against sending such an e-mail to someone you do n't know well . If you 've got serious reason to fear there may be competition that neither of you wants , then perhaps a mutual friend could help sort it out ; if you do n't , then I would n't worry about it . One danger is that the e-mail can come across as aggressively staking out territory . Even just asking whether someone is working on this topic can be read as " speak now or forever hold your peace " , with the implication that unless they announce it now , you 'll be seriously offended if they end up competing with you on this topic . This is not a fair position to put someone in , since research can be unpredictable and their work may end up having consequences for these topics that they do not yet foresee . Collaboration can also be a touchy issue . It 's sometimes a mutually beneficial way to resolve this sort of situation , but not always . It can be awkward when someone you do n't know well suggests a collaboration , since no matter what excuses you offer , it 's hard to avoid the appearance that declining a collaboration request is a negative judgement on the person making the request . If you know someone well , you may be able to avoid these difficulties , but I would n't try it otherwise . If you 're a graduate student , then your advisor should help with situations like this . For example , they should make sure potential competitors are aware of your thesis project ( at least in mathematics , it 's considered extremely bad form to compete with a grad student , and part of the advisor 's role is to minimize the chances of accidental competition ) .
I would reserve the acknowledgments section for people or organizations that directly contributed to the paper . For example , if you talked with Erikson while he was still alive and he offered advice or suggestions , then it would be appropriate to thank him in the acknowledgments . If you were just inspired by his papers , then it is better to discuss that elsewhere in the paper . For example , you could note in the introduction that your approach is inspired by Erikson 's work on psychological development , or you could mention this background when you define the terms based on his theory . But if you thank him in the acknowledgments section , then people will assume there was a more personal connection unless you clearly specify otherwise ( " Although I was never lucky enough to discuss this work with him in person , I owe Erik Erikson a great debt for ... " ) . The main thing you should not do when thanking a deceased person is to attribute opinions to them , because they are not around to contradict you . For example , you should not thank them in a way that suggests they supported your work , even if it 's true , unless you have some documented proof . For example , it 's awkward to write " I am deeply grateful to Erik Erikson for his steadfast belief in my theory . "
Format means that there should be a full reference in the bibliography ( at the and of the article , chapter or book ; or sometimes in the footnote ) . In case if it is missing , you can use <URL> with then in the options set date range to .
The relevant citation is provided in the <URL> . To cite in MLA7 : DiIulio , John J. , Jr. " My Black Crime Problem , and Ours . " City Journal , Spring 1996 : 14-28 . Print . Hope this answers your quesion .
First of all , I think that in your particular case , it was a right course of action to reject the " invitation " . To answer the general question Would it be inappropriate for someone to present a paper , for the reasons listed above ? let 's look at the single reasons one by one : Not my expertise A somewhat valid point . You probably should n't be talking about something way outside of your area of expertise . However , if the topic is at least marginally connected to yours , it could also be argued that you should not enclose yourself in your personal bubble , but try to get somewhat acquainted with as many other topics as possible . In general , despite researching specific questions , an educated person should have some wide knowledge , and maybe knowing about such another topic even provides you with opportunities for expanding your own research into unforeseen directions . My first Conference This . In my opinion , this is the strongest point in this list . You do n't have any conference experience yet , not only giving talks , but also listening to how conference talks work at all . As so often , it is advisable to start out somewhat simple , and presenting a paper you are not fully knowledgeable about yourself is probably not a good way . I 'm not an author on the paper That is not a valid reason . As you said , people present on behalf of others all the time , and there are various reasons why the actual authors might not make it to a conference personally1 . I do n't understand the paper Acutely , that is a severe issue , though it could be said ( also referring to the first point ) that in that case , you just need to spend some more time trying to figure it out ( and having the original authors help you understand it ! ) . So , it is a somewhat valid reason , but given a little more time , it is an issue that can be mitigated . A word on your statement surely these people are knowledgable on this subject ? No . Sometimes , not at all , which is unfortunate , as like that , the Q&amp;A session degrades into nothing but : " Next question , please . " - " ... ? " - " Sorry , I did n't write the paper . " However , if the presenter is at least partially knowledgeable , in a way that they prepared the presentation well ( together with the original authors ! ) , it is fully acceptable if the presenter can not provide an answer for every very specific question , as long as they can sufficiently describe the gist of the research . 1 : Scheduling conflicts , visa issues , illness , or restrictive travel funds come to mind .
I will address the final question you ask -- if it 's fair for instructors to write an exam but point to other material to study . The primary ethical issue here is the question of intent : why did the instructor tell you to review the particular material . If this was an intentional effort to mislead students , and to feed them " false " information in order to catch them unprepared , I would say that it is somewhat unethical . ( In other words , if you were told you would n't be responsible for something on the exam when the instructor knew it would be , that 's wrong . ) However , if the instructor gave " recommendations " -- along the lines of " it might be good to know X , Y , and Z " -- then there 's really nothing wrong with that . Telling you exactly what to do defeats the purpose of a university education , which is to learn how to learn ! Ultimately , the instructor should not be spoonfeeding you information which you then regurgitate on the final exam . And I would further argue that if all you 're doing is memorizing information , as you suggest , then you 're also not really accomplishing much , since such information is very likely to be " dumped " from memory once the semester is over .
Are there any techniques I could use to determine whether an essay that I suspect was written by someone else , but not published elsewhere , is a student 's own work ? Ask the student to come to your office hours or a private meeting . Then , say : " I was really impressed by your recent paper , it was an excellent piece of work ! Let 's discuss it some more . " Student who did the work will be able to discuss said work intelligently . Student who did n't do the work is unlikely to be able to carry on an intelligent conversation about said work . ( This still is n't proof of any kind , and you ca n't accuse student of cheating without some evidence - but if you 're lucky , student will at least be spooked enough to never do it again . ) Are there any steps I can take to ensure I do n't receive questionable essays in the first place ? Assign essays that are a few steps beyond , but still closely tied to , what 's been discussed in class , such that somebody who was n't in the class will not be able to produce the kind of essay you 're expecting ( the effectiveness of this depends very much on the subject matter ) .
Send him a message Even if you think you know the only truth , maybe there is something you do n't know about this award . If there is no response in . . let 's say 48 hours , let 's go to phase 2 EDIT : concerning the timing , @O . R.Mapper is right , if he is on a vacation ... bad luck . Send a message to the committee They gave the award , so explain the situation , and ask them to put on their website the name of the winner for each year . Explain why you want this . If the commitee is reacting ( if not , will be hard : / ) Send a ( still ) polite mail to the cuprit and tell him he MUST remove what he puts online . No response ? let 's go to the last part Write to his university Even if you think they might not care , it 's still a graduate student , it 's bad for the reputation of the university to have graduate student with a bad behaviors . EDIT : as said by @CaptainEmacs , do NOT to accuse someone , even if you 're sure it is the truth . Tell politely that you think he might have mistaken , that is all . I think that 's the proper way to do it .
In the US , under FERPA , institutions of higher education ( rules are different for K12 education ) are required to define what pieces of information about a student are " directory information . " This typically includes the name , address , and phone number of a student and may include other information such as the student 's dates of attendance , major , and any degrees that the student has been awarded . The list of what items constitute directory information has to be made available to students , and students have the option of to keep this directory information confidential . Other more detailed information ( such as courses taken , grades , class rank , etc. ) is automatically confidential and can only be released after an explicit waiver from the student . If a student has chosen to make their directory information confidential , then the university wo n't confirm or deny that the student has any connection to the institution . if the student has n't opted for confidentiality , then the registrar 's office will typically provide the directory information when asked . There are good reasons for this protection . For example , consider the situation of a student who has been the victim of domestic violence and is hiding from an abusive family member . The abuser could call the university , talk them into providing the student 's contact information and then use it to track down the student and harm the student in some way . On the flip side , this confidentiality provision can cause problems with reference checks for former students . If a student chose confidentiality and years later an employer calls the university and asks " Did John Doe complete a BS degree at your institution ? " The institution would have to say " We can neither confirm nor deny this . " In my experience , a fairly significant percentage of students ( maybe 10 to 20 % ) at my institution opt for confidentiality of their directory information . Given the problems that this can cause with reference checking , I 'm somewhat surprised by how many students opt for confidentiality . In general , the office to ask would be the registrar 's office . They regularly handle requests from people who are conducting reference checks and background investigations .
How mathematicians collaborate depends ( among other things ) on their career stage . At the student level , the most common kind of collaboration could be more accurately described as a form of mentorship : you are working with a more senior guide , and that they mean to help you with your work and professional development is a key feature . This is different from the kind of collaboration you do ( in most cases ) one you get past the student / postdoc stage . At that point it is fair and only natural for someone who is considering collaborating with you to ask " What 's in it for me ? " The path of most graduate students is one of decreasing collaboration of the mentorship type ( in math , mentorship collaborations do not always result in the mentor being the coauthor , so e.g. it is not necessarily viewed as inconsistent for an advisor to talk about " our work " when the final product is a paper written only by the student ) and increasing independence from your mentors . Your trajectory sounds a bit different in that you already have solo papers ( although , as in the previous parenthetical , that may not describe the whole story ) . Another feature of student research -- the key feature , really -- is that whether your advisor is joining you in doing the mathematics or not , she is supposed to be involved in helping you choose problems to work on that she finds , by virtue of her greater knowledge / experience / cultural familiarity / political savvy , to be especially worthwhile and significant . A student who works on a problem for a while with no significant progress raises a little red flag in my head . One must ask : why are you not working solely on problems that either you know you are making progress on or your advisor is there to help you make progress on ? In our department there is absolutely no one interested in that subject . Another little red flag . What you are doing is not inherently bad but seems more risky than normal . I fear you are getting less than the standard amount of " mentorship collaboration " and I think you should consider moving somewhere else ( as a student , or possibly graduating ASAP and taking a postdoc ) where you can benefit from that . Anyway , there is a different kind of mathematical collaboration . ( By the way , @Significance has done a good job of describing it in her answer . But I want to write as a mathematician and in some more detail . ) If you want to start a collaboration with someone of this other sort , then typically this is founded on either significantly overlapping research interests or complementary skill sets , approaches and/or partial results . Maybe while reading a draft of a paper you see how to strengthen one of the results . In this case you can ( perhaps ) get added as a coauthor on a later draft , and especially if you are joining more than one other author this can be a good way to piggyback onto a longer term collaboration already in progress . <URL> is an example of mine . Maybe you have a draft of a paper and you see that your Theorem 2 is a variant of their Theorem 5 , so joining forces is a natural choice , if only for reasons of smoothing out the publication process . <URL> is an example of such a collaboration of my own , in which we each had overlapping manuscripts that we combined . I was happy with the resulting paper , which is a little more than the sum of its parts , and remain on good terms with the coauthor , but that was the extent of the collaboration . Maybe you discover that someone whom you previously did not know ( e.g. a recent PhD ) is working in the same area as you , or even on the same problem . Learning that someone else has been working on the same problem as you and that you each have partial results which have been obtained using ( even mildly ) different ideas and techniques can be immensely helpful . If each person 's perspective is rich enough so that the other can not readily incorporate it just by reading the other 's work , then this is often the beginning of a very fruitful collaboration . <URL> is an example of mine . Or maybe you run into " someone new " and discover that you both have aspirations to work on the same thing , and though you do n't have finished product , you each like the sound of the other 's ideas and think it will be better to work together . This is one of the purer forms of collaboration , but it seems to require a rather fortuitous set of circumstances . <URL> is an example of mine . Maybe you have a really attractive half of a result , and you 're looking for someone with distinctly complementary skills and/or results to form an attractive whole . Again , this can be hard to swing , but it 's satisfying when it works . <URL> is an example of mine . In this case , I had 2/3 of a new proof of a theorem , so I wrote a mass email to my own mathematics department asking if everyone could help me out . One of the other students in the department wrote back within a few weeks with an answer . I added a lot of other material , wrote the en
Remember the guiding principle of maximum ease in following a reference . If you do n't know which author , cite primarily to the book . From " Book title " , by x , y , and z In fact , even if there is only one author , it is good to cite the book .
This may be subject-dependent , but my impression is that it is certainly not like that in mathematics ( my subject ) . I come from New Zealand and would probably like to return to live there eventually , but I 'm expecting to have to do at least one more postdoc ( I 'm already on my second , but my first was just one year ) before I have any chance of a permanent job there . ( And I do know people there who I think probably like me and , more importantly , are interested in my research . ) There are so few universities in New Zealand ( eight , but one is small and primarily agricultural , I think ) that there are by no means anywhere near enough academic jobs available to employ all New Zealanders with PhDs and postdocs from ' good ' universities . Still , I can imagine that if your student does indeed ' know people who like him ' in New Zealand , his chances may very well be better there than for US universities of comparable standard ( this is assuming that ' liking him ' partly includes being impressed with his academic work ) .
Echoing the other good comments and answer , I 'd encourage you to think in terms of " forthrightness " , rather than compliance to semi-random formal criteria . Think of the function of your citations , and thinking of the idealized version of scholarship and such . The goal is not conformity to style guides , but useful contributions to human knowledge , blah-blah-blah , ;) But , yes , that should be the way to think about such questions . To my taste , citations in-line should be sufficient so that the reader does not have to " flip to the end " to see what " [ 46 ] " is . The space spent on fuller references is a good investment !!! That is , yet again , if one thinks that the function of one 's writing is to help the reader , all in-line references would be optimally helpful , as opposed to " proper-and-possibly-unhelpful " .
You need to cite the book , as that vouches for the provenance of the image ( including that it is of who it is claimed to be ) . If I 'd done that retouching myself , I would n't mention it as it does n't change the content ( it 's effectively undoing some of the effects of scanning an old image ) . A " ( retouched ) " might be appropriate , and certainly " ( enhanced to show ... ) " if that was what you 'd done . If someone else had retouched images specifially for a paper I was writing , they 'd deserve an acknowledgement , so here they deserve a mention . I would cite the original still , but with a note ( or the equivalent in your referencing style ) . Something like " ( via <URL> , retouched by user Garrondo ) " should be sufficient for academic propriety ( and should cover the CC requirements were that an issue ) .
I teach physics at a community college and have been on a number of hiring committees for full-time positions , as well as participating in a bunch of hires of part-timers . Different departments and different individuals have different priorities . Some full-timers who have a master 's might actually feel threatened by a PhD applying for a part-time position . Often we get applications , for both full - and part-time positions , from people with PhD 's that clearly show that the applicant has no real interest in teaching and thinks it should be easy to get a community college job as a fallback . A PhD will typically be somewhat of an advantage in applying for a part-time job , especially if the course to be taught is at a high academic level ( e.g. , differential equations ) . The bigger problem is your lack of teaching experience . There is a lot of randomness involved , and you can maximize your chances if you 're in a big urban area and apply for a lot of jobs . Sometimes a full-timer gets sick or there is some other last-minute reason to hire someone to teach a class . In these emergency situations , you basically have to be available , meet the minimum qualifications , and give a non-disastrous interview . The fact that you want to teach in the evening is a good thing . Many full-timers do n't want to teach evening classes , so often those are the hardest to find a teacher for . I think MHH is right that this discussion is going to be more valuable if we widen it to include full-time positions . For full-time positions , the value of a PhD seems to vary greatly . At my school , for example , the math department has 3 PhD 's and 27 people with masters ' , while the natural science division has 21 with PhD 's and 11 with masters ' . One department clearly considers a PhD more important than the other does . This may be partly because the math department 's offerings are bottom-heavy with remedial classes . For a full-time position , there will typically be a list of minimum qualifications , which are set by law , and a list of desirable qualifications . The two biggies on the list of desirable qualifications are teaching experience and a PhD . It helps if you have both . When we hire for a part-time position , we 're hiring someone to teach a specific course . If the course is low level , then we do n't care as much about whether the candidate has a PhD . When we hire a full-timer , theoretically we want someone who can teach every course their department offers , but realistically we usually have something more specific in mind . When someone with a master 's is hired full-time , usually that person ends up getting slotted into teaching gen ed courses , remedial courses , or other low-level courses for the rest of their career . Many people are very happy in such a slot , e.g. , I hear that many folks in math see teaching remedial math as their ideal job , and they have no interest at all in teaching calculus .
Yeah , copying 25 % of a prior paper without attribution is definitely self-plagiarism . Report it to the program chairs of the conference , and let them sort out how to manage the problem from there . Additional information , for any coming from different publication cultures : electrical engineering / computer science conferences are serious publications that take originality very seriously , and <URL> on the matter is quite explicit .
It depends on how the figure is being used . If it is for non-commercial purposes -- e.g. , in a scientific journal to support a study -- then it will likely fall under the ' fair use ' provision . If it is for commercial purposes , such as a book that you are seeking to publish , then it is likely considered commercial purposes , and you will need to work out the permissions . <URL>
Use a license . Different open science journals/repositories/etc . allow you to license your publication ( s ) / data/etc . Some allow you to choose a license ; others do not . Others may have different repositories . For example , <URL> gives submitters <URL> : arXiv does not ask that copyright be transferred . However , we require sufficient rights to allow us to distribute submitted articles in perpetuity . In order to submit an article to arXiv , the submitter must either : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . The <URL> journal has <URL> : All papers are made freely available under an open access model immediately on publication at the Royal Society Open Science website and are deposited in PubMed Central on behalf of the author . Under a Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY 4.0 ) , authors retain copyright for their article but allow anyone to download , reuse , reprint , modify , distribute , and/or copy articles provided the original authors and source are cited . Once a license is chosen , all that remains is to enforce the license , which is simple enough . License enforcement is up to the holder of the license . If you choose the first of arXiv 's options , then the responsibility is arXiv 's ; if you license the work under one of the Creative Commons licenses , then the responsibility is yours . The enforcer of the license general is not required to enforce it if he/she/it so desires ( see <URL> on Open Source for more information , although that covers the GPL license , which is not applicable here ) . It 's typically in the best interests of the license holder to enforce the license , but there is no requirement . If you want to make sure that the license is enforced , then you would be best off keeping the license yourself .
Just send a polite email stating that you found another position or that you simply prefer to take a different direction . Be sure to thank the professor for the time he has put into you . The email does not have to be long , but it should give a reason . You do not need to be overly elaborate , though . And do n't forget to be polite . The thing you do not realise is that the professor wants to find a student who will be committed to his topic for several years to come . If you are not such a student , it is best for the professor to know that before taking you on as a student . In a sense , you are doing the professor a favour by withdrawing .
end question
start question
Is there any reason to register the copyright to your PhD dissertation with the US Copyright Office ?
Registering a copyright with the US Copyright Office is a legal formality that establishes a public record of your claim to the work . It is mainly useful if , in the future , you want to sue someone who infringes your copyright . Specifically , Before an infringement suit may be filed in court , registration is necessary for works of U.S. origin . If made before or within five years of publication , registration will establish prima facie evidence in court of the validity of the copyright and of the facts stated in the certificate . If registration is made within three months after publication of the work or prior to an infringement of the work , statutory damages and attorney 's fees will be available to the copyright owner in court actions . Otherwise , only an award of actual damages and profits is available to the copyright owner . These and some other similar benefits are described in this <URL> from the US Copyright Office . Based on your post , you seem to have some misconceptions about how copyright works . Note that : Even if you do not register the copyright , the work is still copyrighted . In the United States and many other countries , a creative work is protected by copyright automatically as soon as it is written down or otherwise placed in a fixed medium . Even if you do register the copyright , you can still make the work available under a permissive license , such as a Creative Commons license . See <URL> for more information . For example , with <URL> you can choose to allow most non-commercial uses of your work as long as it is attributed to you , but still prohibit others from <URL> . You mentioned that you want to " let people use my work and cite me appropriately . " Copyright does not prevent people from doing either of those things . Even if you reserve all rights under copyright , people are still free to use the ideas in your thesis . Copyright only protects your expression of your ideas , i.e. the words or images you used to express your ideas . So copyright prohibits people from copying large parts of your thesis verbatim into their own , or from posting copies of your thesis on another website ( unless you choose to allow those things by assigning a permissive license to the work ) , but not from building on your work ( and citing you ) . See <URL> for more information . You wrote " a thesis should not be copyrighted simply because I think of it as an extended paper . " The vast majority of papers are also copyrighted .
In my experience , a lot of academics tend to shy away from things like a pizza party . I would suggest thinking about things that connect common interests . For example , consider starting a book club on some relatively broad topic of interest , or a group where folks read and comment on each other 's work . These kind of things can be really valuable of they ring together folks from different specalizations . It is always good to get a different perspective . As another example , think about setting up a brown bag lecture series . These can be great ways to get folks out of their offices and talking . Beyond this , I would generaly suggest not trying to set up events that have 150 people invited . Think smaller and more targeted .
I think you can do research in your own time , but I think getting your work published is hard where you are not affiliated with a university or research institute . You have the advantage that you will not use precious resources from the institute as you will be doing the research in your own time , but you probably do not have a large amount of priority over the normal PhD 's and postdocs . I think you should write a research plan , i.e. where do you want to go with your research . Writing such a proposal will show a supervisor you are serious and have some research skills ( provided the proposal is any good ) . Once you have a number of publications , molding those into a PhD thesis is quite possible . In the Netherlands for example it is quite normal to bundle your papers , and write an introduction and summary as your PhD thesis . I do think performing research next to a normal job can be challenging , as research tends to take a lot of time . So be prepared to let your PhD take 10 + years ( possibly making it obsolete ) , or sacrifice a lot of spare/family time .
In Computer Science , CiteSeerX used to provide a Venue Impact Factor , that included journals and conferences , but it seems they 've stopped doing it . As indicated by Gopi , Microsoft academic Research is some kind of global ranking , and JeffE also mentions google.scholar . That being said , a global ranking , across sub-fields , is not necessarily meaningful . For instance , if one does not work on programming languages , then it 's unlikely to submit a paper at POPL ( the first venue according to CiteseerX ) . Hence , I 'd say that field-specific rankings matter more , for instance in security : <URL> or <URL> .
An embargo effectively withholds your dissertation from being placed on your institution 's open-access dissertation archive ( from which anyone can view/download your dissertation ) . I have placed an embargo on my dissertation so that I may attempt to get a few more papers published without my dissertation being searchable on the web . It is a common practice in the department where I did my PhD ( though , I wondered sometimes if it was really necessary ) . For a more complete list of reasons why one would choose to place an embargo on their dissertation , I 'm listing here an excerpt taken from a <URL> page : Embargos may be appropriate for authors 1 ) who are seeking patents , 2 ) who want to publish their work through a traditional press that considers open access publication to be equivalent to prior publication , 3 ) who have published material from their work with a publisher that does not allow open access release for a certain period of time , or 4 ) who need to protect sensitive data or information .
Short answer : No . Long answer : Determining the minimum bar for which a PhD can be awarded is a bad exercise . If you are merely working towards the minimum you will not successfully complete a PhD . One thing to note is that PhDs in the US tend to be open ended ( to the extent you can continue to get funding ) while in Europe they tend to have fixed durations . This means in Europe the bar comes whether you are ready or not while in the US you get to chose when you defend . Neither is easier , just different .
If you do n't have the authority to change the textbook on your own , at least for your own section , then your target should be , not the publisher , but the person or committee that does have that happy power . * Show them this : <URL> and propose that you teach a section of your course using the appropriate open access textbook . ( Edited to add : Pick out the appropriate book and an alternate before you talk to the committee or coordinator and be prepared to defend your choice vs. the approved text . ) In the following semester , compare how well your students did in the next course in sequence vs. those who used the standard text . Your secret weapon : work like hell to be sure your students are well prepared for the next course . In the comments , Ben Crowell has said : " Here is a catalog I maintain of free books , including many open-source textbooks : <URL> " I 've edited it into my answer so it does n't get lost . Thank you , Ben . * Hat tip to Professor Severus Snape for " happy power . "
The publisher allows uploading preprint versions ( including revisions after reviewer comments ) If you 're allowed to do it , you are allowed to do it . To be 100 % sure , check the text of the copyright transfer agreement , where these policies are spelt out . Or , if you do n't like reading legal text so much , it is summarized for many publishers in a nice color code at <URL> .
From the <URL> : NSF rarely provides support to foreign organizations . NSF , however , will consider proposals for cooperative projects involving U.S. and foreign organizations , provided support is requested only for the U.S. portion of the collaborative effort . For further information , contact the Office of International Science and Engineering . ( Reference GPG Chapter I.E. 6 . ) Individual funding opportunities list specific eligibility requirements . These generally say something like " The PI must hold an appointment at an eligible US institution . " There is an <URL> specifically devoted to encouraging international collaboration , and there are often specific funding opportunities earmarked for collaboration with a particular country . You 'll find examples of many such opportunities on the linked page . Having said that , it 's not impossible for NSF money to trickle down to foreign researchers . For example , I am at a US institution and I participate in a project supported by the NSF , in which our budget includes a subcontract arrangement involving researchers in Australia . As far as the NSF is concerned , this money is paid to a US institution ( mine ) , but we are allowed to use some of it to pay our foreign colleagues as subcontractors . ( The details of this arrangement were of course specified up front in our proposal . ) Specific grants may have different requirements with respect to subcontracting to foreign institutions .
The question , although reasonable , seems hard to answer in general terms . Programmatic change is generally not done by individual faculty members in a department , but by groups and/or committees of them , in confluence with the department Chair/Head . Many programmatic changes do not " go through " the Dean -- in particular " day to day " business usually does not -- but those involving nontrivial financial changes usually do . For all but the smallest colleges it is rare for individual faculty members other than the Head to have substantive conversations with the Dean about such things : again , it would be better if they went through the department as a whole and/or the Head . When it comes to financial outlays that must be approved by the Dean : I 've seen plenty of instances where the Dean approves but " just does n't have the money , " so I would have to think that even mild disapproval of the initiative would sink it pretty thoroughly . Perhaps the most useful thing I can say is : look at where the program is now and look at where it was in the recent past . If you are really unhappy with the current position or the perceived trajectory of the department , then you should not count on being happy with it in the future ( no matter who the Dean is ) . Conversely , if those look reasonably good to you , talk with the faculty and see how they feel about the future . If there 's some important change coming around the bend , I hope they will let you know . But it is more likely that being in the department for the next ten years or so will be roughly like having been in the department for the last ten years or so . The Dean does not reside in the department , so unless s/he is actively at war with the members and interests of the department , some disagreement in the overall vision need not affect the actual working life of a professor in the department unduly . By the way , the bit about the Dean " may leave in the next 5 years " sounds way too vague to take seriously . Maybe s/he will and maybe s/he wo n't . If s/he does , maybe the next Dean will be better or maybe worse . It is very hard to plan for the future with regard to this kind of thing : honestly , I probably would n't even try .
Unfortunately the name of the reference style is in general Journal X 's style . Even journals that claim to stick to a standard style ( e.g. , APA , MLA , Chicago ) often throw in little twists . In general I find that if you get close , journals are pretty forgiving and will copy edit you to the correct style . Basically you want your in text citations to follow either an author-number ( Vancouver ) or author-date ( Harvard ) style . As for the list of citations , just make sure it has all the information that the journal uses ( e.g. , DOI if the journal uses it ) .
The majority of the question 's text concerns minutiae about syllabi and percentages that are unlikely to be of interest to anyone except the OP . The question would be significantly improved by eliding / summarizing this information and concentrating on the core question : What happens when multiple , conflicting syllabi are given out for the same course ? Does the student have a legitimate grievance when one syllabus is being followed but not the other , at the expense of his grade ? I think these are reasonable questions for our site . My answer to the first question is : yikes . Three different instructors for the same course , three different syllabi , and one of the instructors ( the chair ! ) does not even know about both of the other syllabi ? What a mess . In general having courses taught by more than one faculty member makes things harder and necessitates much more explicit , advanced planning . This course does not sound well-planned . As soon as you get talk about which syllabus is more " official " than the others , things are not going well . I do n't think there is a standard , easy answer to this question , and I do n't see any coherent answer which does not admit mistakes on the part of the faculty . On the other hand I wonder why this issue did not come up earlier in the course : on the first day of class every student was in possession of two contradictory syllabi and no one noticed ? I find that curious and am not sure what to make of it . My answer to the second question is : yes , I think so . If you show up to some higher administrative official with two syllabi in hand and say that you want to be held to the standard of the syllabus you were given first , you have a good shot at getting some traction on this . However I would encourage you to try to resolve the matter as non-combatively as possible : if you are a graduate student in the program , getting the chair chewed out by ( say ) her dean is likely to have some effect on your course grade , but it may have other , less pleasant effects down the line . I would begin by doing what you have already done : clearly pointing out the discrepancy between the two syllabi and the significant effect it may/will have on your course grade . You should indicate that you proceeded in the course with an understanding based on the first syllabus that you received and that you would like this to be taken into account in the course grade . Give them a chance to do this for you before you escalate the situation . Finally , the business about the 75 belonging to two grade ranges : in my opinion you look petty by bringing that up at all ( look at the reaction your question has received ) . The purpose of the grading system being spelled out in advance is for students to be sure they are treated fairly and to be able to have some rough means of predicting what kind of performance will lead to what kind of grade . There is nothing that you or any student would have done differently if 75 belongs to one grade range rather than the other . I agree with other commenters who said that the time you spent complaining about that would be better spent learning the material and improving your performance in the course . Mixing legitimate , serious grading concerns with " grade-grubbing " is not a good strategy .
The quality of the department has much more influence on the degree than the " famousness " of the campus -- whether it is a " main " campus or a " branch " campus . For instance , in my field , Chemical Engineering , the University of California has two departments that are widely acknowledged to be top ten : Berkeley and Santa Barbara . A degree from either of these schools would be recognized as essentially equal ; degrees from campuses like Davis or Los Angeles would be slightly less well received , but still be considered good . So , to some extent , it 's more the issue of the resources available at a given department , and its reputation within the community as a whole , that makes the difference . The campus as a whole is a distant second . ( As a similar example , the University of Minnesota is recognized as a top-five program in my field ; nobody would rank UMN as top five nationwide overall . )
It depends of what you mean by " an alternative " . If you mean an alternative to publish your article , you can certainly find other journals that do n't require that you grant them exclusive rights . Generally , that would mean an open-acess journal using the Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY ) . Prime examples are the major OA publishers : PLOS , BioMed Central , and Hindawi . If you mean publishing in a particular journal that requires coypright transfer , the answer is that granting them exclusive publishing rights is a publication condition , so that you ca n't avoid it . So what you gain in signing is ... to have your article published by that journal . What you loose is highly variable among publishers . Often , they ( who are now the copyright owners by virtue of the agreement ) allow you ( the authors ) to keep some " rights " ( I prefer to speak of " permissions " ) . Some publishers are quite generous , others not at all ; you must carefully read the copyright agreement to know exactly what you will be able to do with your article . Note also that some publishers ask ( or propose as an option ) an exclusive license instead of copyright transfer . Sometimes , they describe it as an advantage for authors , who keep the copyright on their work . But the truth is that some of these licenses give the publishers about the same rights as a complete copyright transfer , so that copyright ownership becomes an almost empty concept . See , for instance , Wiley , <URL> without any difference in the actual rights transferred . Again , one has to carefully read the publication agreement . Finally , in theory , one can always suggest changes in a copyright agreement , for instance deleting part of the text or adding some . There is also the <URL> , that you can attach to the copyright agreement , asking the publisher that you want to keep non-commercial use rights . The publisher may then accept these changes ( usually by not responding , and publishing the article anyway ) , or refuse them . From what I read , there are both success and failure stories in that regard .
In general , I would argue that the new plot needs to do one of two things : present materially different content relative to the old image present the same material in a different context . Graphs are generally visual representations of numerical data . The numerical data itself can not be copyrighted ( because the data are " facts " ) , only the presentations thereof . However , simply changing axis labels or colors , and other similar " gloss " changes , do n't really make the graph any different . Rotating a 3D graph , or changing significantly the relationship of blocks in a mind map or diagram to show off different features would represent a change in the message and presentation , and therefore would be OK . However , chemical structures and mathematical equations are not normally considered subject to copyright , as they represent " facts , " and can not be arbitrarily drawn or represented ; there 's only so many " legal " ways to write them . That said , cutting and pasting somebody 's figure from another article would be a copyright violation ; recreating it yourself would not . ( Otherwise , we would never be able to write E = mc ^ 2 without it being a copyright violation ! ) If there are doubts , however , you can always try to contact the journal in question . If needed , you can ask for permission to reuse a figure , especially if it 's one you 've already created . Most journals already permit self reuse , so long as you include an appropriate credit and citation of the original .
This answer is about the US only . United States copyright law has a concept called " <URL> . " The copyright of a work for hire belongs to the employer , if the work fits in one of the following categories : 1 ) a work prepared by an employee within the scope of his or her employment ; or ( 2 ) a work specially ordered or commissioned for use as a contribution to a collective work , as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work , as a translation , as a supplementary work , as a compilation , as an instructional text , as a test , as answer material for a test , or as an atlas , if the parties expressly agree in a written instrument signed by them that the work shall be considered a work made for hire . Materials such as lecture notes or scholarly papers have traditionally never been considered works for hire . This is sometimes referred to as the " <URL> . " For some history and explanation , see <URL> . There are a couple of legal precedents described in the same AAUP article , Weinstein v. University of Illinois and Hays v. Sony Corp. . These court decisions say that materials like scholarly papers are not a " requirement or duty " of the job , and that a school does n't " supervise its faculty " in writing this kind of thing . A later Supreme Court ruling in 1989 , <URL> , was not specifically about academic work , but is important because it changed the criteria that had been assumed in Weinstein . The 2006 case <URL> reaffirmed the teacher exception , but may have had a negative effect on teachers ' rights because it held that fair use applied to lectures . The AAUP article also describes some good reasons why the school probably does n't even want ownership of the copyright . It is not well positioned to benefit from ownership , and ownership could entangle it in legal disputes . Many schools have policies in which they attempt to lay out what they consider to be a work for hire . These policies have little legal force , because under US law , work for hire is defined by the law . A work can not be made into a work for hire by the unilateral declaration of an employer that it is so , and even an agreement between the employer and employee may have no legal effect . Usually a school 's policies simply reads like a summary of the law and historical practices . All of this was basically settled law for many decades , until distance education became a big thing . At that point , many schools started to envision an online course as a type of commodity that they could own and exploit , and they started to get more aggressive about trying to call online course materials works for hire . But in general , any lectures , slides , textbooks , or scholarly articles you write belong to you and not your school , and this is true regardless of whether the school posts a policy on its web site claiming otherwise , and even regardless of whether they get you to sign a contract stating otherwise . You are on the strongest ground if your work is not written to the school 's specification and if the school never had any say over whether the result was OK . Putting your byline or a copyright message on materials such as lecture slides has no real effect on anything . You own the copyright automatically as soon as an original , copyright-eligible work is written down , assuming it 's not a work for hire . By modern copyright law , the only real purpose of a copyright notice is that if you have to sue an infringer , it makes it harder for them to make the defense that they did n't know the work was copyrighted -- but that 's a flimsy defense in any case , since copyright is automatic these days . If you want to prevent the university from using your materials under the fair use exception to copyright , an <URL> of Bosch v Ball-Kell gives the following guidance : This case also suggests that publishing teaching materials , documented plans to use them in research or a textbook , or other demonstration of market value can give faculty greater control of their teaching materials if a dispute arises over them .
I do n't think the professor minds too much , but you should of course be prepared for him to decline if he chooses to . Though I myself could hardly care less , I have colleagues who would definitely think unsuitable ( because it 's not how it 's planned ) . However , I think the other students might mind , as you noted , if they began to see it as you " stealing " time from their limited allocation . As always , sharing is no problem unless the resource is scarce :) So , in short , I do n't think it 's a big problem , given that you are mindful of others .
The United Nations University does not really work as a normal university , but rather as a research center . The difference is that they recruit students from developing countries as for a period that can go from several months to a year , in order to make them work on concrete research projects , so that they can gain experience ( which can help them to apply for a Master of PhD program somewhere else ) . For instance , this a <URL> for students at the UNU-IIST ( International Institute for Software Technology ) . Note that the UNU-IIST also plan to offer a joint <URL> with the University of Pisa . Note also that it seems that each institute of the UNU is to some extent independent , so maybe other institutes provide more academic programs . So , to answer your questions , technically speaking there are students at the UNU ( when I was working at the UNU-IIST , there were something between 10 and 20 students ) , but they are not " enrolled " by the UNU , it 's more like some kind of internship .
A copyright exists on your original work from the moment it is created and fixed in a tangible form . No marking or registration is needed . Here in the US , this may be helpful : <URL> ( In 1989 , the US became a party to the <URL> , now followed by 171 countries . So the law here should be similar to where you live . But check your government 's site or with an IP attorney if a lot is at stake . )
When I use a running example ( as I frequently do ) , I just call it a running example . I do n't know any reason why that would n't be a good enough term .
end question
start question
How to answer the question " Why do you deserve a scholarship ? " when applying for a scholarship ?
Committee must be convinced that the money will be well used . It would look best if you told you would invest the money to become better at the field of your studies ( buy literature , go to conferences , pay for some courses or certifications , publishing your articles in journals ) . However , trying to look perfect could backfire . In my country it would be reasonable if you wrote that part of the scholarship would be spent on something not related to education . But that depends on the country , culture , traditions , committee members etc. . You must also convince the committee that you will do good in studies . That is why you should mention your study results and achievements . You must convince the committee that you like the field of your studies , you are passionate and will keep working hard . If your studies have helped you at your work , mention that . Also mention your short and long term goals - educational and professional . You can also mention your strongest characteristics and give arguments . ( example : leadership abilities , you lead a student team in project x which was successful . ) The motivation letter as a whole is the answer to the question " Why do you deserve a scholarship ? " edit # 1 : I changed the part about spending scholarship money on something not education related , because of the comment by Trylks .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
In my experience , citation counts are considerably less important than recommendation letters , but they still matter , especially for tenure . For fresh PhDs , high citation counts are definitely helpful , but they 're not a hiring requirement for most fields in CS . But for tenure , it 's really hard to build a successful case without at least one high-impact ( post-thesis ) publication . Smart committees know to gather citation counts , publication counts , acceptance rates , impact factors , h-indices , and other quasi-objective numerical data from reasonable sources and to compare them with peers in the applicant 's field . ( For my promotion cases , for example , my citation counts were mined from Google Scholar , not ISI , and I was compared against other theoretical computer scientists , not other computational-geometers-who-play-with-surface-graphs . ) Alas , not every committee is smart .
" Scholarship " is effectively a synonym for " research " . Send something like : a published paper a preprint of an unpublished paper your thesis , or one or more chapters from it Your advisor may have advice as to what would be best .
I 'd go back and consult one of those " How to teach " books you 've probably got lying around and focus on doing a good job of stating the course 's Learning Objectives . Then , I 'd make sure that the course material , the learning activities and assessment tasks are properly aligned with those objectives . I would then make sure the students get to see those objectives and to understand how what they will be doing fits with those objectives . I would design some sample assessment activities , such as sample exam questions ( if that is one of your planned means of assessment ) . Then I would make sure that the content of your course is sufficient to enable students to do such assignments or answer such questions . <URL> is an excellent resource for helping you do this . And it never hurts to refresh your didactic skills .
How do you take the absent students names ? I do n't . If a student finds my lectures boring or useless , they should n't waste their time coming to class . ( As others point out , there are very good reasons to require attendance in laboratory - , studio - , and discussion-based classes . ) How do prepare your materials ? Coffee and LaTeX . Lots of coffee and LaTeX . How do you write a syllabus for students and do you hand them out ? When I started out , I modified the syllabus from the previous iteration of the course , which was taught by an experienced instructor , so I could be sure to include all the necessary details . I used to hand out the syllabus on the first day of class , but now I just post it on the well-advertised course web site . What computer programs do you use to plan your lessons ? I write everything in LaTeX ( specifically , TeXShop ) and distribute everything as PDF files on the course web site . ( See the first question . ) I also use SubEthaEdit to edit the course web pages themselves .
Search the web for it : open archives , search engine , authors webpages , whatever ( you 've probably done that already ... ) Ask the contact author for a copy , which she 'll usually be very happy to provide . I regularly get such requests from other researchers in my field , and it feels very good to know that people are actually interested in your work . If the contact author does n't respond , try the senior author , then other authors . Try your local library . Look into their database , and also ask the librarian there if the document might be available through loan from other libraries . I 've never had much success doing that , but you never know ... Ask a few colleagues at different institutions if they can get it for free ( see <URL> ) . If you have friends at large/famous/well-funded US universities ( Princeton , Harvard , ... ) , they probably have a more comprehensive access than you . If it 's a really important paper , pay for it ! Whatever happens , make sure you make a copy for others in your lab/group , and archive it . When I started my PhD , there was a folder ( the heavy paper type , not the computer type ) labeled " important but hard to find papers " that the group had accumulated along the years . It was the most treasured object in the whole lab .
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
It may be useful to take a slightly larger perspective , rather than comparing just business vs. STEM . While there is a great degree of variation around the world and from program to program , most higher-level degree funding can be clustered into three general categories : Doctoral degrees in STEM fields are generally funded by universities or external agencies . Terminal " professional " degrees , including <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. frequently expect students to be responsible for their own funding , often going deeply into debt to do so . Doctoral degrees in humanities and liberal arts fields are in-between , where sometimes students are supported or partially supported and other times they are not . There 's a great deal of variation , of course . For example , I believe that the education of medical doctors is supported by some nations ( though I lack a reference at the moment ) . Likewise , Masters degrees are sometimes considered a " professional degree " that students are expected to fund , while other times they are lumped in with STEM doctoral degrees and funded by the university or other sources . So , why should this be the case ? It seems to me that a lot of this is simply independently developing markets : STEM students are typically expected to contribute significantly to the investigation of science and engineering as part of their training , and since these contributions can be very valuable in those markets , it makes sense for external funding agencies to include students in their funding . Professional degrees are often coupled with very high post-graduation salaries , while the training period is much more one-way , with the students spending most of their time learning rather than making novel ( and readily fundable ) contributions . Humanities and liberal arts are also quite important societally , but they are not currently associated with markets flush with capital and an easy set of incentives to pour money into schools either during the program ( as with STEM ) or afterward ( as with professional degrees ) . As such , they have generally developed much more ad hoc and patchwork approaches to funding degrees .
I mean if I was a very smart researcher , and discovered something that no-one has known before , then first thing for me would be to create a company and sell it . Come on , do you even think it is so easy for someone to start a company and start making money ? The skills needed to make a product ( corporate world ) are different from those necessary to create an idea ( academia ) . A simple well-thought out , well-exposited algorithm may bring plaudits in academia , but in the industry you need to implement the algorithm as a small part of a large system , subject it to rigorous testing , find people to market the product and suitable customers to buy , etc. . And then there is the whole HR team which has to do its thing ... Patents are the way to go if you have to make money from a smart idea in the academia . ( EDIT : Generally , both the University and the inventor share equitably the royalties and other income arising out of inventions <URL> . ) Professors do engage themselves in collaborative work with the industry ; at times , they are funded by the university for setting up small companies ( see <URL> . ) . The lifestyles of people in the academia and the industry are vastly different ; for one , professors have much more freedom with respect to timings than in the industry and afford greater time for their family - not a bad thing in exchange for money , after all . Successful researchers in academia are unlikely to quibble about low income compared to people in the industry . Happiness versus money is a concave function - beyond a point , more money is unlikely to make one happier .
You stop reading books cover to cover when you do n't need all the information between the covers of the books . If you take a textbook on topology and flip to the middle , it will probably be largely uninterpretable because you do n't know the terminology , previously proved theorems , and so on . You can still glance through the chapter on the material that you really need to know to get an idea of what you 're completely missing . If you can select a subset of earlier chapters that let you understand the later one , great ! If not , read the whole thing . If that 's still not enough , get another textbook or talk to someone who knows the subject well . You 'll have to make the call regarding when it 's better to proceed in this way and when it 's more efficient to simply start at the beginning and go through it all . If you need to know something well , this is often the approach to take not because the other would n't work as well in principle , but because in practice the temptation to be less thorough than one really needs to be is often too great .
Academic rank varies by country . But I would expect in most places a letter written by a postdoc would be considered . Selecting letter writers is often a compromise between getting a letter writer who is highly ranked and well known and getting a letter writer who is well informed . Typically one gets both when a postdoc assists a senior faculty member in writing a letter .
Something along the lines that you persisted and managed to graduate despite that the life as you know it was being destroyed in a war-torn county . The hardships of war , hunger , constant fear for safety ( or whatever you feel like sharing ) gave priority to the survival . As the result your grades in the final years suffered . You are eager to continue your education in the safety of whereever you are applying , and ready to give it your all without the distractions of the war . The point you want to make is that you graduated during the whole crisis , which is truly impressive . Congratulations on that . It shows the character and persistence . Grades you can fix .
Complementary to Suresh 's and Peter 's more comprehensive answers that you should definitely take into account : ( +1 to both ) Use ArXiv ; ie . publish it yourself . Go ahead and write your findings down and put them in public . This will be a good exercise as : you will be covered for plagiarism etc. and you 'll be also able to refer other people 's attention to it . It will be immensely easier to attract people attention to something tangible than just referring to " some idea you think it is great " . As Torvalds said : " Talk is cheap . Show me the code . " ( or Maths in your case ) . people you do not know , can actually find you ; or even cite you for that matter . I know a lot of people who regularly read ArXiv papers to keep up to speed with the bleeding edge of stuff . You might be lucky and really get some attention from people that actually care for your work . you will see for yourself if what you wrote can be formulated in a research paper and it does n't come across as some '' back of the envelope '' calculations . You might even identify where feedback from a collaborator would be helpful . If you think you are up to something good , put it up there . Worse case scenario : nobody bothers and you never know if you were right or wrong .
If this is an informal request for internal review -- definitely go ahead . It is common practice to have close associates review work , and your thoughtful comments will gain you respect . If this is a formal invitation from a journal -- it is a clear conflict of interest . It probably should never have been sent to you , quite honestly . This is not to say you could n't provide an unbiased , thoughtful review , but to an outsider this would really be questionable . I suggest you take the high road , decline the invitation , and send a letter to the action editor reminding him of your close association .
Here is roughly the way it works in my department , and I imagine this is fairly typical for math research departments in the US . People apply for postdocs . The faculty review applications . Faculty who are interested in certain candidates push for them . Some committee and/or the chair decides on a ranking of the candidates individual professors are excited about . Offers are made . For 4 , typically getting a postdoc for an emeritus professor will have very low priority , and unless the emeritus prof is active , they probably would n't push for you anyway . I believe that emeriti typically do n't even have permission to look at applications . However , I think it 's a little weird that they require you to name one faculty with common interests . I do n't remember ever seeing this when I applied . ( Is it exactly one ? If not , you could mention regular and emeritus faculty . If so , maybe that is to assign that faculty member to review your application . ) My suggestion ( say if you can only name exactly one ) is to choose a regular ( non-retired ) faculty member , but possibly mention the emeritus professor in your cover letter . If you think the emeritus professor is still active and would be interested in having you there , maybe send them an email to let them know you applied . Then they might discuss your application with other faculty .
Do n't write results you do n't have . Neither in the present , past or future tense . Just do n't do it . Yet , I agree with you that there are circumstances where you do need to write an abstract on on-going work . For example , many big conferences in my field now ask for abstracts to be submitted up to 10 months in advance of the conference itself ! If you are a post-doc staying on a 12-month project , you want to present something but you might not yet know how things will turn out . So , two techniques I propose : Just write about the methodology , and present your goals in a general way , without " predicting " particular results but insisting on the importance of the topic . That is , emphasize strongly your points # 1 and # 2 , and then describe point # 3 as you would your " results " . Things like : In this particular study , we compare the efficiency of methods A and B on given subsets of a reference database . We use a large number of different criteria for measuring efficiency , including ... , ... and ... We also discuss in detail the implementation of subprocess X in method B , because its has not been specifically optimized in the existing literature . I know it sounds vague , but that 's the best you can achieve honestly , without pretending to know what you expect to find . Bait and switch : if you have existing results in a closely related study , you can incorporate them as part of your results . Mix this approach with above , so that you have at least a few specific results to list in your point # 4 . Then , when you will make your presentation , just present your new results alongside the old ( some people would remove completely the old results , but that makes it too much of a " bait and switch " for my taste ) . It is , after all , quite common for people to include newer results in orals/posters that they obtained after the original submission . It is not frowned upon , as long as you keep a decent agreement between the original abstract and the final content .
I would put the logo of the funding agency ( NSF , NASA , etc. ) and the logo of the university where you are doing this research . If your home university is n't involved in any way , then you 're probably fine excluding it .
Yes ! In fact , it would be inappropriate not to ask at least one professor at your current university for a reference letter , as direct evidence of your success .
I do not understand why you find " weird " putting manuscripts in preparation in your CV . In my field , it is perfectly normal and accepted , and I guess in all academia . This is the best way to explain what you did in the last years . It wo n't be strange at all , especially if you have talks on those results already , as you imply in a comment . These things happen ; sometimes papers take a long time to prepare , and a selection committee should be aware of this fact . It would look much weirder , in my view , if you do n't list them and write a long statement in the cover letter about the lack of publications . As they said in ancient Rome , " he who excuses himself unsolicited , accuses himself " .
end question
start question
I attended a poorly ranked school for my undergraduate education . Will this affect my chances for a PhD in economics ?
As the commenters have pointed out , a lot will depend on your ability to get good letters of recommendation . However , there is an important issue to note : a good letter of recommendation does not mean the same thing as " a letter from someone famous . " You can get a letter of recommendation from a big name that is completely useless , if it does n't provide any real information of value about the candidate . Instead , what you want are people who can testify that you are a good student , and show evidence that you can become a good researcher . Since you have excellent records , and are working with a research group before applying to graduate school , I think you have the right groundwork for getting good letters . To make sure that you do so , you 'll want to meet with the people who will be writing the letters , make sure that they are willing and enthusiastic about writing the letters ( hint : if they are at all hesitant , do not get a letter from them ! ) , and then provide them with the necessary material they 'll need ( CV 's , samples of writing and research work , citations and awards , etc. ) to write the letter . Ultimately , the only way attending an unranked school will affect your chances of getting in as a graduate student is if the admissions committee at the school you 're applying to shows such a bias . If you 're concerned about such a possibility , and have the resources ( time , money , motivation ) to do so , setting up a meeting with the person in charge of graduate admissions at the department you 're interested in probably ca n't hurt .
Ask one of your professors or the administration about what the best course of action is . Most likely , you should publish as affiliated to the university as the work was conducted while you were at university . In any case , you have nothing to lose by doing so .
Disclaimer : This is somewhat field-dependent . I 'm answering based on what I believe to be the current situation in computer science / related fields . 1 ) Can you claim authorship given the way things have evolved ? Probably not . 2 ) Would it have been a good idea for him to find a way to include you in the research collaboration so that you could get something out of your work ? Yes . The area of academia in which I work ( * ) is structured so as to value ideas over implementation . In practice , that means that it 's not uncommon for people who write large amounts of code for a project to get little credit for it , which seems inherently unjust . The way sensible people usually handle this is to make sure that people who do a lot of implementation work are given an opportunity to contribute scientifically over and above that - that allows them to justify their authorship in scientific terms , regardless of the fact that they also made significant non-scientific contributions to the overall project . It 's certainly possible to take advantage of implementers by not doing this , but people who do that tend to find themselves doing the implementation work themselves . Bottom line : He should have had the common sense to include you in the scientific collaboration , and if he did n't have that common sense then his supervisor should have suggested it . As an aside , I would view the situation somewhat differently if you already had a publication as a result of your work . In that case , you 've already got the credit for working on the framework , and there 's less of a moral obligation to include you in the new collaboration : instead , they can simply cite you . I 'm certainly not of the view that writing a framework entitles you to be involved in every paper that is ever built on top of that framework - indeed , I 've written frameworks that other people have continued to use for later research , and I would n't expect to be involved with the papers in question . ( * ) As pointed out in the comments , this may not be the case in other fields .
If it is possible , you may want to consider applying to a new program while you are still in your current program . In some sense it will be like a transfer , which may come across as a better move than to withdraw and re-apply to other schools later . Bear in mind that you will need recommendation letters again , and you should be cultivating relationships with professors now with the hope of getting good recommendations . While you can ask the people who wrote your last recommendation letters again , you would need to explain why you did n't get recommendations ( at least one ) from a professor from your current school . If you are in the midst of fruitful research , I would also advise you to try to finish up and put together a paper for publication -- if published , this will also help in future applications , and you do n't want to waste the effort if you can help it . One further caveat : graduate schools sometimes have a cap on how many courses you can transfer from a previous school , and you may find that you have to re-take a number of courses you 've already passed ( and paid for ) . The financial benefit from withdrawing now may not be as good as you hope .
From less esoteric to more ( I 've seen all these things happen ) : Make sure you know how to " send the image to a projector " . Not all laptops do this automatically , and I 'm surprised at how many people do n't know how to do it . I 've also seen people be confused by the mirroring feature on Macs . Verify that there 's a power outlet or some place to plug in your laptop . Driving a projector eats power , and you do n't want to drain your battery during the presentation Turn off screen savers . at the very least it 's annoying , and sometimes the screen saver does wonky things to the projector display . Turn off your notifications ( mail , facebook , twitter , skype ... ) . It 's amusing for an audience ( but not for you ) if during a job talk they all get to see a subject header of the form " Interview at University X " where X is not where you 're at :) Make sure you have the right display converters . Usually something that converts your laptop to a VGA is standard . Macs are particularly difficult in this regard . Watch out for resolution issues . Most laptops are smart enough to drop resolution to deal with a projector , but sometimes they 're not . Keep a backup copy of the slides in a portable format ( PDF or PPT ) on a usb stick . In the worst-case you can always borrow a laptop ( from the previous speaker even ) and load up the slides . Dropbox/a web page is ok but not great because it requires an internet connection . And above all , as David M. R. says , check the setup beforehand if you can . Even that does n't guarantee a smooth presentation , but it eliminates a lot of the potential problems listed above .
You can do this : " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] anaylsed the works of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] using some_method and found that their_conclusion . However the evidence can also be interpreted to show your_conclusion . or this " ThesesAuthorA [ ref to their work ] states ' direct quote of the thesis ' in their analysis of Bob [ ref ] , Jane [ ref ] , and Alice [ ref ] . " Either way you need to make it obvious that the conclusions are drawn from someone else 's work , and that the references are only those required to support the points and arguments that you are making . As @ff524 said this is your theses for your research project , so you are going to have to find , evaluate , discuss and defend your sources .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
Edited heavily based on further information provided by OP If you are going into industry , or pursuing a Master 's , it may hurt you in the short term A Master 's degree is mostly course work . It 's too short for you to create a body of work that stands on its own . The quality of the courses largely determines , consequently , the quality of the Master 's . Prospective employers may use an institution 's reputation as a heuristic/proxy for the quality teaching . Attending a less prestigious institution will make it more difficult to get interviews . Not being able to attend the bigger names also means you miss out on their alumni networks . Create a compensatory professional network that overcomes these limitations . Most Master 's in CS programs have a semester-long project . Make an impressive project and shop it around . This is a good way to build rapport with potential employers .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
Of course you are not forced , nor obliged , to finish your current project . But it might very well be that , depending on your grant conditions , you will have to pay back the grant money , fully or partially , when you do not finish the project . Furthermore , it might be wise to try to keep being on good terms with your current professor and colleagues . This is most likely achieved by involving them in your decision and motivations ( which you might already be doing , as you write in your question ) .
Applying for multiple programs is common and unlikely to reflect badly upon you . Applications committees for different programs are usually made up of different members and it is highly unlikely that they will even know that you applied to both programs . The only time it might be revealed is when it goes to the administrators who send out the letters , and frankly they could care less . Something to note , which affects both this issue and your overall considerations of a program , is that schools usually look for different things in a PhD program vs. an MA , and that affects how they conduct their admissions . At many school , MAs are not just less-capable versions of PhD students , they are completely different type of student . Terminal MA programs are usually unfunded , and include people who are less likely to conduct independent research . Some MA students will go on to a PhD program , but probably not at the institution where they get the MA . For this reason , MA programs at many schools are called ' cash cows ' and admissions to those programs are less of a priority for the full faculty , with a lot of the sorting done by administration , focused on funding potential , and stricter considerations about things like GREs , etc. . PhD programs are research training to become academics , or at least independent researchers , and most PhDs are fully funded . Since the university is investing in you , and the faculty will be stuck with you in person for 5-10 years , and reputationally forever , the faculty care a great deal about this . Considerations like the ability to pay , and even strict measures of capacity like test scores , take a secondary role to creativity in the field , goodness of fit , and so on . Simply put , in many schools you have to impress two different sets of people to get admitted , with overlapping but different priorities . There are idiosyncratic reasons why you may be admitted to one program and not the other , and sometimes it might even be that you get into a PhD and not an MA . ( On balance , however , admissions to an MA program is more likely than a PhD , simply due to the volume of admissions . )
Yes , it is perfectly appropriate to refer to students in a class you are TAing as " my students . " You are teaching them ; hence , they are your students . It does n't really matter whether or not you are the primary instructor .
I would do everything I can to prevent this going on my transcript . The first thing I would do is write a letter of apology to the cleaning crew for my misbehaviour . Do not approach the cleaners directly , but rather through their boss . Then I would contact the head of the MS program to explain what happened . While waiting for that meeting I would schedule a meeting with an alcohol counsellor so I could demonstrate I do not have a problem drinking . You may also want to enrol in a workplace sensitivity training course . I can not recall seeing an application with anything like this before . I do n't think people would really hold it against you and you could explain it in your cover letter . That said graduate school admission is competitive .
( Assuming USA ) Yes , you can apply if you are graduating in the summer . No , I do not see any reason why you should not do this . You should probably explain your plan and the reasons for it in your application .
I do n't think it should be a problem , provided that you are taking some challenging Math/CS classes among your 4 classes . If it looks like you 're trying to skirt by with the bare minimum difficulty of classes , then taking a couple fewer classes could reinforce that negative narrative . But as long as it looks like you 're taking a challenging course load and doing well , I do n't know that people will even notice the 4 vs. 5 issue ( since there are schools where 4 courses is a normal load ) .
are there good reasons not to choose an area of research in which very few people work worldwide ? There might be . a research clique might be at work : sometimes , often unintentionally , you can observe a bunch of researchers starting to push some topic and ending up absorbed in their own little world proposing extensions of extensions of extensions and not noticing that they became irrelevant . Usually because something is wrong with the problem they work on . But sometimes such a niche might be actually very healthy , except the topic did not caught up more popularity in the relevant mainstream community . something might be wrong with the problem they tackle : sometimes a group of absorbed ( as above ) researchers looses connection with reality and pushes towards solving a problem which does not exist anymore because somebody else solved it just by the way along a route to some other problem and everybody else recognized . something might be wrong with the method the small group applies to the problem they tackle : sometimes the problem is good ( see below ) , but the bunch tries to hopelessly push a method which simply does not yield anything . Often this is accompanied with use of a highly specialized terminology so that it is difficult to see that the method they use and the problem they tackle is in fact very much related to something else what yields more healthy research in the relevant mainstream community . More generally , do n't worry about the size of the field . What matters is whether the problem at the core of the niche is real and sound . Real means that solving it can have an impact on the society at large . You need to believe in your cause . For the sake of this blob , let sound mean that you see a solid way to articulate it and get a grip on it , most preferably including a method to measure progress . If you have the two , you are set even if the community tackling the problem is relatively small . All the rest is up to your capabilities and the difficulty level of the problem . Trust your judgement .
The short answer is that you can indeed put properly cited , sourced , attributed background material in a background section . Because what is the background section for other than for you to present what people have done before you ? You obviously need to include enough of your own work in this document . However if a relevant derivation has been done before you cite it , possibly review it for the ease of the reader or completeness of your own expository structure and get on to the stuff you have done .
There is no requirement to disclose and given the current climate around mental health , I would not suggest disclosing . I would say that you had health problems that resulted in your having to leave your former school , but that these issues are under control and you are confident you will succeed at your new program . I would be sure you tell your letter writers to also use the vague rubric of " health problems " as some may inadvertently disclose without thinking about how you want to be framed .
It will be much easier for you to learn German to conversational level than all of your co-workers learn English . Even if they are some-what able to talk in English , conversational English is actually pretty tough , whilst German is pretty structured and easy once you know the rules ( and the many exceptions ;) ) More importantly , you moved to Germany . Whilst English is expected of all Scientists , there is probably more of an expectation in your lab that you will , eventually , learn German . Personally , I would tell everyone you are going to German classes on Monday mornings , etc , and that should not only fix this issue , but also give you a positive perception among your co-workers as someone who is a fixer . Also , speaking from experience as someone who did n't take their own advice when doing a PhD in Germany - if you dumb-down your English for non-native ears , you very quickly find yourself not being able to speak English with natives . Whenever i go back home my parents think I have some kind of brain damage ...
I would still suggest you contact the admission director ( one more time ) ! He is the one with the " right " and " only " answer you need to follow . All what we can do is share relevant experiences that may or may not be along the lines of your school 's standard/system . Having said that , If I 'm not mistaken , I think you can take the courses in other schools ( as long as they are accredited and/or sister schools + cover a similar syllabus as the one your school has ) . As for a database , try to look through your school 's graduate handbook or admission website .
end question
start question
Should my advisor know if I am auditing unrelated courses ?
In this case , you should let your advisor know , because the time spent in the classroom is time not spent in the lab . Since he 's paying you for your time , if you will be doing daytime activities that will take time away from research he has a right to know about it . On a different note , depending on how auditing works in your university , there may be costs associated with your auditing the course , and he ( or his grant ) would be covering these costs . Generally speaking , the more communication between you and your advisor , the better .
Yes . Talk to your advisor . It is really important you learn to , in a good way , think of yourself . Right now , the undergraduates are happy ( they get help ) but your work is suffering . I can imagine that helping undergraduates is part of your job description , but not to the point you can not work anymore yourself . You need to sit down with your professor and your supervisor and discuss that your undergraduate workload is too much . Best is to have a proposal ready yourself , e.g. that you want to spend a day a week helping undergraduates and that that is the limit . Once you get both your professor and your supervisor to agree , no undergraduate can manipulate you into helping him/her . In addition , everyone is clear on their expectations , this is the professional way of dealing with this in my opinion . If you do not set boundaries , you will be the only one suffering . The professor and supervisor will feel somewhat bad , but the undergraduates will find a new person to stalk , while you are left without a PhD .
There are many possible interpretations of why the students turned away from you . You should not jump to the conclusion that you are bad at teaching . For example , it is possible , judging from the information you gave in the comment , that the students simply did not wish to have a tutor , despite the good intention of the parents who hired you . This is especially common in certain East Asian countries where competition for educational resources are fierce . Moreover , depending on the type of students you tutor , your experience may not speak to your potential as a professor at all . After all , the academic need of a high school student is quite different from that of a college and graduate student . Your teaching style may work well for college students , but not so much for the high school ones . Finally , even if teaching is not your strongest suit , the experience you gain as you finish grad school and post-doc should help you build the necessary skills ( yes , teaching can be an acquired skill , not just an innate charisma ) . So depending on where you are along your education , there may still be time for improvement . Also , depending on the type of university you work in , the relative importance of research and teaching can vary considerably . So even if everything else fails , working in a research-oriented university should help a bit with the problem .
1 ) Find a school you want to apply to . 2 ) Email the graduate admissions contact person in the department . 3 ) In that email , ask politely . 4 ) Say thank you .
As far as I know , there is no official please-do-not-bother-me-ever-again button that removes you from the reviewer list in a journal 's submission system . That being said , I assume just writing the editor a polite email should do the trick . Other than that , you can always continue to refuse reviewer invitations , and I am pretty sure editors will relatively quickly stop sending you invites ( they hate wasting their time , too ) . That being said , I would personally urge you to reconsider your stance on this . Reviews are an important community service that are essential to the functioning of science , and one review every few months really is not an over-the-top amount . For instance , I review at the very least one journal submission every month , plus proceedings papers for conferences and workshops where I am in the Technical Program Committee . That you recently started your PhD studies should actually only be more of a motivation to keep reviewing , as this is actually a pretty good way to stay on top of your field .
I assume this is for a PhD or research-oriented Master 's program . Almost certainly the admissions committee will care about your past research . Here are some possible reasons why they do n't explicitly mention it in their description of the SOP : They do n't assume that you 've already done research . Someone wrote it without much thought or experience . Presumably any past research would play a role in your desire for a further degree , so it is implicitly covered . They were just expecting this information as part of your research statement . Also , regarding your comment " This contradicts to what I know on SOP " : different departments ( and different committee members on the same committee ) look for different things , so this place may not look at community service at all . Answers on this site are not infallible universal laws .
Find out from the university when the degree is conferred . This may be before or after the ceremony ( it could be already conferred ) . ( Also see : <URL> ) If the degree has already been conferred , you can write that you have a masters degree ( the ceremony is irrelevant ) . If it has n't , write that you have completed the degree requirements , and expect the degree to be conferred on X date .
I do n't think it really matters for admissions purposes whether you block your account . If you have anything on your social media accounts that would be unusually damaging in a professional context , then it 's probably a good idea to adjust your privacy settings ( and/or posting habits ) now rather than waiting for it to become a problem in the future , but ordinary Facebook usage is not likely to be an issue . In my admissions committee experience , I 've never heard anyone refer to an applicant 's Facebook profile and I 've never looked at one myself . I 've occasionally searched for information about an applicant online , for example to find a research paper that was n't included in the application or to get more information about an award that was mentioned but not explained . If I run across something else that seems academically substantive ( such as a math blog or mathoverflow account ) I 'll look into it , but I would n't bother to look at Facebook since I do n't expect it would include anything relevant . Can my reluctance to give away some ( personal ) information be perceived negatively ? Under ordinary circumstances , I do n't think anyone cares at all . For all the admissions committee knows , you never post to Facebook , and they would n't be interested in any case . It would come across as suspicious if it looks like you are actively hiding something scandalous ( for example , if there are rumors going around about terribly offensive things you 've said on Twitter , and now your account is private ) , but that 's presumably not the case here .
I suspect the advisor is relative young and probably not fully even aware of the problem . Her perception of events may be completely different . She may feel that she contributed the essential part of the idea to make it valuable . She may not even remember that the idea came from you originally . But that does not mean that she should n't be corrected and give credit to you . This can probably be solved by communicating with her , or by communicating with someone more senior , who could have a talk with her . Are there any annual progress meetings where this could be done ? Not dealing with the problem will only exacerbate it .
I would still suggest you contact the admission director ( one more time ) ! He is the one with the " right " and " only " answer you need to follow . All what we can do is share relevant experiences that may or may not be along the lines of your school 's standard/system . Having said that , If I 'm not mistaken , I think you can take the courses in other schools ( as long as they are accredited and/or sister schools + cover a similar syllabus as the one your school has ) . As for a database , try to look through your school 's graduate handbook or admission website .
It depends how well-known and wide-spread the result is . If by now it is a very well-known result and the publication already happened quite some time ago , it may not be necessary to quote the original paper . In doubt I 'd quote the article and the books , or at least one of the books . A possible formulation could be : The result below is due to Paul [ reference to article ] ; we recall it in the form given in a monograph by Miller [ reference to book ] . I do not think it is necessary to have read the original paper to be entitled to write this . If it is not too much work to track it down , it could still make sense to at least take a peek at the article you quote .
I think there are two aspects to your question : 1 ) Do editors see how many other papers you are currently reviewing ? Yes , in fact this feature is supported by at least some submission systems . I am not sure about Elsevier , but below is a screenshot from <URL> ( also known as ScholarOne ) : <URL> The second and third column list how many open reviews the person has , and when ( s ) he last submitted a review . 2 ) Do editors care ? Are you more likely to get new reviews when you have submitted your current ones ? In general , they will likely not care too much . At least in CS there are myriads of different systems in use , and knowing that a person has currently no open reviews in any given one of them tells me close to nothing about what her or his total review backlog looks like . Further , it is not my place as an editor to decide whether the person can take on another review - I can invite her or him , and they will just decide for themselves . That 's what the Accept / Refuse buttons are for , after all .
Many master 's degrees have other components besides required coursework , e.g. " comprehensive " exams , projects , a thesis . Certainly to get a master 's degree you need to fulfill all the requirements . Someone who is taking master 's level courses piecemeal should check to see whether and in what way they can fulfill these additional requirements . This may depend on the details of the enrollment . However , in most cases that I know about , the department and the faculty wo n't care much about the administrative fine print , so long as the student is doing well in the courses and shows herself capable of doing whatever extra work is required . If you do fulfill all the requirements of a master 's degree , then you get a master 's degree . Whether you were employed by the university at the time has nothing to do with the degree and probably would not show up on the transcript . By the way , in many academic fields most or all graduate students are employed by the university in one manner or another -- e.g. as a PhD student , I taught every other semester , and every semester that I was teaching I received a separate ID card listing me as an officer of the university . I had quite a few of these cards by the time I graduated . Added : In order to get a degree , you need to be enrolled in the program . There is such a thing as a " non-degree student " ; you might want to look that up . What I and Bill Barth are saying is that , in practice , a non-degree student who is doing well in the coursework and shows herself able to complete all the requirements of the degree has a good shot at getting enrolled in the degree program .
Are these works available in any published form or any other permanent online form , such as a technical report ? If so then cite . If not , then there 's nothing to cite . In my opinion , it would look strange to cite a project done in some previous course . What you can do is put an acknowledgment in the back of your thesis/paper to your previous " co-authors " .
Do not send too many emails -- this will undoubtedly annoy a professor who is possibly on vacation somewhere when they return to see 10 + emails from the same undergraduate ( ? ) . As to your second point , that is absolutely a no . Why are you even asking professors with whom you are not close enough that they do not even think that your major is related ? I feel like you may have more major problems , but I would not send more than a couple of emails at this time . If anything , the fall semester will begin soon and you can approach any professors in person to ask for a letter .
Am I allowed to share the final-version PDF file with him/her ( by e-mail ) ? From a ( US ) legal perspective , that depends entirely on the publishing agreement . Some journals do allow this ; if so , it will be stated explicitly in the agreement . For example , the <URL> includes the text The author ( s ) ... shall have the following rights ( the " Author Rights " ) : 3 . The right ... to make copies of all or part of the Article , including the APS-prepared version without revision or modification , for the author ( s ) ' and/or the employer 's use for educational or research purposes . Without something like this in the agreement , whether you 're allowed to share the paper depends on whether it can legally be considered fair use . No copyright agreement can prohibit something which falls under fair use , but on the other hand you do n't really know what falls under fair use until a court tells you . I 'm not sure if there 's any precedent on whether sharing copies of an article for private research use qualifies as fair . I wo n't address this from a moral perspective since you asked whether it 's allowed , but as some of the other answers show , it 's possible to reach a different conclusion that way . I mean , does it make any difference with sharing it publicly ( which I do know I am not allowed to ) ? Well , this also depends on the publishing agreement . By default , if the agreement does n't say anything otherwise , there is no difference between sharing the article publicly and sharing it privately ; both qualify as unauthorized distribution , and both are similarly illegal . But the publishing agreement may allow for some forms of public sharing . Going back to the APS agreement , it includes several clauses allowing various forms of public sharing ( under " Authors ' Rights " ) : 2 . The nonexclusive right , after publication by APS , to give permission to third parties to republish print versions of the Article or a translation thereof , or excerpts therefrom , without obtaining permission from APS , provided the APS-prepared version is not used for this purpose , the Article is not republished in another journal , and the third party does not charge a fee . If the APS version is used , or the third party republishes in a publication or product charging a fee for use , permission from APS must be obtained . 3 . The right to use all or part of the Article , including the APS-prepared version without revision or modification , on the author ( s ) ' web home page or employer 's website and to make copies of all or part of the Article , including the APS-prepared version without revision or modification , for the author ( s ) ' and/or the employer 's use for educational or research purposes . 4 . The right to post and update the Article on free-access e-print servers as long as files prepared and/or formatted by APS or its vendors are not used for that purpose . Any such posting made or updated after acceptance of the Article for publication shall include a link to the online abstract in the APS journal or to the entry page of the journal . If the author wishes the APS-prepared version to be used for an online posting other than on the author ( s ) ' or employer 's website , APS permission is required ; if permission is granted , APS will provide the Article as it was published in the journal , and use will be subject to APS terms and conditions . So under this agreement , you ( the author ) can post the final journal version of the article on your own personal website , and you can post preprints ( i.e. versions you prepared prior to submitting to the journal ) on a site like <URL> or grant permission to third parties to distribute these versions .
As many have pointed out in the comments ( Nate Eldredge , Dan Romik , Per Alexandersson , etc. ) , the point is not to catch you cheating ( as if you were intentionally trying to manipulate your results ) , but rather to verify your process of obtaining such results . We all should be so lucky as to have an adviser take the time out of his/her schedule to verify our processes . I would also like to add that -- and this assumes your thesis could/will lead to an academic publication at a journal or conference -- that your adviser 's reputation is potentially on the line by attaching his/her name to such a document . In other words , by becoming a co-author on your [ future ] publication , your adviser is essentially saying , " Yes , I helped work on this , and I am sure of the methods and the results contained within . " The bottom line ( tl ; dr ) is that you should n't take this as a personal attack . You should be thankful to have someone who can invest the amount of time necessary to ensure the correctness of the work you 've done .
If you do not have publications ( including papers " in press " ) then the publications list can be left empty . If you have papers . You can , however add headings for publications " under review " , if you have any or " manuscripts in preparation " , again , if you have any . You may also have unpublished reports of different types . Such contributions can also be listed under a separate heading . What can be included is difficult to say but in my case , I used to include annual reports I had to write to a super-computer center and a research station , both which were collated with others and printed by the organising body . So any report sitting in a drawer is not valid . Obviously the a " manuscript in preparation " will not be very strong but it will at least indicate that something is ongoing . But , note that a manuscript in preparation should be something worth reading to make it to such a list . In a situation like yours any written material prepared for some official body and with some distribution , can be used to indicate your activities . There is a grey zone which is undefinable ( which is why one generally avoids such listings later in the career ) , so do not put in anything . In short , you need to be able to show these " claims " .
Most established academic journals are indexed in what are logically called " journal indexes " . These indexes commonly record all publication metadata , and usually also include a record of all citations . Such indexes are thus called <URL> . Now , the problem with viXra is inherent to its " alternative " nature : it is most definitely not indexed by conventional players ( Web of Science , CrossRef , PubMed , CAS , etc. ) . You thus have two ways of looking for citations to your paper : <URL> includes content from viXra in its results ( see <URL> 's first hit , for example ) . It probably also records citations of such articles , but the quality of citation matching is limited by Google 's heuristic algorithms . They 're good , but not as good as DOI-based mechanism that commercial databases nowadays employ . A regular web search with you name , or the title of your paper . This is not as automated , but it may give good results as to who is citing your work , especially if this is one of your first papers and you do n't yet have a large web presence . ( Obvious caveat : if your name is John Smith or Li Wang , web search will not help much . )
Should I quote Wikipedia if I ca n't rephrase it ? Yes . If the important thing is the facts ( and not the phrasing ) , then forget what Wikipedia said , read the source cited there , and work from that to find your own wording . But if Wikipedia has a better phrasing than anyone else has , and you want to copy that phrasing , then you need to credit it to Wikipedia . You should n't use this phrasing while trying to disguise the fact that it came from Wikipedia , or try to modify it just enough that nobody can be sure of its origins . You should either credit Wikipedia or rewrite it from scratch . If the quote is genuinely great , then using it makes sense , and nobody will care that it came from Wikipedia . ( It 's reasonable to question Wikipedia as a source for facts , but that 's not a reason to avoid crediting it for good writing . ) However , I 'm not convinced this quote is so obviously wonderful that quoting it would look natural . Would it be that much worse to say something like this ? " Schroedinger 's book was written for a popular audience , but it was nevertheless highly influential among scientists . For example , it inspired Crick to take up the problem of the physical basis of genetics . " ( Note that the Derry reference you mention never says it inspired Watson except via Crick . Wikipedia cites Watson 's book " Avoid Boring People " for its influence on Watson , but I have n't checked what he says there . Derry cites " The Double Helix " , but I have n't checked that either . In any case , you 'd need to check these references , see how to incorporate Watson , and add a suitable citation . ) I 'm not saying this phrasing is ideal , but it could be good enough , and I bet you could come up with various alternatives , depending on exactly what you want to convey . I doubt it 's crucial to your paper that this one sentence convey exactly what Wikipedia said . If it is , then quoting Wikipedia is fine , and if it 's not , then the whole issue is not so important .
end question
start question
How do I find research groups that do work in field X ?
Well , I find <URL> focusing on eyetracking by using Google and search operators . Of course , you should add some redundant similar terms ( eye-movement , baby , ... ) Notice , there are some patterns : american universities nearly always have edu ( actually it 's even a domain ) in their URL , german univ. uni . So using in google filters out a lot . Non-university institutes like german Max-Planck often have URL patterns too . further add to filter out more useless results add to be sure the site/group is still active and the topic on their agenda . add ( latter being german translation , but afaik nowadays most natural sciences groups in Germany have a english ( &amp; german ) page ) Some research branches also have a online directory , there exist also internet directories like dmoz ( not sure if this stuff is up to date , probably some dead links ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> At least I can say that most research groups in Germany will have a english home page and short summary/research topics/open positions on it . So there should be no general problem to find them by some " serious " googling . But do n't use too specific keywords , " eyetracking on infants " , " dualistic view " is too special imho , use keywords being specific rather to the topic than the exact methodology . They are probably mainly interested in how the visual recognition system adapts and learns over time , this is the bigger thematic picture . You attract master and phd students not by naming a special experimental method , so you will not find these type of keywords often on a group page , where they often try to put in a minimum of time .
Do not say : " I did engineering undergraduate because my parents made me . " Why ? Because you are applying for graduate school . The admissions committee wants to see adults . Referring to your parents ( at all ) makes it seem like you are not independent -- that your parents run your life . Whether or not they do , it does not benefit you to give such an impression . You do n't want to put the idea in their heads , whether or not it is true now ( or then ) . I suggest , if your really must mention it at all , something along the lines of : " My time as a Engineering undergraduate has made clear to me my true desires . While engineering is a interesting and worthy subject , my passion is for mathematical side I saw during my studies . "
Unlike employers in industry , I believe that graduate admissions committees do n't care if there are gaps , irrelevant work experience , or changes of direction in your employment . Their sole concern are your credentials and capabilities to do academic work . You should focus all your attention on communicating your skills and capabilities to do Masters-level Computer Science work . This includes your course grades as an undergrad , your GRE scores , your computer experience in industry , your recommendation letters , and your engagement with professional and academic communities . ( Business schools are probably an exception to this . Work history is probably important to getting accepted in an MBA program . )
Especially in chemical engineering , it is definitely possible for people to move back and forth between experimental and computational work , and even to combine the two in a single career ( although this is much more difficult , obviously ) . Both of my graduate co-advisors have made similar transitions during their careers -- from a mainly computational focus to a primarily experimental focus . It is definitely feasible . The main issue that you 'd want to remember at the earlier stage of your career is that the further away you want to leap from your PhD research , the harder it is to find someone willing to sponsor you to do that . For instance , doing an experimental PhD related to the topic of your computational PhD should not be too difficult ; moving from computational combustion to experimental biomedical engineering would be much more challenging .
The " mathematics " tag leads me to think that by " original work " you mean new theorems or at least new proofs of known theorems . It 's entirely possible to publish purely expository papers that do not contain original work in that sense . Of course , such papers still have to make an intellectual contribution that is not already in the literature . That contribution might , for example , be an improved arrangement of the material , highlighting connections that were not evident in earlier work . Or it might be reformulating some known results in a way that facilitated applications .
While I am in a corporate position , our process has some similarity , and I also discuss these issues frequently with colleagues in more traditional academia . What I have observed is that at the level of faculty or other primary investigator hiring , direct comparison of candidates is almost always impossible : it is always apples vs. oranges because every candidate is qualitatively different in what they bring to offer the department . Thus there is no opportunity for a simple positive discrimination like " given two equally qualified candidates , pick the underprivileged one . " Instead , any strong candidate will have an advocating faction whose interests they would support , and opposition from another faction whose interests would be better supported by a different candidate . These pragmatic interests are likely to dominate over diversity considerations in the final decision in many cases . Where diversity considerations are more likely to factor into the process is earlier on , when candidates for interview are being selected . Here , demographic information can be used so that a group can notice , " Hey , we 're only planning to invite white males ... maybe we are being biased in our evaluation and should look deeper into the candidate pool . " It probably still is n't enough to make up for the implicit negatives , however .
It depends how you phrase it . Do not write This will be shown in a subsequent paper . Do write This and this still needs to be done . I think it is very informative to inform the audience of the next steps that need to be taken in this research . For example , shows you are aware of shortcomings of work done so far , and it can be useful to refer to in funding applications . However , there can be many reasons why next steps are not actually carried out . It might be your personal interest , but more often than not , project-specific funding runs out , PhD students or postdocs finish and move to new institutes , etcetera . This is particularly true for PhD theses . The final chapter may be full of future work , which , in many cases , is never carried out .
Now you are a postdoc and not a graduate student anymore . As such , you will have many research ideas , that you will not have the time to implement yourself . So , it is time for you to start delegating this work to " less experienced " workforce than you . That means undergraduate , master or PHD students . So , you should discuss it with your advisor that you have a new idea and that you are planning to propose a new undergraduate or MSc thesis . Perhaps he might even propose , working with a graduate student who is a bit stuck at his current stage of his / her PHD , so working in your new idea might be beneficial to both of you . In any of these cases , co-authorship issues should be discussed early and thorough . For undergraduate , MSc students usually the assumption is that they do most of the work ( it is their thesis after all ) but you write the paper and you get to be first author . For teaming with PHD students , things are a little bit trickier , so these issues should be discussed in detail , BEFORE the cooperation begins . Also , make sure that your PI is OK not to be included in the subsequent publication ( since this is your idea after all ) . Of course , if you want to include your PI in your " additional " publication then by all means , go ahead ( this will also help you bend his objections about the time you will spend on your new project ) . But if you do not , make sure you discuss it before doing it , so you will not get into hot water . In this scheme , not only you can multiply the number of your publications more easily and faster but also you help other people , who might be your future collaborators . So , you really have nothing to lose .
If you believe there are significant problems with an existing manuscript , then you should present these issues to the journal in which the " offending " articles appear . The format this response should take depends upon the nature of the problem . If the issue is in fact " forging experimental results , " then the paper deserves to be retracted . However , this is a difficult allegation to prove , and you would need to have strong justification ( not evidence , per se ) backing up your allegations . However , if the issue is misinterpretations of results or previous literature , this does not quite rise to the level of " academic dishonesty " as forging results . It is not necessarily correct to have the paper retracted . Instead , you should consider writing a " comment " or " letter to the editor " or even a longer paper in response to the problems in the earlier work . Note , however , that if the paper has appeared in a reputable journal , it has gone through some sort of peer review process . As a consequence of this , it will be necessary to present a more " airtight " argument than if the paper merely appears in a repository such as <URL> . In the latter case , however , then there 's probably not much you can do beyond the aforementioned " response article , " as the paper has not been published , and thus retraction depends on the author " self-retracting " the work .
" Tours " are different from " open houses " . On " tours " there is zero chance you 'll meet or hear from any faculty . At an " open house " , there is 50 % chance you 'll hear from one or more faculty , and 25 % you can actually talk to faculty during the reception . It would be very rare ( and delightful ) that a graduate applicant " open house " would have most or all of the faculty . Regarding " open houses " , there are three possible methods to find out about them . First is to look at the Department 's web site , and check under " Events " and/or " News " . ( Sadly ) They might only give 2 weeks notice for " open houses " . Second , the department might have a mailing list where you can add your email address to receive regular ( daily or weekly ) emails on upcoming events . Third , the open house may be not associated with the department but instead it might be hosted by the School , College , or equivalent . You may need to add your name/email to a mailing list for these events . Remember : Departments are notoriously irregular in their " customer service " in this regard . Almost no academic departments have incentives to perform their operational processes effectively .
This is not a standard , but these are some considerations that have helped me : If I give code for students I take special care to be consistent ( I am not always successful ) . Students tend to find inconsistencies and think there must be a reason for that and start looking for reasons where none exist . I also consider the purpose of the snippet : is it an example of best practice or an illustration of how such code works . In the former case I would be less verbose with my comments then in the latter case . Sometimes it helps to have a list of trivial tricks separate from the example code . <URL> is an example I have used . This can be an alternative to commenting tricks in your code that are not central to the point you want to make with that example .
Simply contact artwork 's author ( since the artwork was n't published , the author is copyright holder , otherwise it usually would be the publisher ) , requesting permission to adapt the artwork . I suggest sending the author planned version , so that any potential issues can be assessed and addressed . ( 1 ) I 'd say Yes . The citation is usually located below or above the figure in the following form : ( Adapted from " The DeLone and McLean model of information systems success : A ten-year update . " , by DeLone and McLean , 2003 , Journal of Management Information Systems , 19 ( 4 ) , p. 24 . Copyright 2003 by M.E. Sharpe , Inc. . Adapted with permission . ) . ( 2 ) Since artwork is someone 's intellectual property artifact , protected by copyright , it is usually ( for an exception , see fair use in the next point ) required to cite the artwork ( as any other such artifact ) to properly credit its authors . The format of citation depends on the publication style you 're using ( my example above is based on APA Style ) . ( 3 ) You 're required to get permission , unless you want to risk by using the <URL> legal doctrine . ( 4 ) If the artwork is part of a figure , see example above ; otherwise , other relevant standard citation guidelines for visual elements apply , based on the publication style you use .
I do n't know why you think there are any options other than both . Of course you should n't just say " I 'm having difficulties , full stop " without talking about what you have tried . Of course you should n't just say " this is what I did " without also talking about where you 're stuck . You sound like you 're worried about making the best impression on this professor . The best impression you can make here is showing that you have the maturity to deal with doing research : to work hard on a problem , be aware of both what you 've accomplished and what you have n't , and be able to ask for help where you need it . There are bunch of things that could be happening : You went off in the wrong direction , or missed something , and the professor will be able to help get you back on the right track . The problem is actually harder than the professor thought , and explaining why you 're stuck will make that clear to them . The problem is harder than you thought , and the professor expected you to need some help . In all of those cases , the absolute best thing to do is honestly present the work you 've done . The less you worry about framing things to make you look good , the better you actually end up looking .
If you want to try making a few changes , to see if they have a positive effect , before deciding , here are some ideas : Each semester , take one of the classes you 're interested in . Before reporting the week 's results to your advisor , anticipate what he might prescribe as the next step . Write up your ideas about next steps each week , to show to your advisor for his opinion and/or green light to go ahead as you proposed . Set aside one or two hours every day for literature research ( reading of papers ) . In the beginning it might take you more than a week to get through a paper , but it will get easier with practice . Please note , your distractibility is something you could talk over with a doctor ( general practitioner ) , if this is a significant problem for you . There are a number of things you and your professors can consider trying that might help . If your doctor screens you and finds a noticeable difference between you and the general population in this regard , you can get some assistance with management of the distractibility from your university .
This is an typical situation in application process with no perfect solution available . I is totally ok to apply for several positions at a time . The institutions are also talking to several applicants in parallel . But after signing a contract , it is not a nice gesture to revoke this w/o reason ( even if notice periods would allow this legally ) . The institute has set trust in you and canceled the application of others . How would you feel if , after you have signed at an institute and canceled other applications , they would say : " Oh sorry , we got the confirmation from somebody which is more suitable to our business targets . Thanks for your time and good luck . " Below are some ideas on how to handle the dilemma . It is up to you , which one you want to follow : Accept that in life you have to make decisions at time when you do n't have all pros and cons available . It 's is not like finding a solution to an exam , where the data available clearly defines which answer is correct and which is wrong . Accept that , even if if you would have all offers available at the same time , you can not say which offer is the best . Many unexpected events might happen at one position or the other : Your project might get canceled during your work . Your professor might change department . You might meet your future spouse . If you are really sure which is the best position for you , but the confirmation from this position has still not arrived : Contact this potential employer and explain your situation . You are really interested in this position , but you have also agreements from other institutes so you need to make about the alternatives an decision . Is it possible for your target employer to give you an confirmation earlier ? If the employer is really interested in you , they will try to shorten the decision time . Otherwise there is the risk that they lose you . After signing a contract , withdraw all applications to other institutes . So you save them work . Additionally you avoid you dilemma , when you get an positive reply , but have signed already elsewhere . Attention : Only be sure to have a job after you have signed a contract . Do n't rely on verbal promises only . Things might change easily : The project start might be delayed by 1 year . Or the nephew of the CEO might be interested in the position ... Asking for time ( e.g. 1 weekend ) to think it over an recent contract is ok . But at durations longer than 1 week , the employer might become impatient . A bit more time can be gained , if you ask for some small modifications on an proposed contract . The employer might need some time ( eg . 1 week ) to issue a new contract . Anyhow this point ( and the previous one ) shall not be exploited too much . The employer might get the impression that you are not really interested and hire an other candidate in the meantime . If possible , you can try to reduce the risk a bit , by smart timing of the applications . First send them out to one or two institutions which are not in your main target area . The benefit here , is that you have the opportunity to get some more training in the application process . You become more confident in interview situation . Second try your number 1 choice . You can hope for earlier feedback if there is an opportunity for you . With some delay you could contact departments which are a good fallback solution , althrough not the main target . The idea here is that you are not forced to early to decide to take or leave an offer here . If your number one declines , you might get some positive feedback from these good fallback solutions later . Of course this strategy has to be adapted to time restrictions , and the application deadlines for the adverticed positions . Career is not only defined by your first job . Of course this first job already gives you an direction in industry you will develop . Further corrections here might be energy and time consuming . But the final result , if you become an owner of an multinational enterprise , an university professor , or simply an employe w/o significant career step depends mostly on personality . Potential employers prefer candidates who appear to be authentic . Do n't try to play to much games with them . Trust your gut feeling .
While ignoring might be an option as the impact of this student 's report is not so high , not doing anything will educate students that it is okay to plagiarize or follow incorrect citing procedures . As such , which is also as a <URL> , it is best to contact the author of this report and inform him of the issues . ResearchGate does not have the policy to intervene , but if such situation occurs with actual published articles , one can contact the editor of the journal to file a plagiarism complaint , after which further action by the editors will be undertaken .
Well , I find <URL> focusing on eyetracking by using Google and search operators . Of course , you should add some redundant similar terms ( eye-movement , baby , ... ) Notice , there are some patterns : american universities nearly always have edu ( actually it 's even a domain ) in their URL , german univ. uni . So using in google filters out a lot . Non-university institutes like german Max-Planck often have URL patterns too . further add to filter out more useless results add to be sure the site/group is still active and the topic on their agenda . add ( latter being german translation , but afaik nowadays most natural sciences groups in Germany have a english ( &amp; german ) page ) Some research branches also have a online directory , there exist also internet directories like dmoz ( not sure if this stuff is up to date , probably some dead links ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> At least I can say that most research groups in Germany will have a english home page and short summary/research topics/open positions on it . So there should be no general problem to find them by some " serious " googling . But do n't use too specific keywords , " eyetracking on infants " , " dualistic view " is too special imho , use keywords being specific rather to the topic than the exact methodology . They are probably mainly interested in how the visual recognition system adapts and learns over time , this is the bigger thematic picture . You attract master and phd students not by naming a special experimental method , so you will not find these type of keywords often on a group page , where they often try to put in a minimum of time .
For two years , it was just me and my advisor . We were in the same building , but nobody else did anything like our work in our department . It 's hard . I would suggest looking for ways to branch out -- particularly at your institution . You 'll need committee members . Start looking early . Presumably there are some people in your department ( or another department ? ) who do something tangentially related . Try to get their input at least once per semester so that you keep the lines of communication open . Try to network with others in your subfield . If there really is a dearth of people you can talk to at your institution , you 'll need to look beyond it . Ask your advisor ( s ? ) if they would be willing to introduce you to some individuals . Going to a conference is excellent for this . ( Some believe it 's worth going to at least one or two conferences per year as a grad student even if you are n't presenting , and even if you have to pay for it yourself ! ) Networking beyond your institution has numerous benefits after graduation , as you can imagine . You could also do this by sneakily asking really good questions to a select few people who publish in your field ( most journal articles include contact info ) . The above approaches are aimed at finding people you can talk about your research with . We 're not merely research-bots , however . Loneliness in general is a real problem that hinders a lot of grad students in a lot of ways ( e.g. imposter syndrome , depression , and so much more ) . Grads who are already isolated from others ( grads and/or advisors ) are often more prone to it than others . Research aside , I would make sure that you have friends at your institution that can relate with you . They may be able to give better , institution-specific advice for you as well . I was part of a group of grads from a variety of departments . Their friendship and support was what got me through grad school . Good luck !
Contact the editor you worked with and let them know . They will advise you of your options and hopefully work with you to update the online version and ( if possible ) either delay or fix the print version .
This was addressed on English.SE , <URL> The answers there indicate that major citation styles ( MLA , Harvard ) do not use " et al. " when there are only two authors . APA style <URL> does not use " et al. " for only two authors . I 'm not going to exhaustively check every citation style , but I 'm not personally aware of any where " et al. " is acceptable when citing a publication with only two authors . Also of interest to those who happen to like grammar : the <URL> also points out that using " et al. " for two authors can be considered incorrect , regardless of style considerations ( text in brackets is added by me ) : The Latinate abbreviation " et al. " is short for " et alii , " which means , " and others , " and always refers to people , not objects . So if you had two authors , adding " et al. " would indicate that there were [ plural ] other authors - and since there are no [ t multiple ] other authors in this case , it is incorrect to use it . While " et al. " could also technically stand for the singular " et alia " which would be technically correct , that 's certainly not a conventional abbreviation .
end question
start question
I get admited to a PhD program without a master degree . Does it hurt when I apply for a postdoc ?
In most places I know ( Europe mostly , France and UK in particular ) , a Master 's degree is nothing more than a tiny blip on your CV by the time you have a successful PhD ( diploma , publication , good recommendations , involved in your community , ... ) . Your lack of a Master 's degree will not hurt one bit ( but it probably will come up in an interview , so you want to have something decent or funny to say about it ) . I suspect the same will be true in most places : by the time you are a post-doc , Master 's degree is not a good predictor of your future success . Regarding age , it 's a very good question , and should probably be separate . As a post-doc , it should n't hurt your chances ( I defended my PhD at the same age you are , so I have given it some thought ! ) . For a staff position , things are very different .
When did you graduate ? A new law came into effect in 2010 which requires that all new postdoc hires of individuals who held a PhD for more than 2 years at the start of the contract be only given L permits . ( I only found out after I had a similar discussion with human resources a few weeks ago . ) If you have had your degree for less than 2 years , it is possible your university can sort it out for you . If you have had your degree for more than 2 years , there 's pretty much nothing the universities can do ( aside for lobbying for a change of the law ) . In regards to bank services : for a place to put your money , try <URL> for which you can open an account at most post offices . They care a bit less about the issue with the permits . The main problem with having an L instead of a B permit , with regards to banking in general , is that they may be unwilling to give you a credit card or extend you a loan ; you should n't have problem getting a place to put your money .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
If the research was original and academic , then I would say keep it in there if it 's relevant to the role that you see yourself working in . If it was a team effort , make sure you cite it as such . Since it was n't officially published , I 'd suggest linking to it online ( and hosting it somewhere if it is n't already hosted by your academic institution ) . Of course , I 'm not really authoritative on this type of thing , but if I were evaluating prospective employees , I 'd love to be able to see relevant examples of their work even if they were n't formally published .
It would n't be unethical for your boss to fire you 8 months after you take the job , if he wanted to . Labor is an exchange you and your employer enter into voluntarily . So , you should n't feel bad quitting after 8 months if you want to . It 's not an ethical problem at all . It is more plausible to think there might be a personal problem if this is a small industry that you would plan to re-enter after finishing the degree . Do n't tell your boss up front that you might quit in 8 months , that is n't any of his business . If you do accept an offer to do a phd somewhere , then you should tell him promptly , just as a matter of courtesy . This is to allow the company adequate time to find a replacement .
Virtually everyone gets rejected from at least one of the places they apply to . I have never heard of anyone who got through the process without getting rejected somewhere . I even got rejected from several places that were lower ranked than the ones I did get in to ! So no , one single rejection is not a sign that you are applying to the wrong level of universities . In fact , you should probably expect more rejections . Depending on the subject there can be 5-10 qualified applicants for each spot , so lots of good candidates are rejected every year . If you discussed what universities to apply to with the professors writing your recommendation letters , you are probably applying to universities of the right " level " . The sheer number of applications means that you will get some rejections anyway . With that said : if your are really set on graduate school , it is a good idea to apply to a wide range of schools on different levels .
Here is one more possible reason : the students may be working so much " on the side " that they need more semesters to complete all of the necessary courses . Not at all universities are students supervised thoroughly or progress is checked regularly , so that working part time and studying part time is possible even when not explicitly studying for a part-time degree . It is not difficult to imagine that when working 50 % of your time and studying 50 % of the time , it takes twice as long to complete the course of study . Obviously , it depends on the rules and regulations of the university and/or course of study whether this is a possible explanation . As an example , my undergrad course allowed this , and the average duration of study was 85 % above the normal duration of study , mainly because so many students studied while working . It was a STEM course . I know of on case where the student actually spent 2/3 of the time working and 1/3 of the time studying .
Applying for multiple programs is common and unlikely to reflect badly upon you . Applications committees for different programs are usually made up of different members and it is highly unlikely that they will even know that you applied to both programs . The only time it might be revealed is when it goes to the administrators who send out the letters , and frankly they could care less . Something to note , which affects both this issue and your overall considerations of a program , is that schools usually look for different things in a PhD program vs. an MA , and that affects how they conduct their admissions . At many school , MAs are not just less-capable versions of PhD students , they are completely different type of student . Terminal MA programs are usually unfunded , and include people who are less likely to conduct independent research . Some MA students will go on to a PhD program , but probably not at the institution where they get the MA . For this reason , MA programs at many schools are called ' cash cows ' and admissions to those programs are less of a priority for the full faculty , with a lot of the sorting done by administration , focused on funding potential , and stricter considerations about things like GREs , etc. . PhD programs are research training to become academics , or at least independent researchers , and most PhDs are fully funded . Since the university is investing in you , and the faculty will be stuck with you in person for 5-10 years , and reputationally forever , the faculty care a great deal about this . Considerations like the ability to pay , and even strict measures of capacity like test scores , take a secondary role to creativity in the field , goodness of fit , and so on . Simply put , in many schools you have to impress two different sets of people to get admitted , with overlapping but different priorities . There are idiosyncratic reasons why you may be admitted to one program and not the other , and sometimes it might even be that you get into a PhD and not an MA . ( On balance , however , admissions to an MA program is more likely than a PhD , simply due to the volume of admissions . )
If certain fields of academia do in fact frown upon " popularizing " science , then they are shooting themselves in the foot . One of the most important ways of securing funding in different disciplines is through getting support by the federal governments in which they are working . Convincing politician X that you should fund research on doohickey X and widget Y to solve problem Z rather than funding their new shopping mall or football stadium requires convincing them that your research is important and worthwhile . The key to doing this is having a message to sell -- something that the lobbyists and staff persons working for the government officials can take to them and say " this is what you need to know about why this is important . " An excellent way of doing this is to take part in writing columns , producing features for television , and other " popular " methods of outreach . You 'll have to figure out how to distill your message in a way that 's exciting for the viewer or reader , and that will help no only you but your peers as well .
Generally you can not get two PhDs in the same field . One could get a second PhD in a second field . People who want to do research in multiple fields or in a multidisciplinary topic or wish to change fields may obtain multiple PhDs . Alternatively , as you suggest , people who want to remain students forever do that . The main downside of doing multiple PhDs is that people may not see that you are moving on with your career . There is a career after getting your PhD , and obtaining a PhD is a small step along that career path . Hovering around getting multiple PhDs would be akin to getting multiple bachelor degrees . People may see you as a permanent student , not someone growing into a mature researcher .
While I think the other way around ( transitioning from the humanities to the sciences ) might be harder , if you can demonstrate that you are serious and prepared to undertake graduate training in the humanities , it is definitely doable . In my sociology department ( PhD track , we did n't have a separate MA program and most entered straight after undergraduate school ) , many of my colleagues did not have any sociology training . While most of them came from related fields of economics , political science , and psychology , there were people with math and physics backgrounds and these were sometimes the people who were doing the most innovative and interdisciplinary work . The selection committee was fine with accepting them as long as their proposed research area fit with the department faculty 's research and they showed promise as a sociologist . While a degree in the field is n't necessary , make sure you address how you have been working to fill the gap you have on your CV . A personal statement will be a good place to address this . In addition , you can take additional courses , read as many works in your proposed field , and try to have a well developed study plan to give confidence to the committee that you are as competitive as the other candidates . It might be a good idea to also build contacts with professors in schools that you are applying for and go talk to them to see if they will be interested in working with you . If you plan to specialise in a society other than where you are based in ( especially in case of anthropology ) , make sure you demonstrate regional expertise , language skills , knowledge of the society , or maybe work and/or living experience . Also , since those departments ( in case of a PhD program ) will likely ask for a writing sample , start working on one well in advance so the committee can see that you can indeed to the work in the proposed field .
If you know you 're going to continue on to a PhD , then there is no need to pick up a MSc , unless a specific program you 're interested in requires you to acquire the MSc before continuing on to a PhD . Some people want to have the flexibility that comes with acquiring a MSc , but this is a matter of personal interest , rather than a requirement . The danger is , of course , that if you decide to stop your PhD studies , then you run the risk of having worked for several years without any degree at all .
The first thing you need to ask yourself is : do you really want a PhD ? At its core a PhD is nothing more and nothing less than " vocational education for researchers " . In a PhD program you will learn about and get some experience in doing real research . If you do n't want to become a researcher , then what is the value to you ? There is the status that some feel comes attached with the title , but is that really worth a couple of years of your life ? Assuming you really want to go through with this , then you need to realize that it will take at least 3 years and probably more . That is a long time , so you need to approach that more like a marathon than as a sprint . So do n't go in and start burning the midnight oil , because you will only burn out yourself before you are done with your PhD . This is a very common mistake among PhD students . The only PhD student I know who made it in about 3 years had a completely different approach . She had a plan that was realistic , and she stuck to it . Making a realistic plan for your thesis is very hard . She managged because she already had experience doing research and was already well versed in her topic . She was also extremely disciplined in how she managed her time , and this ment that while at work she worked very hard , but she would not work in the evenings and not work in the weekends . She was able to work that hard and that focussed for 3 years on end because she did not work in the evenings and in the weekends . I am not that person . I whish I was that disciplined , but I am not , and it took me 7 years to finish my PhD ...
First of , you are absolutely asking the right question ( " what can I do to make a good relationship ? " ) . The answer depends a bit on the preferences of your advisor - what works for some may not work for others . Here are a few things you could think about : You say you work from home . This automatically decouples you from the lab and your advisor . Have you thought whether it would be possible to work in the lab ( if they have room for you ) for , for instance , two days a week ? This would also help make sure that you stay on the track your advisor wants your research to go , see also Nicholas ' answer . You say you work mainly with some of his PhD students . Try to bond and network with the PhD students you like , and impress them with your technical aptitude and motivation . Thinking back on my PhD advisor , the only master students he really remembered were the ones that his PhD students were constantly praising in their meetings with him . See if there is a chance to publish something ( with your advisor ) in the context of your master 's thesis . This not only shows motivation , but also has an immediate benefit for your advisor . During paper writing , you will also automatically have a number of meetings with your advisor . If you are interested in doing a PhD , indicate this to your advisor and ask for feedback . I have the impression that many professors take significantly more interest in master students that want to stay on the academic path than in those that are about to leave to industry .
Many schools will require you to take remediation courses if they do not feel you meet the course requirements for the graduate program . They will be fairly upfront about what they think you would need , but it will mean taking more Bachelors level classes at cost before being accepted to the program . In general I would show any additional work you have done to improve your programming skills , including code you have written . A lot of qualified people do not apply to top schools ( I.E. MIT ) because they do not believe they would get in . But I would not recommend focusing on any one school and instead find a few programs you like and apply to all of them . Some schools will allow you to take classes as a non-degree seeking student , which would provide both a way to prove yourself and also gauge the program and its suitability to you . I would check with the program to see how many credits they accept through this method though . As an aside , I am in the same boat . I majored in Mathematics with a minor in Physics but have been working as a programmer for the last three years . I am now looking into online masters programs in Computer Engineering or Computer Science .
I do n't know how mathjob distributes candidates ' applications to schools , but I doubt anyone cares . I put all applications I get for my job postings into a folder in no particular order and never look at the order of application . Someone has to be first . Go ahead ! Apply away !
If you have an otherwise excellent application , then withdrawing from a single course is unlikely to make much of a difference , especially a course in another field . For example , if you get A 's in four graduate math classes and drop a physics class in the same semester , I doubt any math graduate school will care . It could look a little strange if the dropped course were on your proposed specialty ( so people would think you 'd be particularly enthusiastic about it ) , but even that would n't be a disaster . If you are n't taking many courses and are getting worrisome grades in the others , then a W may look like you 're narrowly avoiding an even worse grade , but in that case your application already has problems aside from the W. Overall , the way I 'd look at it is that the W might intensify other weaknesses in your application , but is n't likely to be a big obstacle in isolation .
Perhaps one little " therapy " often relevant is to try to remind yourself that you are the authority in reading papers critically , and the goals are about progress , not evaluation of you by some third party . It is understandable that " school " has left one with an excessively paranoid concern about being attacked , being " checked-on " , being examined , being doubted , and so on . Indeed , " school " often includes exaggerated measures that express very clearly an antagonistic , adversarial attitude of " teachers " toward " students " . Naturally , many negligent students are able to ignore this pressure , while students who were already doing the right thing are the ones who feel that somehow they 're not doing enough . A similar dynamic exists in many human enterprises . So , again , the thing to repeat to yourself over and over is that now you are to function as an authority , you are to assess these papers . The point is not so much any more someone else 's assessment of your " performance " ( often on meaningless , contrived , artificial tasks ) . In particular , the common " teaching-examining " devices of " trick questions " should be forgotten . When encountering a new idea , do n't immediately be worrying how someone could use the idea to trip you up , but , instead , what constructive use you could make of it . In particular , if it does not ( at least for the moment ) seem useful to you , then do n't spend a lot of time on it just for the sake of self-defense against trick questions ! Nevertheless , one should often keep a " pointer " to seemingly useless ideas , because their utility may be discovered only later . But do n't study things whose utility seems null . Move on , just keeping a " bookmark " , so if/when something percolates into your head later , you can go back and look a second time .
Just because it 's not published does n't preclude being able to cite it . You ca n't not cite the thesis if you 're taking information from it ! The degree-granting institution should perpetually retain copies in its library , and most universities these days store PDF copies as well . A copy may be harder to track down , but a determined reader should have no enormous difficulty in getting a copy of the thesis . Example : Smith B. ( 2013 ) , General Relativity , MSc thesis , University of Cambridge , UK .
As other have already said , you should not let your past degrees out of your CV . I am just a bit surprised that they did n't emphasise the fact that it can be actually very beneficial for you . You might not want to give right away your grades on the CV [ 1 ] but I think you should definitely mention them . Doing a PhD takes time , motivation and perseverance but it also means asking yourself a lot of questions : those questions are related to the subject you are researching but also on yourself which can be pretty <URL> . Whatever you can hear , if you have a PhD program with a high rate of dropout or that take a long time to be achieved , it is not good . Showing that you already have faced turning points in your life and managed to go forward ( and have managed better ) can be reassuring for the recruiters that you will do well in the PhD program : That means you probably know yourself better . You are not keeping with a pre-establish path just because it is easy . ( I suppose that you change field after due reflexion ) You change fields : This mean that at some point you have make a decision . Taking decision ( particularly life-changing ones ) is not always easy . Particularly , when this means starting ' again ' . You are motivated : doing a Master is not a piece of cake and you knew it but still you were foolish motivated enough to go through it another time . On a side note , it also proves that you are not taken aback by what you might see as a failure and you actually try again . Even if your grades were n't good in your previous track , they did improve while the later Master . Basically , you showed that you improved and developed through time . Which is a very good point for a PhD . It also means that you were right to change . It also means that you have a broader view . Okay , you might not had good grades in your previous Bachelor and Master , but you do have them i.e. a committee of experts in the field considered that you know enough to have these degrees ! Apart if you are considering a very technical PhD ( and even though ) doing a PhD ( well really any research in general ) is doing something that nobody else has done before . Granted you start from something , but then you are on your own . Believe me , having a broader view can be very helpful on the creative side . And to finish , apart that lying or omitting key information can be seen as a huge breach of trust , I would like to ask : Do you really see yourself rejecting your past ? Do n't you want to do your PhD in a place where you know that you have been accepted as yourself as a whole ? Doing a PhD is not an easy process - not because the applications are though - because it is though . IMO , applications are just the quickest way and the least worse ( and not actually the best ) for recruiters to identify who are the people who would manage to finish it . [ 1 ] Keep this for the interview , if they ask . Disclaimer : I am French who has done a Bachelor and a Master in Organic Chemistry before doing a Master degree in Bioinformatics and actually doing a PhD in Bioinformatics in Cambridge , UK .
end question
start question
Can you do a PhD solely on repeating experiments of others ?
I would say it depends : a ) If in medicine , you are the first one to replicate an effect in an independent study , then you actually did something original , namely confirming the effect b ) If in physics , you refine an experimental design to verify an uncertain outcome , or clean up a measurement to exclude artifacts , and make the effect more clear , it is also something original The rest is in the shades of what passed in the journals as " original " . But I guess as long as the experiment was set up freshly ( i.e. not in the same group ) and had any small improvement/change ( analysis method , amount of data , statistical uncertainty , control experiments ) over the original it would pass in many universities for a PhD ( and I will not give my personal opinion on the level or originality required for a PhD in an average university here ) .
My advisor , at two different points in my academic career , said : " I am your advisor for life . You can always count on me . " " I think it 's time for my old students to start finding new people to comment on their work . " I took away from this that your advisor should always be available at some level , it 's part of the point of taking on students . You are part of their scientific ( or otherwise scholarly ) contribution . At the same time , post-PhD you have to develop your own network of support , which is part of your growth as a scholar . But how do you know when to do this ? I think the best answer is simply to ask your advisor ( see , they 're always there to answer the hard questions ) . Hopefully they 'll give you an honest opinion - either to keep asking them for help or that they think you 're ready to fly on your own . Either , if you do n't feel confident that you have enough peers to count on , it 's probably a sign that you both can still ask your advisor for help and that it 's time to put some more energy into expanding your professional network .
a student asks you why our noses run and our feet smell . My answer would be Sorry , I do n't know the answer to your question . Please ask the experts . This is the professional answer I 'll provide . Professional in the sense that I only say what I know . Be careful if you try to use some sense of humor to answer those questions . You can easily step out of boundry . In particular , the two examples you have may have something to do with health/privacy issues . If the student keeps asking this kind of questions , you 'll know he has other reasons to do so ( such as another student has running nose or came to classroom with bare foot ) . Talk to the student privately or take it to your superiors . Edit I received comments about part of my answer " Please ask the experts " . I 'll explain . I am recommending to pretend the trolling question is a serious one . I can not guess what trolling questions the OP was asked . There are many possibilities . Many trolling questions are of personal type . I give an example here . A young male handsome prof. teaches in a college . He is asked all kinds of questions every new semester . The most frequent one is " Professor , when are you going to get married ? " The prof. always replied " Sorry , I do n't know the answer . You need to ask my fiancee . " In this case , the expert is his fiancee . You can use other serious ways to answer the trolling question . The point is to be serious ( or jokingly serious if you can ) about it so that the troller wo n't be able to continue the trolling . End of edit
You seem ( at least in your question ) to have skipped over a middle option : as a PHD student in computer science at an American university , it is likely that with no additional paperwork you can enroll in graduate courses in the statistics department . ( As with all things academic , it would be good to run this past your supervisor , but as long as you can explain ( i ) why you think it will be useful to you and ( ii ) why it will not significantly impede the progress on whatever else you are supposed to be doing , s/he ought to be supportive of it . If the statistics coursework is directly relevant to your thesis research , s/he ought to be enthusiastic , even . ) You can then take exactly the courses to develop the knowledge and skills you need . I do n't know your situation , but it seems very unlikely that what you want to learn will coincide precisely with the set of requirements for a master 's degree in statistics . And in terms of your credentials : unless you are looking for a post-PhD position specifically in statistics , given that you already have one master 's degree and are going for a PhD , I do n't see a second master 's degree in statistics as having much value to you . ( Even then , unless your career goal is to be some kind of adjunct lecturer in a statistics department , a second master 's degree is not guaranteed to be directly helpful : if you have specific career goals then you should ask around as to what credentials best help you achieve these goals . ) As to the value of the coursework itself versus the time for your CS research : Suresh 's comment is the best answer that I can think of to that . You 're right ; there are pros and cons to be weighed against each other . We ca n't do that for you nearly as well as you can do it for yourself . Your supervisor is the natural person to go to for some additional insight , but in my opinion the final decision is really yours .
Speaking both as a PhD advisor and as someone with a diagnosed and controlled bipolar disorder , I would definitely consider a student with mental health issues . I would , much like awsoci discusses in their response , insist the student not treat the advisory relationship as a therapeutic outlet , and that the student lean on the available resources inside and outside campus . My own PhD advisor ( back in the day ) knew about my issues , and the same holds true for all the PhD students with mental health problems I know right now . All that said , there are risks with disclosing , and definitely with disclosing widely . There is no guarantee that any given PhD advisor would be fine with the situation , and even if there are anti-discrimination clauses available , the relationship might not work out well in the end if it starts out on a shaky basis . To summarize : In principle and in theory , advisors should take on qualified students with disabilities . In practice , your mileage most likely will vary , but I personally would not let the disability be a deciding factor in taking on a student .
Writing as an Administrator : It is appropriate to use the title when you are a graduate , ie , when the degree is conferred either in notice by letter or by ceremony ( which ever comes first ) . Prior to that your status is that of a graduand . If you 've been using the work-title PhD Candidate you might consider changing to PhD Graduand to indicate this status : that you 're awaiting conferral but you 've met the substantive criteria for fulfillment of your degree . Additional source : <URL> . Congratulations by the way !
MIT 's Open Courseware project has a lot of material of this sort . Here is a link to the <URL> , with courses organized by topic . The depth of the offering will vary from course to course . Some have only syllabi , others have complete video lectures , homework assignments , exams , solutions , etc. . The coverage is quite broad and includes courses in all of the specific classes you have listed .
I highly recommend a software to manage this like Endnote , Zotero , or Mendeley . The last two are free if your library is small enough ( depends on the size of the PDFs ) . That will make things much easier by cleaning up the metadata and helping you use search tools to find the right papers . In each of these software , you can also sort the papers around . The key is that within these software , you can put a paper into multiple folders/categories/groups / whatever else they call it . I use this liberally . Note that the software will keep the reference as one reference with multiple links , and so if you do things like annotate or add notes to the file they will be visible at all locations where you can find the paper . Before doing anything make sure the metadata is all correct . You can always last resort with using the search bar if it is . First put each paper into a field . So I would make a folder like breast cancer , and then have a subcategory like metastasis if I have a bunch of papers specifically on that subtopic . Finding odd papers reduces to remembering what subtopic it 's from , and finding that subtopic folder within the right topic . If a paper works in multiple different places , I put it in each place . Then add the papers to project folders . I make a master folder for each project , and subfolders for different parts of the project , put the appropriate references . The software can now automatically generate a file with all of the references for the paper which helps with citing . Using this method , you can always dive down into a folder/subfolder that makes sense , either by project or by field , then sort by title/author/year / etc ( and easily switch between these ) , or use the search in the subfolder , and always quickly find what you need . But ... you will need to take a day or two to set this up . That 's a long and tedious task , but definitely worth it . Then I usually just do a minor fix up for new additions every few months to keep it tidy .
In general , there is no such widespread requirement or expectation anywhere in academia . ( Perhaps a particularly unusual advisor might have such an expectation , but even then , I doubt it . ) If you note the citations of research papers , a decent number of them will cite master 's theses -- some of my papers certainly do ! And if I can submit a paper to a major journal that cites a master 's thesis , why would n't another student 's master 's thesis ?
The way I usually choose journals is by looking at where people I trust/follow publish , and where previous work was published . It is usually not too hard to compare the quality your work to the quality of the work you are citing , and chose a target based on that . Unless your field is highly mutli-disciplinary , you will see the same journals/conferences popping up again and again in your references ; submit to one of those . Before submitting , however , it is always important to look at a few articles from previous issues . This will give you a second gauge of quality for the journal and also let you pick up on any formatting and presentations quirks that might be present in the publication .
Sentence patterns are not intellectual property ; otherwise , every author who wrote " To X or not to X " would be plagiarizing Shakespeare . ( They are " riffing " off of him , but not plagiarizing ! ) The example you are citing is perfectly innocuous , particularly since you are not doing anything more than summarizing the paper contents . The only thing that would make it wrong would be to copy those sentences directly from someone else 's work .
You could mention the people with whom you discussed in the acknowledgements " thanks X and Y for helpful / ... discussions " and cite the conference in the text . To cite it in the correct style , I would recomment that you contact the editorial office and ask . I once asked about the style of referencing a thesis and recieved an answer very fast , so this is the safest way in my opinion .
Getting a PhD almost always requires one to have some original contribution to your field . That result does n't always have to be an earth shattering proof of something completely original . Your work can build upon existing work , or draw connections between a variety of different topics that no one has noticed yet , or even just suggest that there is a problem that nobody has considered yet . The point is that there has to be something unique , and original that counts as your contribution to the body of knowledge . That is n't easy to do certainly , but it is n't impossible for normal people to accomplish through lots of time and hard work either .
Conferences are very important in CS . Journals are also important , but they tend to accept more mature work , and therefore might be especially hard to publish into as a beginning graduate student ( which , in your terms , seems to refer to someone who has n't finished his/her master thesis yet ) . Nothing is impossible , of course , but you have to be careful not to end up with no publications after 4 years , just because you were aiming too high . In addition , some journals are very slow to respond , so you might spend half a year or even more waiting for a decision . In the mean time , you can not send this work anywhere else . You should ask students there how the official policy is , it might just be that they do n't want to fund you a trip to a small workshop in Hawaii , but the question could be different if you were to get a paper at POPL . You should also consider that there are good conferences coming to Asia , and many conferences offer financial support to students ( including reducing the registration fee , sometimes even helping with transport/accommodation ) . Finally , if you 're writing your paper with someone else , such as your advisor , this person might be able to travel to the conference and present the paper ( which would be a shame for you not to attend , but it still counts as a publication in your CV ) . EDIT Some clarification : technically speaking , the only important thing is to produce good research , and to write good paper . What you plan to do after your PhD also matters , but if you 'd like to stay in Academia , you will need at some point to get a job , and you will be judged on your papers ( on other aspects too , but papers are very important ) . Now , to answer your question : yes , you could get a job with only journal publications , as long as they are good . Is that the best strategy ? Probably not . Conferences are very important because they allow you to meet other people , to be exposed to state-of-the-art research , to confront your ideas with the community , to get published within a relatively short time period , to receive more frequent feedback , to construct your research project in a more incremental way ( present your idea at some workshop , work on a good conference paper , present the extended version to a journal ) . If I can give you one example , I 've presented some of my work at a workshop with no proceedings ( so it did n't count as a publication ) , and I met there someone who accepted to be one of my external PhD examiners .
If I understand your question , you 're asking whether statements in an introduction or conclusion which summarise fully-referenced , more detailed statements in the body of your writing should be referenced too . The answer is the same as for anything , regardless of where it 's found in something you write : If a statement is your own conclusion based on information you have drawn from outside sources , then as long as you note what information you got from which sources by referencing correctly within the body of the document where you explain how you came to your conclusion , you do n't need to reference this conclusive or interpretive statement ; it 's the result of your own mental process . On the other hand , if the statement is information from another source , you must reference it . Whether or not it 's heavily summarised or you intend to expand on the statement , with references , later , the simple rule of referencing everything that did not originate with your own work still applies . As a rule , though , I 'd advise you to check with your teacher , tutor , student advisor , TA , lecturer , or whomever else applies . What I explained above is technically the right way to do it , but it would n't surprise me if some institutions at least are n't quite that strict .
Not a particularity helpful answer , but ... No , it does not happen at all institutes , but it does happen at many . In some cases it is official and in other cases it is unofficial . As an applicant you should assume that the entire time you are on campus is part of the interview including any drinks/meals .
This question is too broad , but I have a feeling it 's a commonly asked one , so I 'm going to try to answer it anyways . To address ( what used to be ) your second question first : holding a PhD does not make a job candidate any more desirable for the vast majority of positions . Indeed , it can be a factor against the candidate , as they will be perceived as more expensive . For positions where a less-qualified candidate could also fill the role , being overqualified is rarely a good thing . Jobs that are specifically looking for a PhD will typically state that in the requirements . For example , " Masters required , PhD preferred " is a common one in certain parts of the banking sector . However , for entry-level positions ( data entry , lower-level analyst roles , etc ) , you may be at a disadvantage . Regarding your first question , though , you 're being overly harsh on yourself . The process of earning a PhD is significant work experience ; indeed , that 's your main selling point when looking for your first job . Depending on what you did , you will have some or all of the following experience : Identifying , clearly stating , and figuring out how to address a problem - this alone qualifies you to be a consultant at any large firm ; this is all they do , all the time , for different clients Project management Advanced technical writing - your thesis , academic publications Communication skills - working through the peer-review process Public speaking - presenting at conferences Experimental design - your research project The art of researching - the simple knowledge of how to properly find articles , sources , etc ... Even better , you 've been doing all that for four years . You should be selling every single one of those points as hard as you can when you move to industry . EDIT : The above answer stands for the edited second question as well ; as a graduate student , you will want to learn all of the above if you wish to enter the workforce . More specifically , though , almost industry positions seeking PhD candidates will apply to value the following three above most else : Self-starter - shown in that you got your work done Collaborative - demonstrated through successful collaborations with other researchers ( successful = researched together , published together ) Good communication - demonstrated through publications , public speaking , conference presentations , teaching , etc. . During the PhD , aim to do those things , and during your job search , emphasize all those traits in your resume and during interviews .
I agree with JeffE 's comment -- this is an opportunity to show fantastic improvement , which looks great in a letter . If the improvement really was because of " serendipitous success , " it seems that it would be difficult to sustain , unless it happens that the groundbreaking work was so monumental that it is prize-worthy ( and even then , <URL> ) . If I 'm writing a positive letter ( which is almost always the case -- I 'll try to convince a student that I 'm not the correct person if I feel I wo n't be able to justify a strong letter ) , my goal is to convince the letter-reader that I 'd hire/accept the person now , and why . Something like the following might fit this case : I have been particularly impressed by X 's recent work on her project , Nuclear Powered Time Travel via a Modified Consumer Vehicle . Despite a frustrating set of circumstances that returned limited results in the early stages of the project , her hard work and persistence led to a breakthrough that she is currently preparing for submission to The Twin Paradox Journal , and will undoubtedly lead to further successful results . Specifically , she was finally able to properly shield the flux-capacitor plutonium containment compartment in her design , reducing temporal errors by 99 % and leading to far greater box office returns . If the student 's previous attitude , or struggles do n't put her in a particularly good light , do n't include them explicitly . Again , it goes back to would I hire or accept the student now ? If you believe that by not including the specifics you 're not being honest , then maybe you would n't feel comfortable with such a positive letter anyway .
Learning is a life long activity . Graduating with a PhD is not a license to stop learning , it 's a license to ( eventually ) get paid to do research and learn more :)
Based on the reviews and the willingness of the editor to provide an extension , your paper clearly is worth it for the journal . You should definitely contact the editor , briefly explain the problems ( do n't focus on excuses but on what remains to be done ) you have had to meet the deadline and ask what can be done . It will be advantageous to provide a solid plan for the remaining work so that this is clear from the beginning to the editor . So assess the remaining work , make up a realistic plan for what is required and provide this to the editor . If all this requires the assistance of your advisor then plan it together . In the end , it will be up to the editor to provide an extension and a clear plan is necessary . In my own experience as editor , I much more appreciate realistic plans than optimistic ones that fail . In your case it seems as a case of force majeur and such things happen . I am , however , always suspicious of long excusing accompanying letters since I really do not care about the reasons but need to focus on the timing of revisions for planning issues and the like .
end question
start question
How many grants it is possible to have simultaneously ?
At my institution , most researchers have more than one grant . It is extremely common over a wide range of disciplines , at least in the USA . Often , one is required to include the " level of effort " in each grant proposal ; i.e. , the percentage of one 's time that will be spent on that project . That number is never 100 % ; more often , it may be 10-50 % . In many fields , the " principal investigator " on the grant may do only a small part of the actual research , with the bulk being done by students and post-docs . This part is very field-dependent . In some fields , full professors at top universities are expected to have very many grants simultaneously , or at least some very large grants that involve a lot more than the full time of a single person .
First , to answer your titular question : Is it possible ? Likely yes . Otherwise , all PhD students at this university would fail , would n't they :) ? Let me go over the rest of your question one by one : It seems that most universities in Europe require an outline of the planned dissertation at the application stage . Most seems a bit extreme . I know that this is how it works in some universities , but it certainly did not work like that in all places I worked in . I think even choosing the title of a dissertation needs a lot of dialogue between the student and his supervisor . It also requires a thorough investigation on the state of art in the targeted area . Correct . At my current university , people hand in their proposals during their second year usually . Is such proposal the definite proposal or it may totally be changed after the admission ? It is almost certainly not a very definite plan , but whether it can totally change I am not sure . For instance , I would assume if it changed so much that it started to fall out of the area of expertise of your advisor , I would imagine things would get tricky . Can you provide some tips for writing such proposal draft ? How much time you think I should devote for such plan ( at least ) ? Rsearch the state of the art in the field you are interested in . Take a few days minimum to browse over the keywords of the papers of the top conferences in the field . Find out which professor at your university publishes in these top conferences ( if there is nobody , this university may be a bad match for your field of interest ) , and see what the typical keywords and style of his work are . Think about ~ 3 coarse-grained research questions that you think are not answered yet by existing work . You probably already needed to define a research question for e.g. , your master 's thesis . Make sure that the scope is a bit broader now for a PhD - you do n't want research questions that are basically answerable within one paper in a few months of work ( Bad : " Q1 : is it possible to apply algorithm A to problem B ? " ) . On the other hand , you do not want to be too general either ( Bad : " Q2 : how can security be introduced in service-oriented systems ? " - this one is a real-life example ) .
Definitely talk to your advisor first . While I doubt that continuity of funding will be an issue , there could be other ones : your advisor should be allowed to advise students in BME ( sometimes ' joint appointments do n't by default come with the ability to be the advisor for a student ) . You may need to get a co-advisor in BME ( or not : it depends on the rules ) you may need to formally reapply . There might even be the possibility that you are rejected ( but I 'd be very surprised if that happened ) . It 's usually never the case that you can just switch between departments . This also means that there will be deadlines , paperwork and possibly even some fees . since you 're in the first year in grad school , committee composition is not an issue , but for someone later on in the program that could be a problem as well . Your advisor will/should know the answer to some of these questions and the BME administrative staff ( graduate advisor or equivalent ) will know the rest .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
In my experience with graduate admissions in mathematics departments , all complete applications are looked at by departmental faculty ( and mildly incomplete ones may be looked at as well , albeit more briefly ) . So I think it is likely that your letters will be read . However , you say that your GRE scores are " much below average " . I will assume that your description is somewhat factually based and thus that they are below the 35th percentile . In my department -- about the 50th best -- we would like to see higher scores than that , but we can take chances on some applicants for whom that is the only weak point . Admission to the top 10 math departments in the US is much more competitive than this : they can fill their classes with applicants who are extremely successful according to all the standard metrics . If they deviate from that then they will do so only for someone who is truly exceptional . You say that your " thesis features some new results known to experts but not otherwise " . I do n't mean to be harsh , but this sounds quite equivocal : to a research mathematician " new " implies that it is not known to experts . I suppose you would have mentioned if you had published your results , so I will say that it is often difficult to publish such results in a reputable journal . Anyway " truly exceptional " here means that you have results that were not just unknown to everyone but are actually surprising / exciting to the experts , and that they are eager to build on your work and learn more about your ideas . It sounds like what you 've done is write an ordinarily strong master 's thesis , and in my opinion this is not going to offset your poor GRE scores . My advice is to apply to a lot of departments . Every individual committee gets to decide how much to value GRE scores ; I have certainly met individual faculty members who do not place much stock in them , so while it is unlikely that an entire admissions committee would feel that way , it must happen sometimes . If you do n't get into a good enough department , you should consider deferring for a year , retaking the GRE under better conditions and really nailing it . If you really do feel that you can do much better on it , then waiting one year and then going to a top department is probably a better career move in the long run . However , if you wait a year , take the GRE again and do n't do better , it will be disappointing , so you should make an effort to figure out whether you will really do better , which may involve taking practice tests but also some soul-searching and personal honesty . Good luck . And to everyone else who is reading this : yes , for math PhD students , the GRE is a very serious business . Please take it seriously and plan to do well , rather than trying to figure out how to paint over this weakness in your application .
A few government fellowships come to mind : <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many fellowships from industrial research labs that you could look into , depending on your field ( Intel , IBM Research , Microsoft Research , Facebook , Nvidia , etc. )
Neuroscience is interdisciplinary ! To give you an idea , the neuroscience faculty at my institution ( University of S. FL. , RU/VH university ) generally have Ph.D. in : Pharmacology Molecular Biology Biophysics Biochemistry None of them are an M.D. so you have to ask where would medicine come in useful ? Ph.D. 's do not generally interact with patients , perform medical procedures or do anything an MD is qualified to do ( with respect to humans ) . Being said , you can have a dual MD/PhD where for example your MD is specialized health science and technology , and your PhD is specialized neuroscience . I think that for neuroscience research involving humans such as drug trials , behavioral neuroscience , etc. this is a preferred route . Some neuroscientists are then experts in computational studies as opposed to wet lab , where a data science background is helpful . Some related publications by our faculty : Hevers W , Hadley SH , Lddens H and Amin J. Ketamine but not PCP selectively modulates cerebellar GABAA receptors containing a6 and d subunits J. Neuroscience . 28 ( 20 ) : 5383-5393 , 2008 . Segers LS , Nuding SC , Ott MM , Dean JB , Bolser DC , O'Connor R , Morris KF , Lindsey BG . Peripheral chemoreceptors tune inspiratory drive via tonic expiratory neuron hubs in the medullary ventral respiratory column network . Journal of Neurophysiology . 113 : 352-368 , 2015 . <URL> At least with respect to reference one , the methods state results were obtained from rats/mice , from reference two they collected data from adult cats . You can see that an MD or medical degree is n't necessarily required for a career in neuroscience . Some career postings I can see give preference to those who know some surgical procedures ( not just for humans ) , but at the entry level I 'm seeing 3yrs postdoc experience on top of the related PhD , to which you do n't have to be embroiled in clinical decision-making and large amounts of blood ( maybe on mice , etc. ) , publication record , etc. . For your intended program , you 'll largely want to refer to your university of choice , mind you curriculum and requirements can largely vary by institution !
In <URL> you can find some data for Europe and Asia . In particular , it appears that [ linked document , p. 47 ] : In 2010 an estimated 125,000 doctoral degrees were awarded in the EU alone ( out of a population of 500 million ) , compared to 70,000 in the US ( with a population of 300 million ) and 16,000 in Japan ( with a population of 130 million ) . Probably from the <URL> portal you can find other data for Europe .
Yes , it is theoretically possible that a university accepts a thesis that has been used to acquire another degree ( I even know cases where this happened for two different fields ) . Usually , the only way to find out is to ask the responsible people at your home university and your exchange university . The latter matters because it might cause trouble if they have some regulations about you " reusing " your thesis . I can imagine that some universities have existing regulations for this matter , so you might check them first to avoid annoying people by asking something that you could have looked up easily . If this is not possible , I can think of some factors to consider as to which university 's degree you want to get : One university 's degree might have a generally higher prestige . Relatedly , a foreign degree might not be accepted or be less valued by potential future employers ( be they academic or not ) . This might even hold , if there are international regulations to make degrees comparable ( I know somebody who did a second thesis partly due to this ) . Finishing the degree at a foreign university while not completing the degree you originally set out to achieve might be regarded as unfinished studies by some bureaucrats , which is more likely to be negative than positve . Even worse , this may ring title-mill alerts to some . And yes , this would all be rather silly but unfortunately very real . So , if this is any realistic , make as much decisions about your future as possible and ask potential employers as to whether they have any preference regarding this .
I would start by asking the journal rep how many manuscripts ( MS ) other have agreed to , or what is typical . I would think that is what the journal reps would consider " normal " . You probably have a sense of whether they need you for something very specific , in which case a lower number might be quite acceptable . Once you know what they tyically load on their editors , you should think hard about whether you find the workload acceptable . There is usually no guarantee that the workload is evenly distributed unless all editors are able to handle pretty much all submitted MS. As editor you will likely need to at least browse the MS when you receive it , chase after persons willing to review , read the reviews and the MS carefully to provide feedback to the author , review the authors revisions , poissibly run the MS around again and then make a suggestion or decision on accept/reject . All this is within some time frame and chasing late reviews and authors who do not return revisions will take some time . I can also add that it will be the problematic papers that will take up most of your time , the good ones usually are not difficult to handle . You thus do not know how much time you will spend on any particular MS. A really good one could take half a day in total ; a poor may take at least a day or more . So having slightly scared you with this , I will add that the work also has potentially tremendous rewards ( reading brand new research and getting in contact with new persons ) . So , in short , how many MS per month is really impossible to answer , it will strongly depend on how you feel about the work and how you think you can accommodate the workload in your own time . I will leave you with this slightly unsatisfactory answer , but urge you to try to get a sense of what the journal expects and what they consider normal . You could also ask to how much time they think the workload corresponds .
The kind of math you 'd get exposed to with your proposed BSc would be very much of the applied variety ( calc , differential equations , that sort of thing ) but it 's not going to drive you to any of the backing theory ( abstract algebra , real/complex analysis , topology , etc. ) . It 's unlikely a Master 's in Aerospace Engineering is going to do you any favors in this regard either . Hence , by the time you want to do your PhD in Math , you will be woefully underprepared for it . Hence , if you really want a PhD in Math , it 's a very , very good idea to do a BA/BS in Math , so I would highly , highly recommend that you dual-major . The good news is that there will be some overlap in classes when you do this , so it 's by no means an insurmountable goal . Plus , this will give you a strong sense as to whether to pursue the PhD in Math . Another option is that , if you just do a BSc in Aerospace Engineering , when you go for your Master 's you might consider switching to Math at that time . From a practical standpoint , I 'm not sure a Master 's in Aerospace Engineering would open many more doors than the BSc would , but a Master 's in Math would definitely broaden your knowledge and give you more general appeal . It 's possible to proceed with a PhD from there .
Universities , and departments , often view Masters degree students as something of a cash-cow , so there are far less funding options than are available to PhD students . That being said , there are a number of options you have before turning to family : There may be a limited number of TA/RAships available to Masters students . The benefits will depend on the university , but will likely include a modest salary , and will possibly include benefits like health insurance or tuition remission . You can work your way through it , viewing tuition as just a major life expense . This of course depends on the local job market . You can take on debt . Many people I know took out student loans in order to pay for their Masters . Whether or not this is desirable and economically justified is another question , but it is always an option .
If she has reviewed for these journals , then she has , regardless of who asked her to do it , and she can certainly put it on her CV ( it 's accurate and she can back it up ) . One caveat would be if she wrote the reviews but they were submitted under her boss 's name ( with the journals ' agreement ) - in that case , it would be important for her to make clear that she was doing the reviews in lieu of her boss , and was n't asked to do them in her own right . In other words , she certainly has the reviewing experience , but was asked because of her boss 's expertise in the field and not her own ( even if she may have that expertise as well ) .
I 've met people who were Computer Science PhDs and actually were part of Psychology departments . If you did HCI , I think it gets harder to do Psychology , after all is a whole study area by itself , since yours was more specific . My advice would be to find a laboratory that has both of them , and that way you can get involved in some projects so you can learn other things about psychology I do not presume to know about the filed , but I 'm guessing there are multiple laboratories that might have a psychologist as well as a computer scientists . Essentially , build up your creed as a Psychologist by going somewhere where there is interaction between the two fields .
Professors typically do not supplement their salary with grants with one very large exception . The grant money can allow them to trade some number of required courses for research time . The big exception to this is that the typical appointment for a university professor in the US is for 9 months . If the professor wants to teach some summer courses , they can earn 3 more months of their salary for doing that , or they can get grants to fill in that time . The National Science Foundation limits US researchers who are professors to 2 months of summer time funding , though , so to get 12 full months of compensation , a professor will need income from some other source ( summer teaching , another agency 's grants , industrial grants , consulting , etc ) . So , that being said , typically professors can not increase their salary rate . They can only use it to fill in the months that the university does not usually pay them for . Finally , most universities give the option for their professors to take the 9 months of salary over 12 months of payments , so filling in those 3 months may look like a monthly raise from the perspective of their bank statements .
U.S. Immigration Law : While doing a summer internship would be seen as compatible with still being a full-time student because of the extended American summer , if you did the 6-month internship you may have difficulty arguing that you are still a full-time , enrolled student . You need to ask your university foreign student 's office for advice as to how you can retain your F-1 status .1 French Immigration Law : You need to clarify with the French company that you will have a valid visa status while in the EU . University Policy : As with US immigration law , you need to make sure that your status in the program is not interrupted by the internship . 1 . Note that CPT ( Curricular Practical Training ) does not apply as you are not applying to work within the USA . The main concern is that your absence for 6-months is not seen as a disruption of your studies from the perspective of maintaining your F1 visa . Your international students office should be able to advise how to maintain your student status . The bonus is that you should be able to use your OPT year in its full since you did not take a CPT .
In my experience , most undergraduates , even excellent ones with strong research potential , do not publish . The reason is simple : undergraduates usually have to spend a lot of time on classes and do n't have much time available for research , even if they 're very good at it . The likelihood of both producing a significant publishable result and seeing it in print before applying to grad school is simply not very large . Even if you do get a publication , it 's not obvious whether it 's due to your research talent or due to your supervisor placing you on exactly the right project . That said , getting involved in research as an undergraduate is the best thing that you can do if you have interest in graduate school . Not only will it put you in a position where a professor can give you a good recommendation for your research work , but it will also help you figure out if you actually want to subject yourself to the grueling realities of a Ph.D. program . And who knows , you might even get some publications !
No , this is not possible , at least not with IEEE Xplore . In fact , they explicitly disallow this . See <URL> ( Point 4 of the " Do Not " s for Institutional Subscribers ) . So it is not surprising that there is no technical support for doing that . As an individual former subscriber of " IEEE Security &amp; Privacy " , they may have granted you that right . Interestingly , under the " Do Not " s for IEEE Member access to IEEE Xplore , the point about downloading whole issues is missing . So that may be part of the reason .
Is it possible to publish such algorithms ? It 's not only possible , it 's far more common than the alternative . Most algorithms papers do not have real applications . The vast majority are motivated by applications , but there are usually several layers of abstraction and/or simplification between the problem actually solved and the motivating application . But even this " motivation " is often post-hoc rationalization , added by the authors to help draw the reader into their paper . Most people who study algorithms do it primarily because algorithms are cool , not primarily because they 're useful . Or maybe that 's just me . Does it even make sense to publish it ? In principle , sure ! Of course , to be publishable , your algorithm needs to be both novel and interesting , not just to you , but to the algorithms community as a whole . You need to be sure that your problem has n't been solved before , and in particular that your algorithm was n't already discovered and published by someone else . You also need to sell the problem , the algorithm , or both ; it 's not enough for your algorithm to be " non-trivial " . I strongly recommend running your algorithm past a local algorithms expert , if possible . They may recognize your problem or your technique under a different guise . At a minimum , they should be able to help you start the necessary literature search . Good luck !
According to <URL> , they received 10,952 submissions last year , which works out to an average of almost exactly 30 papers per calendar day . Given that there are <URL> according to their editorial masthead , it would appear that the average editor gets about 8 papers per week , or one or two per day . However , their caseload is probably much bigger , since they also have to deal with all of their other " open " papers as well -- so an editor might have something like 60-100 active papers to deal with at any one time ( ballpark estimate , assuming a two - to three-month life cycle -- although I suspect it 's actually much longer than that if multiple rounds of reviews are required ) .
end question
start question
Should I write my master 's thesis in English , as a non-native speaker ?
The reasons I write all my work in English , regardless of the country in which I work , are threefold : The scientific community works in English English texts are easier to reuse English texts are easier to share and diffuse Reasons 2 and 3 are effectively based on premise number 1 . In terms of the ability to reuse my work , more often than never I might have to give a presentation , a talk or create a poster based on some report/thesis/paper I previously wrote . This scenario is common to both academia and industry . When this happens I can easily extract sentences , keywords and figures from my previous work if all the text contained in them is in English , without the need to translate it . Similarly a document written in English can be given to anyone and they 'll be able to read and understand it without requiring a translation . Therefore if I were you I would write the thesis in English , and present it also in English . I do n't think that your examiners will feel in any way threatened by this . Ever more so if you are a foreign student and Italian is not your native language . You should not be expected or forced to write and/or present in a language you are not that familiar with , if English is an allowed option .
In a CV you try to organize your important personal information in a clear and useful way for others to see and gain a good perspective . In this case you have a thesis . It should clearly be listed so that it is clear it is one of the outcomes of your degree . It is commonplace for people to turn a thesis into papers but that usually involves rewriting the material substantially . Such papers will be listed under headings such as , for example , " Peer-reviewed articles " , " Conference contributions " , " Abstracts " , etc. . In your case you could add your article under a heading such as " Conference contributions " , Non-reviewed articles " or " Other articles " ( the later only makes sense if you have a heading " Peer-reviewed articles " ) and make sure it is clear that the heading also implies the articles are not peer reviewed . If your article and your thesis is , in fact practically the same text with the same title , it would not be advisable to follow the guidelines outlined above . the reason is that it may seem to a reader of the CV as if you are trying to inflate your publication record . In that case you could perhaps make a note in the CV in conjunction with the thesis that it has also been published under the same name or to add it under a different heading but stating that the paper is the same as the thesis , thereby taking the possible edge of the double appearance . In the end it is clearly not a problem to publish thesis material after a degree and still count both the thesis and the resulting article but the basic rule is that a specific text should not be counted twice . It would then essentially count as self-plagiarism . So just act responsibly and be open and honest about issues that can cause confusion or raise eye-brows .
This was addressed on English.SE , <URL> The answers there indicate that major citation styles ( MLA , Harvard ) do not use " et al. " when there are only two authors . APA style <URL> does not use " et al. " for only two authors . I 'm not going to exhaustively check every citation style , but I 'm not personally aware of any where " et al. " is acceptable when citing a publication with only two authors . Also of interest to those who happen to like grammar : the <URL> also points out that using " et al. " for two authors can be considered incorrect , regardless of style considerations ( text in brackets is added by me ) : The Latinate abbreviation " et al. " is short for " et alii , " which means , " and others , " and always refers to people , not objects . So if you had two authors , adding " et al. " would indicate that there were [ plural ] other authors - and since there are no [ t multiple ] other authors in this case , it is incorrect to use it . While " et al. " could also technically stand for the singular " et alia " which would be technically correct , that 's certainly not a conventional abbreviation .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
The fact that work was funded says almost nothing to me as a reviewer of a paper about that work nor about the odds that such a paper is good . I think funded work is more likely to lead to papers , because the researchers have been paid directly to work on it and have better odds of making progress . That being said , funding is not a guarantee of goodness . Your assertion that unfunded work is normally weaker and unreviewed is not well founded . Unfunded work is often preliminary work designed to prove the feasibility of an idea and lead towards some sort of publication ( poster , presentation , or article ) to bolster the case for later funding . This is very important work and is often done by researchers ( establish and new ) who are moving into a new area or working on a new direction or idea . To attribute lack of funding to weakness is fallacious . Also , many , many good ideas go unfunded . The rejection of a grant application is not necessarily a reflection that the idea is bad , wrong , unsound or otherwise unworthy of funding . Sometimes , many times , it represents the fact that grant programs are highly selective and very competitive . Some have a less than ten percent funding rate . This means that many good applications will be turned away . I would suggest that you soften your judgement about projects based on their funding or lack thereof and focus on which you think is a better idea for purely scientific reasons . If you truly get to pick , then I would suggest that you work on the one that 's more interesting to you , will better promote your career , or may lead to the biggest breakthrough .
The reasons I write all my work in English , regardless of the country in which I work , are threefold : The scientific community works in English English texts are easier to reuse English texts are easier to share and diffuse Reasons 2 and 3 are effectively based on premise number 1 . In terms of the ability to reuse my work , more often than never I might have to give a presentation , a talk or create a poster based on some report/thesis/paper I previously wrote . This scenario is common to both academia and industry . When this happens I can easily extract sentences , keywords and figures from my previous work if all the text contained in them is in English , without the need to translate it . Similarly a document written in English can be given to anyone and they 'll be able to read and understand it without requiring a translation . Therefore if I were you I would write the thesis in English , and present it also in English . I do n't think that your examiners will feel in any way threatened by this . Ever more so if you are a foreign student and Italian is not your native language . You should not be expected or forced to write and/or present in a language you are not that familiar with , if English is an allowed option .
I recommend the first person . Like most good linguistic constructions , the reader passes over it without explicitly noticing it , whereas your first construction with " this reviewer " holds up the entire mental process for a split second . The idea of using the third person to " soften " the criticism : well , Paul Garrett knows how much I esteem him , and we usually see eye-to-eye on things . But this time I simply disagree . The reviewer is empowered -- nay , enjoined -- to supply an opinion on the work . If you want to shade your opinion , explain very carefully and explicitly why you are doing that . Switching to the third person should not convey that you are less sure of yourself , and it does not convey that to my ear . [ Imagine my answer began with " This academic " . Would n't that have been more distracting ? ]
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
I 'm not sure that I see an ethical issue here . Ethically , I think you are free to omit your affiliation if you so choose . But I do n't see any benefit to you by doing so . It may be a symbolic jab at your institution for not funding you , but it 's not going to directly hurt them in any way : nobody is going to notice except you and them . On the other hand , it certainly can directly hurt you and your relationship with your institution . As just one example , they might decline to consider that publication as part of your research record when they evaluate you ( e.g. for tenure ) . Or , more seriously , they might decide that if you do n't want to be associated with them , they do n't want to be associated with you ; and therefore stop employing you ( if your contract permits it ) . Clearly you have some issues with your employer , and I hope you are able to improve matters somehow . But what you suggest seems at best ineffective and at worst self-destructive .
Every document is , in the way you define it , immature . With everything you write your writing improves . Your papers will not be better because you have a degree . They will be better , because you learned something ( i.e. made mistakes ) before . However , there might be reasons not to publish your thesis , but it is not so different from normal working papers . Maybe your thesis is just bad , you did not get any meaningful results , you have made significant mistakes , etc. . So if your university allows , publish it online if you want to ( or if you think it may be worth reading / you can not think of a good reason not to ) ; everyone knows , it is only a master 's thesis and will read it in a different way than they would read a published paper ( or not at all ) .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
Yes , I would certainly mention it , especially when applying to schools where undergraduate research is a focus , or those that have a thesis-based masters program . The " teaching statement " does n't have to be limited to classroom teaching ; it is reasonable to mention any activities related to educating students .
Images in a thesis should be of the same quality as images in a peer-reviewed publication . Hand drawn circles and arrows are not formal enough . Circles and arrows drawn with programs like TeX , GIMP , Illustrator , or Powerpoint are formal enough .
Many ( if not most ) academic CVs have a section labeled " Service " that lists committee memberships , reviewing experience , outreach activities , and other university and community service . You could also reasonably include a brief " service statement " , as an addendum to your teaching ( or research ) statement , that explains those service activities ( and future goals ) in more detail . But keep in mind that you 're not describing who you are as a human being , but rather who you are as a potential colleague . The service activities you describe should have direct bearing on your suitability for a teaching job in a university mathematics department . So coaching your daughter 's robotics team could reasonably be included , but coaching her baseball team probably should n't . Also remember that your service activities are almost certainly less important than your record in teaching and research . " Service " should be the last section of your CV , and any service statement should be significantly shorter than your teaching or research statements .
As a general rule , you can not publish anything as original research that has already been published . ( You may be able to reprint it in other venues , but most research journals do not do this . ) Of course , the trick is what counts as " already published " . Nowadays , many publishers ( including all mathematics publishers , for example ) do not count informal distribution on the internet as prior publication . It 's common not to count extended abstracts from conference proceedings , although the journal may require some revisions or extensions . Nobody counts submitting a dissertation as prior publication , even if the university makes it available for download or purchase , and technical reports are generally in the same category . On the other hand , publication as a " real book " definitely counts as prior publication and would rule out journals . Of course , this just brings up the question of what a " real book " is . Basically , if it 's published by a serious academic publisher , with some nontrivial selection and editorial advice , then that counts as publication . On the other hand , if it 's some random publisher printing copies of Ph.D. theses and selling them online , then you could make a strong case that it 's not really published ( and that this is not so different from ordering a dissertation copy ) . However , I think you need to discuss this explicitly when submitting your paper . For example , you could add a sentence to your submission letter along the lines of " This work is based on my thesis from University X , which is available for sale by Y but has not been traditionally published " . It 's much better to deal with this upfront than to have someone later ask " Wait , why is someone selling copies of this work online ? "
It 's definitely a good idea ( in fact anyone in your situation should do so ) , I have seen plenty of people around me in my graduate school who had done so . There even exist professional services specialized for this task ( it 's a pretty big business in some countries ) . Regarding your concern that the jury might think that you have been " cheating " , forget about it : by providing a flawless statement of purpose despite being non-native , you are showing the jury a lot of motivation ; if the statement of purpose was used to assess your true level of English , they would n't ask for TOEFL/IELTS ; when writing research articles later on , you will still often have a native speaker around to answer questions .
Should I include my PhD as " ongoing " in a separate section to the rest of my education ? Or can I just indicate it as part of my education , but with a note like " 2011-present " or something ? The second option . I.e. , just indicate it as part of the education while noting explicitly something like " 2011 - 2016 ( expected ) "
It is not clear how to judge the " size " of a thesis ( page length or word count is probably not very good ) , but one can clearly do too much research for a Masters or Doctorate . That said a factor of two difference is not really that big since there is always going to be a healthy overlap between the " largest " Master thesis and the " smallest " PhD thesis . If your Masters thesis is larger than the average PhD thesis and larger than the vast majority of Masters theses , then it is possibly too large . As a student you need to be asking yourself why you are getting the qualification . Most students put in much more work than that which is required to simply graduate . You should make sure you push your supervisor to help you achieve your goals .
From an academic point of view , no . Work experience is not counted as a substitute for formal study in academia . Academics consider the award of degrees for work experience to be fraudulent . Some employers will accept these degrees for promotion purposes .
Whether an advisor will agree to supervise a master 's thesis outside of their area of expertise depends on the advisor . It may also vary between fields or universities , but I believe the personal variance will be much higher , so the best way to find out is to ask a potential advisor . As for whether it 's a good idea , I see three issues . You will not receive expert advice in your chosen area . Of course , there 's a trade-off here : would you rather study what you love best without expert advice , or get better advising on another topic ? You may receive actively bad advice . To avoid this difficulty , it 's important for you to read extensively and to choose an advisor who is open minded and flexible . Your advisor may not write an enthusiastic letter of recommendation for you . Sometimes an advisor will let a student choose to do whatever they want , but when the advisor recommends the student , it becomes clear that the advisor is uninterested in the student 's work and unimpressed by it . I 've seen this cause trouble for several people , so I strongly recommend trying to find an advisor who is actually enthusiastic about your topic ( even if it 's not what they work on ) . In your specific case , choosing to study second language acquisition in a language nobody on the faculty speaks sounds like only a mild concern ( assuming you speak it fluently or have access to excellent informants ) , since I imagine much of the advising would be about research methodology or language acquisition theories , rather than language-specific issues . However , I do n't know enough about this area to say for sure .
end question
start question
What happens to a research group when a principal investigator ( P.I. ) dies ? Is it common to have existing contingency plans ?
No . The nice thing about most academic departments is that the <URL> is fairly high such that if an individual PI is incapacitated , there is generally enough slack in the system to compensate . Most funding bodies allow for contingencies . They understand that things happen and that the funding often affects people other than the PI . In the case of the death of a PI , the funder would likely allow for a change in PI to take place . If there is not a single PI who has the required administrative and scientific experiences , co-PIs can be appointed ( e.g. , someone who has managed grants before and a post-doc who understands the research ) . Experiments being run by PhD students , post docs , and RAs , would likely continue unchanged . Experiments being run directly by the PI would probably cease immediately unless there were ethical concerns ( think a drug trial ) . In these cases there is probably someone else involved or a contingency plan in place . Supervision of PhD students would likely be covered by someone else on the thesis committee . Teaching and committee responsibilities would simply be reassigned . Immediate teaching duties will often be given to a post doc or graduate student .
I 'll try to give a general answer from a non-CS perspective . tl ; dr : yes , there are errors out there . A lot of errors , clerical and not , even in oft-cited papers and books , from any field . It 's inevitable : though they do their best to avoid errors , authors are human after all , and reviewers are humans too ( I know , you never find a damn robot when you need one ) . Thus , whenever you read a paper , maintain a critical thinking . EXAMPLES I 'll start the too long section with an anecdote . When I was working at my master 's thesis , some twenty years ago , I needed a result published in a much cited paper from a renowned author in the field of electromagnetics . At the time , ( almost ) young and inexperienced , I thought that papers were always absolutely right , especially when written by recognized authorities . To practice the technique of the paper , I decided to rederive the results : after a week spent redoing the calculations over and over again , I could n't find the same final equation . I was able to discover the correct equation - the one I was finding - in a book published later by the same author . Indeed , it was a clerical error that absolutely did n't change anything in the paper , but it was annoying and taught me an important lesson : papers and books contain errors . And , of course , I later published papers with mistakes in equations ( not for revenge ! ) [ * ] . After that first experience , I 've discovered that you can find more fundamental errors , even in well known books and papers . I 'll give you here a few examples , taken from different fields , to underline how broad the phenomenon is ( in bold , the mistaken claim ; within parentheses , the field ) : ( Classical mechanics ) In Newtonian mechanics , the correct equation of motion in case of variable mass is F = dp/dt . This statement can be found in many classical books about newtonian mechanics , but it is plainly wrong , because that equation , when the mass is variable , is not invariant under Galilean transformations as it is expected in Newtonian mechanics ( actually , the concept of variable mass in Newtonian mechanics can be misleading if not properly handled ) . For a deeper discussion see , e.g. , <URL> , <URL> and Spivak 's book Physics for Mathematicians , Mechanics I . As a curiosity , that wrong equation is used by <URL> in <URL> as an example to introduce the memristor . ( Circuit analysis ) Superposition ca n't be applied directly to controlled sources . It was just a few years ago when I came across this statement for the first time , and I was stunned : hey , I 've applied superposition to controlled sources since I was in high school , and I 've always get the right result . How it possibly ca n't be used ? In fact , it can be applied , the important thing is to apply it correctly , but there are really many professors ( I have several examples from Italy and US ) who do n't understand this point and fail to notice that the proofs of several theorems in circuit analysis are actually based on the applicability of superposition to controlled sources . For more on this , see e.g. <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . ( Thermodynamics ) The Seebeck effect is a consequence of the contact potential . This false statement can be frequently read in technical books and application notes about thermocouples . [ * ] Update 31/08/2015 : apropos of my own errors , a couple of weeks after having written this answer I discovered an error in an equation of a published conference paper which I co-authored . A fraction that should have been something like - A/B became B/A . Hey -- I told one of the other authors -- how could we possibly have written this ? And how did it get past the reviewers ? The fact is , that that equation was associated to a simple , well-known , example given in the introduction , an example so simple that probably neither us authors nor the reviewers gave a second look at the equation ( of course , how can anyone write this wrongly ? ) . I feel that many clerical errors like this one happen because of last-minute changes to notation : you have almost finished the paper and you realize that you could have employed a better notation ... so , let 's change it on the fly ! And here is where certain errors sneak-in . Avoid last-minute changes , if you can .
I 've seen a couple of PhD defenses with demos ( in engineering/computer science ) . It 's not common because many PhD theses do n't naturally require a demo due to their subject , or because a demo would be logistically difficult ( e.g. requires special equipment that ca n't be brought to the room where the defense will take place , or takes too long given the time allotted for the defense ) . Also , live demonstrations are somewhat prone to failure , and a PhD defense is not a good time for a failed demo :) But if a major contribution of the thesis happens to be something demonstrable , and it 's not too difficult logistically , then a demo can definitely enhance a defense . ( If logistics are the issue , a short video of the demo can also enhance a defense . )
Log into you arXiv account and change your e-mail address . You do n't need access to your old e-mail to do this , nor will you lose your arXiv account if you do n't have an academic e-mail address . ( Having an academic address is not a requirement for arXiv participation , after all . ) Once you have an account , there is nothing ( short of administrative action ) that would cause you to lose ownership of your papers or your existing endorsements . It should be no different from changing your e-mail in any other account you have online .
Your concern that this is " risky " is somewhat vague , but generally , I 'd say that working on something like this is extremely common . I 've never " cleanly " finished a project , where it is fully wrapped up , with nothing else to do right as my degree was awarded , I moved to a new position , etc. . I 'd say it 's extremely common , and if you think that extra work might result in a publication , fairly valuable . There is the possibility of things being too demanding , but generally people are pretty understanding of other obligations that come up , especially if you let them know in advance .
Some team-related skills : Interviewing . You have to build your own team , and that team has to fit together very well . Given that your research group will likely be small and that your work can be measured in years , a few mistakes here can be very costly to your ability to produce . Be sure you know who you 're bringing in , whether you can work with them , and whether when they can work with the rest of your group . Delegation . There 's an art to knowing what to delegate and what to do yourself . This will vary from researcher to researcher , and from one graduate student/postdoc/lab technician to the next . Make sure you do n't give someone more than they can handle , and make sure that each person has enough to keep them busy .
I would say several points related to the candidates such as How much in average do candidates publish per year ? Where do they publish ? What conferences they presented their papers in ? What are the impact factors for journals they publish in ? What new research questions or directions do they have ? How much citations did they received ? With whom in the group they can collaborate ? What funds do they have or can bring ? What experience in writing proposals do they have ? What are some similar proposals that received funds ? Where their research is going in the next 5-10 years ? What industry or academic experience do they have ? What skills do they have ? Can they enhance research group diversity ? Can they teach , present and discuss well ?
My strong advice is a clear NO ! There are several reasons : The journal might contact other reviewers , not the ones you suggested . Possible conflict of interest , even if you do n't send your paper with the review request The reviewing process is a business between the editor and the reviewer . It is specially designed to enhance the quality of the accepted papers ( Blind , double blind reviews , etc ) . Once you contact the reviewers , any chance of a blind review goes up in smoke . If the potential reviewer that you contact , is not selected by the journal he/she might feel offended . So , in a word : NO
For a conference without integrity , it can of course simply accept whatever washes up on the shore . For a conference with integrity , however , there is generally a good deal of flexibility in the structure of a conference program . Putting together a program is always a delicate balance of talk length vs. number of tracks vs. plenary events like keynotes and panels vs. breaks , lunches , etc. . Thus , if the number of submissions is low , but still enough for a viable meeting , the organizers will simply end up with less papers and a more relaxed meeting pace . You can easily flex the number of talks up or down by 50 % in even a single track conference by playing with the schedule structure . For a multi-track conference , it 's even easier to scale the number of tracks . If the submissions are very low , to the point where it is impossible to fill even a very relaxed schedule with reasonable talks , that 's a different story . It 's unlikely to happen all at once , because it would take a remarkable collapse to be down by 50 % in a single year . In any case , societies like IEEE or ACM provide a conference with financial insurance , so that it will not be a complete disaster on a fiscal level , at least . The next year , however , the society may no longer be willing to sponsor the conference ...
I 'm sure YMMV , but there is usually an Associate Editor ( a member of the Board to whom the paper was assigned ) that will make a recommendation to the Editor based on the reviews . The conversation you refer to usually takes place between the two of them . If an additional review is needed to decide , it can be requested . The rest of the Board is usually not involved ( they have their own assignments to worry about ) . As an author you may or may not know who the Associate Editor assigned to your paper is .
None . One good paper makes its author ( s ) look good , but does not make the university more or less remarkable ( either in term of perception by the research community or rankings ) . It takes a lot of good output ( papers , conferences , etc. ) for people to start saying " hey , that university has great research done in so many research groups , it looks like a great place " , and for whatever rankings to be affected . Unless by " good " you mean " outstanding " , not in the academic sense " quite okay but I 'm writing in hyperbolic style " but in the meaning of " exceptionally good ; clearly noticeable " . One groundbreaking ( Nobel level , if you wish ) discovery made at a single institution will help it .
There is nothing wrong in showing interest in various topics , as long as you obtain deep results in at least some of them . Without having any deep results in some of the fields , it really looks bad , because it looks like that you are unable to advance enough in something to push the topic forward . It more looks like you chicken out of any serious job , because , frankly , in most disciplines the way to obtain deep results is quite painful . But , as long as you obtain reasonably deep results in your topics of interest , you should be fine . Then , it shows that you are willing to learn new things , able to tackle problems that you do n't know for a long time etc. . However , bear in mind that the boundary between the 1st case ( no deep results ) and the 2nd case can be very thin , and different people may consider it differently . For the sake of a Masters or a PhD , I think that each of them should be quite narrowly focused . On the other hand , it does not harm at all if you have a thesis on your primary field that contains good results , and at the same time you publish something in a secondary field . Last , but not least , you have to remember one more thing : Who is funding you ? Does he mind that he spends his project money on you and you work on something else ? Your supervisor should be aware of the fact that you work on something else and should , at least to some extent , approve it .
I think you can do research in your own time , but I think getting your work published is hard where you are not affiliated with a university or research institute . You have the advantage that you will not use precious resources from the institute as you will be doing the research in your own time , but you probably do not have a large amount of priority over the normal PhD 's and postdocs . I think you should write a research plan , i.e. where do you want to go with your research . Writing such a proposal will show a supervisor you are serious and have some research skills ( provided the proposal is any good ) . Once you have a number of publications , molding those into a PhD thesis is quite possible . In the Netherlands for example it is quite normal to bundle your papers , and write an introduction and summary as your PhD thesis . I do think performing research next to a normal job can be challenging , as research tends to take a lot of time . So be prepared to let your PhD take 10 + years ( possibly making it obsolete ) , or sacrifice a lot of spare/family time .
Any matter that one finds novel or improvement over a conventionally used method supported by practical results , simulation , or theoretical construction deserves to be published as a research article ( paper ) . In your cases , the following applies . A 's article could be a research paper provided her/his method is novel or unconventional . B 's article could also be a research paper as such papers are available for life sciences as well as historical biographies . C 's article ca n't be classified as a research paper although it can be recalled as a survey paper . D 's article do not have sufficient qualities for a research or survey paper . It may be published as a news or magazine article .
You should never offer a link shortener as the only option in an academic paper , for two reasons : It 's adding another point of failure : if the shortening service is down , then the link can not be followed . This is a particular worry over time , since the service may go out of business . One of the big reasons why link shorteners are so popular is that they keep track of usage statistics . I 'd be offended if I thought an author was using this to monitor when the link was followed , where the people following it were located , etc. . So if you offer a shortened URL , it should only be in addition to the real URL , not in place of it . However , I 'd tend to avoid even that . It does n't look professional to me , and I do n't think there 's much savings for the reader . ( Online papers should have clickable URLs , or at least ones that can be copied and pasted , so this only arises for someone who has a printed copy but no online copy . That can happen , but it 's hardly a major issue . )
Ask the university . If they know your situation in advance , they will probably be able to accommodate you . Ask if you can either submit the whole application late , or if you should submit the rest of your application on time and send just the GRE score through when it arrives .
As Marc says in his comment , the best thing to do is probably to incorporate the new proof into your revision , after you get reviewer feedback . A small extension not worth its own paper is unlikely to make a difference between reject and revise . If you send it now , it may annoy the editor and reviewers . Also , the reviewers will likely be just fine with more new material you add in revision .
I believe that this sort of disclosure can be ethical , especially to a neutral third party , and when only discussing papers that have already been accepted and/or published elsewhere . ( Papers still in the process somewhere else might be different . ) . Anonymity of referees is n't a deep ethical good in its own right - it has very clear and specific reasons , and this does n't seem like a relevant violation . Consider the reasons why referees are often given anonymity : 1 ) to allow referees to give honest feedback without fear of ( real or imagined ) retaliation , 2 ) to encourage authors to engage with the referee 's arguments , not their personality or status , 3 ) to avoid the appearance/possibility of quid pro quo reviews , and 4 ) to ensure that broader perceptions of the article are not influenced by knowledge of its referees . None of these problems would occur by giving the names of articles to a ( I 'm going to assume ) completely uninterested immigration clerk . If you want to be very conscientious , google your contact to make sure they are n't doing immigration processing to make ends meet while an adjunct professor :)
You could aim at technical universities ( in Germany and Switzerland , they are called " Fachhochschulen " , Universities of Applied Sciences ) . Their focus is more on applied research and teaching . I worked 2 years there as a researcher without a MS in CS .
It is not uncommon for the advisor to ask a student to review a paper . Let 's face it -- reviewing is a chore , takes a huge chunk of your time and most people do it not out of interest for the paper , but rather a necessity ( it factors in promotions within the organization and recognition within the society ) and probably some feigned interest in the " role of an academic " and " giving back to the society " . Usually , the papers that an advisor passes on to their students are tangentially related to their interests only mildly interesting or borderline stuff are not from top-tier journals As a student , you should never pass up on these opportunities . It can be a very rewarding experience to review a paper and discuss with your advisor . Some of the things you 'll learn are : that you did n't catch on to some inconsistency/mistake after a month of review , but your advisor did it in 15 mins of casual reading . to write an effective critique while at the same time not putting the authors down . Contrary to what many may think , a review is not all about " your math sucks ! " . While yes , it should be pointed out if it indeed sucks , there are ways of saying that . If you spend a lot of the review finding faults , then it is also " fair " to throw in a couple of nice things about the paper and balance it . you 'll also learn to not nit pick on minor quibbles and focus on the technical content ( I hate it when a reviewer makes a huge deal of ' data are ' vs ' data is ' ) . You 'll learn to do this while juggling other activities , so it 's also an early lesson in time management . In the end , the quality of the review is partly your advisor 's responsibility and he 's not going to allow it if it is completely shabby . So , take this as an opportunity to learn about how to write a review . Speaking for myself , I reviewed a couple of papers for my advisor in my early years and now , after I have a few publications to my name , I get invited to review papers on my own ( i.e. , not via my advisor ) . Recently , there were a couple of opportunities that my advisor passed on to me , but the difference this time , is that he trusts me to do a decent review and so requested the editor to officially ask me to review , so that I 'll get credit for it .
end question
start question
What is the effect of background music in educational videos on the learning outcome ?
See Moreno , Roxana , and Richard E. Mayer . " A coherence effect in multimedia learning : The case for minimizing irrelevant sounds in the design of multimedia instructional messages . " Journal of Educational psychology 92.1 ( 2000 ) : 117 . <URL> The authors tested the recommendation that adding bells and whistles ( in the form of background music and/or sounds ) would improve the quality of a multimedia instructional message . In 2 studies , students received an animation and concurrent narration intended to explain the formation of lightning ( Experiment 1 ) or the operation of hydraulic braking systems ( Experiment 2 ) . For some students , the authors added background music ( Group NM ) , sounds ( Group NS ) , both ( Group NSM ) , or neither ( Group N ) . On tests of retention and transfer , Group NSM performed worse than Group N ; groups receiving music performed worse than groups not receiving music ; and groups receiving sounds performed worse ( only in Experiment 2 ) than groups not receiving sounds . Results were consistent with the idea that auditory adjuncts can overload the learner 's auditory working memory , as predicted by a cognitive theory of multimedia learning .
Making an OpenCourseWare course is n't as simple as getting a team of kids with videocameras and uploading the course onto YouTube . There is a surprisingly high standard that the Professor and the University attempts to meet when they prepare a course to be deposited onto OpenCourseWare . Stanford had built entire classrooms for the purpose of sharing online classes . Many of them have 3-4 cameras controlled by two operators while another is entirely responsible for the sound . Classes that require a balance between boardwork , slides , and discussion require a very well-trained team of videographers to recognize what they are supposed to be looking at without breaking the rhythm of the course and capturing the intent of the lecturer . Ask any Professor how prepared their lectures are . Despite how absent-minded most professors seem , there is a large amount of practice and slidology behind each lecture . OCW adds a whole other layer to preparation since the course actually has to run on schedule and conclude with the course completed . The materials used require additional thought since OCW is limited to only a single camera . Look at some of Yale 's early OTC courses ; the professor will make references to a figure and the camera will be focused on his gestures rather than the actual information that they are trying to portray . Lastly online courses are extremely expensive and do n't truly make the return on investment as one would imagine . For instance , Utah State was forced to <URL> .
The context for what the CV is going to be used for is key . I have a single CV that includes " everything " since I started grad school and selected things from before then including seemingly unimportant part time jobs . Having a long CV makes it easier for me to create short CVs because it means I need to delete things instead of remember things . For your intended context , I would not include the work experience , but might include the degree in politics . Including that degree will likely lead people looking at your CV to think you are older ( which might be a pro or a con ) . If you are worried about age discrimination , I would drop it completely .
In my opinion , it is not rude to make only a brief visit , especially if you accept with , e.g. " I would love to come , thank you , but I 'm afraid I can only come there for the afternoon - I hope that is okay ? " Certainly I agree that it is as great idea to stay for the whole day if you can . I 've noticed that perception of etiquette seems to differ a lot from person to person . Whether or not it is okay to recommend a taxi from the airport ( as opposed to picking up the visitor yourself ) , whether or not to take visitors out for a late drink ( or karaoke ! ) , whether to put them up in a hotel or your house , how long to encourage them to stay ... these are all aspects where I 've seen things done differently . But a small minimum of communication beforehand and flexibility during the visit seems to suffice to guarantee a good visit . If you 're the one visiting , I would certainly recommend at the very least hanging around the department some and going out to dinner with your hosts ( assuming they invited ) , but it 's more or less up to you .
There is no definite minimum GRE score ( other than the smallest possible score on the test ) for any program , unless that program explicitly has adopted one . If they do n't mention it on their website , you could try calling or emailing their graduate coordinator and asking them . In all , here are the main possibilities , and the reality varies by institution : Case A ) There is no minimum , and they consider all applications . Case B ) There is a minimum , and they will tell you . Case C ) There is a minimum , but it is a secret . Case D ) There is no formal minimum , but there is a de facto minimum in that they almost never ( or never ) actually accept someone below a score of X , even though they technically say there is no minimum . In the end , this is the same as Case C above . In practice , the most selective institutions will occasionally mention " averages " like 80 % percentile or 90 % percentile - but without a standard deviation that 's not really very informative . It is also the case that many people view GRE scores differently depending on your country of origin , so it is not necessarily meaningful or helpful to know anything like averages . In the end , the advice for the GRE is : do as well as you can without harming some other aspects of your application ( do n't let your grades slide just to study for the GRE ) , and as always try to have the best overall application packet to maximize your chances .
Is this document important for judges ? You are really asking the wrong question . Any official document that bears your name eternally is important for you and your future . You are a MSc student with probably small number of publications ( if any ) and a MSc thesis is an important milestone on your transition from a student to a researcher . It is also a quite large document ( much larger than the typical scientific publication ) , so writing an excellent document at this scale is a valuable lesson even if you want to work in industry , where technical reports / documentation and deliverables are quite common . Conclusively , you must always strive for excellence and always do the best you can . You must change your student mindset from " Would doing A would get me a better grade " to the adult mindset " Is this really the best I can do within the time constraints I have or could I do better ? " . So you should focus on producing the best thesis document you can ( within your time constraints ) regardless of how lenient the committee might be on judging it .
The answer depends both on the time period you want to consider and on the fields . Let me try to give a partial answer . Generally speaking , agrgation is indeed a nationwide competitive exam designed to recruit high school and classes prparatoires teachers . For a long time students began preparing for it after 4 years of university study , as it required a matrise . Nowadays , presenting the agrgation requires a master 's degree , but for most students the master would in fact coincide with the competitive exam preparation . The majority of successful candidates will end up being teachers in high school , junior high or ( for a few ) classes prparatoires . In first approximation , the answer to your question is therefore " no " : the agrgation is not primarily designed to select " TA " . However , having the agrgation is not neutral for " TA " positions . Nowadays , for PhD students , it is much easier to obtain a teaching job if you passed the agrgation , as you will be given priority over students who did not . Additionnally , in some fields ( mostly humanities ) it is a requirement to have agrgation before even beginning a PhD ( I am pretty sure there is no official rule to that effect , but an extremely generalized practice ) . So in a way , yes , having the agrgation helps become a TA . Some decades ago ( since your question is about history ) , there was a faculty position called matre assistant , which seems to correspond pretty well to " TA " ( the matre assistant was apparently in charge of making students work in small groups ) and was indeed accessible with agrgation . This position no longer exists : it was merged within the " corps des matres de confrence " , to enter which you need a PhD . Finally , note that in law , political science , economics and management agrgation can play a role very different from what I describe above . As I understand , they are designed to recruit university professors , but I really do not know much about it .
The short answer is yes , of course . The long answer is , it depends . Ultimately , your future career will depend on your publications and other output , their quality and their impact . If you can produce a number of high quality publications from a lower-ranked university , this will be better than producing nothing of interest from a higher-ranked university . However , the chances of " succeeding " are higher at higher-ranked universities , because they have " better " people to help you along the way . They also have higher standards and more pressure . So there will be a bit of a trade-off . That said , the University of Melbourne and ANU are good places .
Many , if not most , journals specify a maximum of three levels . In a book where the chapter is the top level , four may be ok considering each chapter can be as extensive as a paper . The problem of having too many levels is that the headings disrupt the reading . A good sign of this is when you end up having one heading per paragraph . If that is the case , you can probably remove the lowest level of headings and try to make the resulting segments of text flow by inserting bridges that makes paragraphs into a coherent text . In my experience having read numerous student reports , theses and articles , three is a good goal . It is rare that a fourth level adds much in terms of structure apart from perhaps helping the writer . In fact , I often recommend students to keep a more detailed list of headings to enable them to see the structure of what they are writing but under the pretext that only a maximum of three should remain in their final version . I stand by that recommendation .
Some quotes from <URL> : ETH is a federal institute ( i.e. , under direct administration by the Swiss government ) , whereas the University of Zrich is a cantonal institution . [ ... ] In the beginning , both universities were co-located in the buildings of the University of Zrich . [ ... ] Events of the neighboring University of Zrich are well-attended by ETH students and vice versa . [ ... ] The amicable rivalry between ETH and the neighbouring University of Zrich has been cultivated since 1951 [ ... ]
There is no reason of ethics or custom to prevent you from using the names of professors in your personal statement . Remember , however , that the personal statement needs to be about you , not about your professors , and choose accordingly whether to talk about a particular professor . Thus , for example : If you are talking about a research experience that you had as an undergraduate , then the name of the professor that you worked with is quite germane , and likely to be one of your references in any case . If you are talking about a class that inspired you , then the class and the professor are not particularly interesting for the statement : instead what is interesting is what that inspiration has caused you to do .
In <URL> they explain the subject in detail In general regarding honorary academic titles for non-employees it is written : To recognise the association , the College may confer an honorary academic title on a non-employee during the period of their association ... The title to be conferred will depend on the level of distinction and qualification of the candidate . And specifically with regard to " honorary lecturer " : Honorary Lecturer : Must continue in teaching , research or joint industry/academic activity to an appropriately high level
This started its life as a comment , but I think it actually makes a good answer : I think discussions such as " listening to music help me concentrate better " are overanalyzing things here . To seriously justify anything with this effect , you 'd have to dive into the psychology of different styles of music , working times , etc. . Seen more superficially , listening to music and watching movies are activities that are simply not directly a part of your work . The - implicit or explicit - agreement for using the laptop will likely be somewhere between " Use it like you would use your own computer , but eventually return it undamaged . " and " Each and every keypress must be directly a part of your work , or else you must not perform it . " You just have to find out where in this spectrum the agreement for using the laptop lies . Therefore : Look at what other ( more senior ) colleagues do with their work laptops . Ask them directly . Try to find out about intentional or implicit deviations between official rules and actual behaviour ( and possibly decide for yourself then what you can live with ) . Possibly ask the supervisor , if the above points are inconclusive .
Value in an academic environment : zero . Everything you learn at Coursera you 'd simply learn from a textbook in a few days if you needed it for your academic research or teaching . Value to a non-academic employer : marginal , mainly as a signaling device ( this person will sacrifice his spare time over a non-trivial amount of time to improve himself ) , but certainly lower than a certification in a field or skill directly related to your job . Value to a prospective spouse ( as suggested by @earthling ) : depends . I 'd certainly look favorably on someone who took a Coursera course instead of watching TV . Value to yourself : again depends , but could be highest of all . I certainly know that those courses I took were mainly for my own pleasure and benefit .
When it comes to conferences , if there were submitted papers , and they were published as a volume , that volume is called the proceedings . A paper that was published in the proceedings must have been accepted by the conference . Sometimes the proceedings are published as a standalone work , and sometimes they are published as a special issue of a journal . It should be noted that some societies publish a journal that has " Proceedings " in the title , such as the " Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences " or the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " . These should be distinguished as standalone journals and not confused with the proceedings of a conference .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
I have never heard of this journal , but from the website it seems legitimate based on its publication history ( extending back to 1995 ) and its institution of origin . What your nephew should do now is just settle in and wait , and do n't bother emailing the editors . As a commenter said , one month is not nearly enough time for a journal to process and review an article . It 's usually more like 3-4 months and could possibly go longer than that . And the editors of these journals probably get so many emails from authors requesting status updates that usually those emails are simply ignored -- or if you have a nice editor there 'll be an automated reply that says , in so many words , " Please stop emailing me . " The frequent emailing could even backfire . Recently I submitted an article to a journal , with a student co-author , and was told they 'd get back with me in 9-12 weeks . Six months passed and I had heard nothing . I emailed the editor and asked to make sure she had everything she needed ( = polite way of bugging her for an update ) . The editor said she would check with the reviewer . One day later I received the review -- a three-line rejection letter that indicated clearly that the reviewer had not even read the article . To me , there is a strong likelihood that the article was rejected directly because the reviewer was annoyed at being bugged . This is clear malpractice , but what are you going to do about it ? Welcome to our wonderful academic publishing culture . So , tell your nephew to move on to his next project and let this simmer on the back burner until the end of the summer .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
There is n't any wrong way to cover course material , but different approaches may be more or less effective for learning . However , it is difficult for a stranger to give you definitive advice , since what works best for you may not be the same as what has worked in the past for other students . At the same time , certain <URL> or strategies seem to be effective for a large number of students . My advice if you want to start learning on your own in a new subject area is the following , in roughly this order : Read . Take advantage of textbooks , lecture notes &amp; slides , and articles that cover your subject of interest . You should n't expect to understand everything , but you should continue reading and re-reading material as you gain more understanding of the subject . Search for and learn about resources and tools related to your subject of interest . What do other students , teachers , or experts on this subject use or rely on ? This should lead to more reading , which will give you more perspective on the subject . Try to find things that link the new material to thing you know and understand . Look for analogies , similarities , and differences . Keep track of your questions -- questions raised by your reading , questions that arise from new ideas that challenge your perspectives or understanding of basic principles . Try to find answers to your questions ; seek advice from people ( or <URL> attended by knowledgeable people ) to explore solutions to your questions .
Page length is one of the most basic things you can know about a document , and one of the few useful numerical measurements of a piece of writing . I personally find it helpful as an indicator of how " serious " something is . ( This holds for novels as well as papers . ) If I see one set of notes on a topic that are 8 pages long versus another set that are 56 pages , I have a good sense that the latter set is much more detailed than the former . Similarly , a 6-page paper entitled " Bounded gaps between primes " ( a famously hard problem , very unlikely to be solved in so short a work ) gives a very different impression than <URL> . While page length is not equated with how deep or interesting something is ( and of course depends on format ) , it can be at least suggestive . As a corollary , I also take page lengths into account when evaluating job candidates to get a sense of how productive they are . Regarding the definition , I think it 's safe to interpret page length as the number of pdf pages , as this is what most people will immediately see when they open the pdf . That said , if it 's a book , it 's perfectly fine to put something like 286 + xvii pages , but I doubt people will care much either way . Remember , this is just a preprint server .
end question
start question
Travel grants for International students in the US ?
Usually the best place to ask for a travel grant is the conference itself . I see , for example , that the <URL> had a travel grant program ( sure , now it 's too late to be useful ) . Many big conferences have such programs and those that do not may have " fellowships " , which give a reduced registration fee for select students . Otherwise you want to look at framework programs in your field encouraging the mobility of students . It is true that it might have been easier if you were actually located in India , because of binational exchange programs and such , but you also have to realize that the travel costs would then have been greater !
I think this is a historical issue more than anything else . Until quite recently , dissertations were usually sent for microfilming , microfiching , or both , for later reproduction and distribution . As a result of this , they needed to be carefully formatted so that they would reproduce correctly when photographed . Thus the requirements for font size , margins , line thickness in graphics , positioning of page numbers , and so on . In recent years , this has not been so important , but that does n't mean universities have completely relaxed the rules regarding formatting . There is definitely an interest in having a consistent " look and feel " for theses from the same institution .
Yes and no . You can only use your Pell grant money for summer classes if you 've already been enrolled in classes the previous year : To be eligible for using this federal aid for their summer courses , students must have completed 24 credit hours toward their degree programs during the prior fall and spring semesters and have received passing grades , and they must enroll in at least 6 hours of courses during the summer . So if you want to attend summer classes in 2016 , you had to have 24 credit hours of schoolwork done at the same institution during the 2015-2016 academic year . Campus Explorer , <URL> .
One of the most important factors is in which country you plan to work after getting your diploma . E.g. , if you plan to work in France , some French diplomas are just as valuable as " top " US schools .
The existing answers seem to me extreme . I do n't think some sort of draconian blanket " leaving-the-room policy " is needed here . I would suggest the following : For students leaving occasionally : Ignore it . They are adults and sometimes things in their lives may take higher priority than your class ( e.g. going to the bathroom , feeling unwell , family emergencies , etc ) . If it 's distracting to you , well , deal with it . It 's a classroom , not a funeral , and you are a professional . Take a breath and get back to teaching . If you see a particular student leaving often : Have a private word with them to see if things are okay . They may have special circumstances that you do n't know about ( chronic illness is one distinct possibility ) . Once you know their situation , you may be able to offer specific suggestions that will reduce the disruption and/or get them more engaged in the class . If , after talking to them , you are convinced they are just walking out from spite , and they wo n't stop : Follow your institution 's policy on disruptive students . Your department chair should have further guidance . It may ultimately be necessary to drop them from the class . A short break in the middle of a 75-minute class is a reasonable idea , but I would keep it very short : perhaps 1-2 minutes , enough to stand up and stretch , not more . It should not significantly reduce the amount of time students spend on task . ( Otherwise , as mentioned above , you may encounter problems with your institution 's authorities that your class does not provide as much instructional time as promised by its number of credit hours . Moreover , some students will see it as wasted time and resent it . ) Better yet , break up the lecture with some other sort of productive activity ( small group discussions , problem solving , etc ) . I do n't think it 's appropriate to publicly shame students for poor etiquette , or shut them out of class if they leave . You will unfairly punish students who legitimately need to step out for a few minutes , and anyone who is doing it from spite or boredom will just be further alienated .
For US universities applications are almost universally prescreened for completeness and meeting any stated minimum requirements . The prescreen in process is almost always extremely rigid when minimum requirements are set . The wording on website is often confusing since sometimes schools want to be able to make special acceptances to people who do not meet the minimums . This requires someone from the department to beg and plead with the admin team . One place there is generally no flexibility at all is TOEFL requirements . It would be perfectly reasonable to call/email the department and ask , large departments get many such requests every year . Just realize that the answer will likely be the minimum is the minimum .
if you are in Japan , there are many people that go to Guam to take the CPA . Essentially anybody can do it , but if you graduate from an American University , there are some modules that you do not need to take , pretty much like the Japanese CPA .
Professors typically do not supplement their salary with grants with one very large exception . The grant money can allow them to trade some number of required courses for research time . The big exception to this is that the typical appointment for a university professor in the US is for 9 months . If the professor wants to teach some summer courses , they can earn 3 more months of their salary for doing that , or they can get grants to fill in that time . The National Science Foundation limits US researchers who are professors to 2 months of summer time funding , though , so to get 12 full months of compensation , a professor will need income from some other source ( summer teaching , another agency 's grants , industrial grants , consulting , etc ) . So , that being said , typically professors can not increase their salary rate . They can only use it to fill in the months that the university does not usually pay them for . Finally , most universities give the option for their professors to take the 9 months of salary over 12 months of payments , so filling in those 3 months may look like a monthly raise from the perspective of their bank statements .
Abstract Firstly , the answer will tackle the question 's false assumption that the US is the most attractive destination for international students . Secondly , I will cite some of the factors making a country/region 's education system attractive to international students . Finally , to tackle some of the comments , I will present a chart showing number of international students per capita in selected countries . USA is not the most attractive destination for international students According to the <URL> , the number one destination of foreign students among OECD countries is Europe followed by Northern American region : European countries in the OECD were the destination for 38 % of foreign students in 2009 followed by North American countries ( 23 % ) . Despite the strong increase in absolute numbers , these proportions have remained stable during the last decade . To put the numbers above to global perspective , observe also that Foreign students enrolled in G20 countries account for 83 % of total foreign students , and students in the OECD area represent 77 % of the total foreign students enrolled worldwide . Factors driving attractiveness of higher education in OECD countries Again , according to <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Language as well as cultural considerations , quality of programmes , geographic proximity and similarity of education systems are determining factors driving student mobility . The destinations of international students highlight the attractiveness of specific education systems , whether because of their academic reputation or because of subsequent immigration opportunities . Commenters to the question cite the ratio of international students per capita as an indicator of attractiveness of education system for foreign students . While I do not see any direct correlation between attractiveness of an educational system and the ratio of foreign students per capita ( countries can be arbitrarily protective , or non-protective w.r.t. their own citizens ) , I prepared the following chart from the OECD data ( relevant to year 2009 ) : The chart was constructed by merging data from the <URL> with OECD countries population data from <URL> as published in the <URL> . The computation is done on non-citizen students column for the year 2009 , except for United States it is the number of non-resident students ( due to lack of a non-citizen students datapoint ) .
I am not a lawyer and this is not legal/tax advice . I believe you can deduct these as unreimbursed employee expenses . For 2013 , this was Line 21 of Form 1040 Schedule A. Details can be found in <URL> . It lists a number of examples of expenses that would be deductible on this line , including : Research expenses of a college professor Travel related to your work Tools and supplies used in your work Subscriptions to professional journals Dues to professional societies There are a couple of major caveats : Roughly , you can only deduct the amount that exceeds 2 % of your adjusted gross income ( AGI ) . More specifically , you take the amount of your unreimbursed employee expenses , add the rest of your miscellaneous itemized deductions if any ( see Pub . 529 for the list ) , and subtract 2 % of your AGI ; you can deduct the difference . So this may only apply if your research expenses are fairly substantial , or you have other significant miscellaneous itemized deductions . ( Note that miscellaneous itemized deductions do not include the big itemized deductions like charitable donations , state taxes , or mortgage interest . ) You have to itemize deductions to do this . If you do n't have many other itemized deductions , you may be better off just taking the standard deduction . Of course , you can not deduct expenses that were reimbursed . Note that you might also get good answers on <URL> .
The fate of equipment purchased with research funds generally follows one of three trajectories : Small common equipment below a certain threshold of cost is typically categorized as something like " office/lab supplies " and is effectively treated as part of the overhead costs of doing research . Different organizations have different ways of categorizing and budgeting such equipment , but it generally includes things like laptops , pipettes , staplers , etc. . These items will be owned by the research organization , but below some threshold they are ignored and treated as being owned by individual researchers ( they care about your pipette , but nobody 's going to track your pencils ) . Specialized and/or costly equipment typically belongs to the funder of the project , unless specified otherwise as part of the contract . For example , the US government almost always retains ownership of equipment purchased using research contract funds . After a research contract ends , one of two things happens with such equipment : A . The equipment remains in the hands of the organization , either rolled over into use by another contract or simply ignored and abandoned by the funder . In my experience , this is by far the most common outcome with research equipment , since it is generally useless to others and/or difficult to transfer , and the funder is often not interested in holding it in inventory . B . The funder requests that the equipment be shipped back to it . This is most likely to happen when the funder is concerned about alternate uses that the equipment might be put to ( e.g. , supporting an industrial competitor ) or is planning to give it to another organization . One of the common frustrations is that it 's often difficult to tell whether you 're dealing with 2A or 2B , especially when dealing with the government , which may take years to get around to requesting something back . In the meantime , the organization still needs to track and maintain custody as though expecting the funder to want the equipment back . Now , in all cases , the PI does not own the equipment , but if it is worthwhile to transfer a piece of funder-owned equipment to a new organization , the funder may be quite willing to do so , just as they may be willing to transfer funds to follow the PI .
Giving a poster talk at a major conference is certainly important in your CV . If the travel grant to go to the conference was based on academic excellence , then it should also be included in the CV . If it was a lottery , or based on non-academic merits it might be irrelevant . Nevertheless , even in the latter case , it does n't harm to put it on your CV as it shows some initiative and dedication .
Best option is to respond very briefly . This is basic courtesy , to let them know you received the notification and will accept the travel grant . Of course , it is also wise to remember to submit the receipts as requested ! The first is courtesy , the second business .
I looked at your other questions , which were quite enlightening . Given that you had already publicly revealed other relevant facts about yourself , e.g. <URL> , I do n't know why you did n't include them in your question . Any such details are highly pertinent , and would help people give better and more " customized " answers . To summarize from your previous question , you are 32 , live in Bangladesh , have an IT background , work in a bank , and are afraid your job is taking you nowhere . I 'm Indian , and left India to study in both the UK and the US , at different times . So my background is not so dissimilar , and I can relate to some extent . However , the fact remains that your question is so broad that it is difficult to give useful information without knowing you . Given that you are from Bangladesh , I 'm guessing that part of your interest in further studies abroad is to get away from Bangladesh . Also , there are presumably not that many routes out of Bangladesh besides being a student . If so , I sympathize . However , from your previous question it sounds like you were planning to get a degree locally before going abroad . If so , it sounds like your question might be premature . If you are n't currently associated with a university or already have a relevant higher degree , then going abroad as a student would be very difficult . Are you still planning to enroll in a local Master 's program ? Or have you decided to go for a Master 's degree abroad ? The answer by shane , I think , covers some of the issues you will probably run into as an Asian student in the West . How good or bad a situation you find it depends on a complex set of factors including : Your area of study Your university and location The local community from your area/country . ( Assuming you get on well with people from your background ) How successful you are at your subject What kind of advisor you end up with How much you dislike your native country . If you really dislike it , you may have an easier time adjusting to a foreign culture . If you happen to be from a very " sheltered " background , which is not uncommon in traditional Asian cultures , then living away from your family and culture could be good for you . In many ways the West ( which it seems you are contemplating ) is much more open culturally then a place like Bangladesh . However , how you respond will be up to you . You may find it frightening rather than empowering . In my case , I was from a sheltered background , and had a difficult time . Grad education is a rough business , and study abroad is not for the faint-hearted . However , I can say that I do not regret it at all . It was ( I think ) very good for me . I learned to be much more confident and independent . I am now quite a different person than the person I would have been if I never left India . Having said that , as shane says , grad school is n't the ideal way to go about self-improvement , if you have a choice . Of course , as I have observed above , you may not have a choice .
I think you are the person who would be invited out to lunch , dinner etc. as you are the guest ! However , there is nothing wrong with inviting your opposite number to talk in an informal setting . The only consideration is that you know the lay of the land ! Depending on how many days you would be spending at the US university , you might want to make a strategy on conversations and prospective collaborations . I am assuming you would have results to show and tell and with a punchline at that . That generally helps .
Being open and clear about your grading policy is a large part of what makes the grades you assign meaningful . In that respect , it is generally helpful to share the rubric with your students if you work from one . At minimum , a good <URL> system should meet three criteria : it should accurately reflect differences in student performance it should be clear to students so they can chart their own progress it should be fair Sharing your rubric directly enhances the second criterion , and presents a context for evaluating the other two . You might also consider using some of your lecture time to go over examples of what an excellent lab report should look like and then discuss the rubric with your students . This would give you an opportunity to point out that lab reports should cover key points , but good lab reports do n't necessarily follow a rigid cookie-cutter format . Since you asked about sources on sharing rubrics with students : The authors of <URL> , mention discussing the grading rubric with students and even include a chapter on constructing/tailoring rubrics directly with student feedback . [ Stevens , et al. ] " ... because we discuss the rubric and thereby the grading criteria in class , the student has a much better idea of what these details mean ... " However , you may be interested in <URL> which examines the learning outcomes for different peer groups when they 're given details about assessment criteria . Evidence for their conclusions is based on a very limited number of samples , so the usual cautions apply , but they found that simply sharing explicit grading criteria was not sufficient to positively influence learning , while making time for the students to work more intensively with the rubric did yield benefits . [ Rust , et al. ] " ... it is being engaged with the process of marking as well as seeing examples of other work that significantly contributes to the students ' subsequent improvement in performance . "
There are usually 4 ways to pay for a PhD in my experience in the US : Out of pocket with your own money or with loans Get a fellowship or scholarship Be a Teaching Assistant Be a Graduate Research Assistant None of these are necessarily mutually exclusive . TA and GRAships usually come with a whole or partial tuition waiver or payment of tuition . Fellowships and scholarships may come from the university , another government entity ( e.g. the US National Science Foundation or Department of Energy ) , or a private source . In my estimation , a GRA or fully-funded private fellowship is the best way to pay for graduate school for those whose focus is research because there are no teaching or grading responsibilities to take time away from working on your research . If you intend to go on to a professorship , starting with a TA for the first few semesters or years may help you learn something about teaching , but I would n't have wanted the TA responsibilities during the time I was writing up my dissertation . Myself , I had a GRA with my full tuition paid plus a small privately endowed fellowship administered by my university which supplemented my income . Also , at the time , having a GRA position gave me health insurance . TA and GRA jobs are usually limited to 20 hours a week during the long semesters in the US since you are likely to be in classes at the same time . My advisor frequently upped me to 40 hours per week during the summer and winter breaks to supplement my income further . Paying your own way , whether with fellowships , loans , or your own personal savings means that you are n't being paid by the advisor . A GRA position may be required to focus on a particular research project that funds the existence of the position . If the money comes from their start-up package or a private source , then you may be given much more freedom in your choice of research work , but either way , the GRA position is a job that allows the advisor to direct your work much more than if you fund yourself .
I 'm at a University at the moment where this sort of thing is quite common - and indeed , my previous institution had another department where a relationship like this one actually led to a major company that hires a large number of graduates . It is n't inherently unethical , but you need to make sure that business interests and academic ones are kept separate . It might , for example , be wise to have an uninvolved faculty member serving as co-supervisor . My institution 's stance : Protecting the Interests of Students and Trainees : The impact of a perceived or actual conflict of interest or commitment of faculty members on their students ( including post-doctoral fellows and other trainees ) is of special concern to the university . In particular , the university is committed to maintaining the content and quality of the educational experience for students whose research is sponsored by a for-profit business and whose faculty advisors have a financial interest or a management role in that business . The concern is even greater if the dissertation work could potentially affect the value of a company in which the faculty member has an ownership or managerial interest . For example , a faculty member who pressures a student to complete work related to the faculty member 's company could easily affect the student 's completion of graduate studies in a timely and appropriate way , thereby putting the faculty member 's interest in obtaining proprietary results ahead of the student 's academic or scholarly research activities . The concern is similar for the involvement of students in faculty consulting or other external activities . The risks and benefits of such involvement must be carefully weighed by departmental administrators responsible for evaluating the disclosure and approving the request , particularly where the involvement may be longer term and/or more time consuming . University policy recognizes that the involvement of students in faculty-owned or managed businesses or consulting may yield substantial benefit to the student , provided that certain conditions are met . Faculty members must disclose the proposed involvement of students in their external activities or in company-sponsored research . Faculty members who intend to serve as PI or co-PI on sponsored projects and have graduate students or trainees conduct a portion of the research under their supervision must develop a conflict of interest management plan to address protections for these early career scholars . See Example 2 under Managing Conflicts of Interest for appropriate strategies . Students and postdoctoral trainees have the right to be fully informed about the source of their funding , the nature of the faculty member 's personal interest or involvement , and , if relevant , any agreements concerning data collection , copyright , or patent protection arising from the research . Departmental and college-level administrators review the risks and protections with the student using the Research Agreement for Students and Postdoctoral Associates .
I have n't seen any statistics on how many tenure professors have been fired , but most articles on the topic treat tenure as though it 's a lifetime position ( e.g. , <URL> ) . Anecdotally , you will likely never meet someone who knows someone else who was fired from a tenure position ; it simply does n't happen . Note , however , that the number of tenure track positions made available over the past decade been trending downward fairly significantly ( see the same article , and simply do a <URL> to see more ) .
Although ( see my comments ) , I can not recommend this sort of career path , here are two ways for an outsider to determine which positions will be less competitive : Teaching load and pay . If the pay is poor , and the teaching load is high ( say , 4/4 or higher ) , then the position will be less competitive . Look up the average SAT scores ( <URL> ) of American schools to which you are applying . This is a reasonable ( although not perfect ) guide for the quality of the undergraduates that these schools enroll . Schools with lower averages will have less competition for faculty positions . That said , all faculty jobs are highly competitive .
end question
start question
If I publish under a pseudonym , can I still take credit for my work ?
Taking it that your asking about a nom de plume ( aka " pen name " ) for reasons of conspicuousness , rather than for reasons of anonymity : Yes , it is possible to publish under something other than your legal name . A nom de plume is n't that unusual in academia , particular for folk with common names who would otherwise be unfindable in literature databases . You need to make sure that your legal identity is sufficiently tied to your nom de plume , so that there 's not going to be any arguing about it . Some people adopt double-barrelled surnames for their noms de plume : others add a distinctive first or second initial . As long as its sufficiently close to your real name , that should be sufficient . Note that this will entail your nom de plume effectively becoming your name for academic purposes : it 's what will be on your email correspondence , your web page , your conference name-badges , and so on . You 'll just have to do a bit of tweaking with university administration so that payroll , legal , and travel arrangements are all in your real name , not your pen name .
No , there is no need to . Uploading to Arxiv is more than enough . Your Google scholar profile finds all arxiv papers and will notify those who follow your work about your new paper . You can also add a link to the arxiv PDF in your university and personal page . That way , you will only have to update the arxiv version of your paper , without having to ever update again your personal and university webpage . For academia.edu and researchgate I would never bother to upload PDFs . If someone is interested in your work and can not google your name to find the arxiv uploaded version , then I doubt you will get anything meaningful or useful ( e.g. , citation , collaboration ) from such a person , no matter where you upload your papers .
I would suggest that you investigate those interesting properties further and then have a paper along the lines of " this structure has this useful property , more-so ( or less-so ) than these other structures . " That is justify why someone would actually use this structure . Think about it from the editors ' point of view . Why should this paper be published ? If you ca n't provide an answer with a straight face then maybe you should wait until there is a purpose for it .
Short answer : no ( do n't bother ) . More nuanced answer : it depends . Is your paper of earth-shaking significance in some way ? Is it going to appear in some renowned journal ( Nature , PNAS , Lancet , Journal of the ACM , etc. ) ? If not , it is little more than a waste of time to try to add the information to your application . Late information is rarely added to application packets ( which these days are anyway handled almost entirely online -- convenient in certain ways but makes for an additional hassle when it comes to adding to or correcting an application or supporting documentation ) . However , if you have corresponded with some professor you would like to work with at the grad school that you are applying to , and have reason to believe this professor might be interested and able to influence the admissions committee , then I would certainly take the time to send a polite e-mail to this person indicating that your paper was accepted in such-and-such notable journal or conference . I would however avoid bringing up a rejection , and would also not take the trouble in case of acceptance of a less important article ( or one in a less-respectable forum ; e.g. , an op-ed in your college newspaper ) .
Although merit is certainly a factor in the hiring of research assistants , most people do n't consider assistantships as " grants or awards " . They are jobs . List them under " Positions Held " or " Academic Appointments " or the equivalent heading on your CV . Do not list your salary or the amount of your stipend - that 's not anybody 's business except you and your department . Some fellowships might be considered awards . They would usually be explicitly competitive in nature , and given by outside agencies . " Named " fellowships from endowed funds might also count , even if awarded by your department . But a research assistantship is not a fellowship .
One may prove their knowledge by these aspects . They may have a certificate of the courses they have passed . They may have a publication or patent registration in the field of their personal studies . They may have worked in the field of their knowledge and their projects and portfolio is a proof of their knowledge . A website designer may not have any certification of their design knowledge , but the websites they have designed are the proof of their knowledge . You may have done voluntary/paid teaching at your undergraduate university or in an educational institute , so you have the certification of your teaching activity and that may be counted as a proof of your teaching and your knowledge . ( Also teaching/research assistantships to a course which you have never passed but you did assistantship in that area . ) You may have some publications in the area of your knowledge , for instance , a published paper or book ; or a contribution to a publication which is so related to your knowledge . You may have done some jobs related to your knowledge . An engineering design , done some code-developing , etc. . You may have a recommendation letter from a professor in which has written that you have sit in their class for that course , but you have never registered for the course ; so it proves that you have the knowledge of the course . However , as far as you are registering for a graduate program , you must fulfill their requirements not what is generally/logically reasonable or what seems to be acceptable . So it is better to provide all your proofs in your CV or their application process website and let them ask you for more official documents . Also , you can email them and ask for your special issue . P.S. . It seems that your question indicates self-study knowledge , but some people may have done some non-degree programs and certificates of those courses may also prove their knowledge in the course .
Now you are a postdoc and not a graduate student anymore . As such , you will have many research ideas , that you will not have the time to implement yourself . So , it is time for you to start delegating this work to " less experienced " workforce than you . That means undergraduate , master or PHD students . So , you should discuss it with your advisor that you have a new idea and that you are planning to propose a new undergraduate or MSc thesis . Perhaps he might even propose , working with a graduate student who is a bit stuck at his current stage of his / her PHD , so working in your new idea might be beneficial to both of you . In any of these cases , co-authorship issues should be discussed early and thorough . For undergraduate , MSc students usually the assumption is that they do most of the work ( it is their thesis after all ) but you write the paper and you get to be first author . For teaming with PHD students , things are a little bit trickier , so these issues should be discussed in detail , BEFORE the cooperation begins . Also , make sure that your PI is OK not to be included in the subsequent publication ( since this is your idea after all ) . Of course , if you want to include your PI in your " additional " publication then by all means , go ahead ( this will also help you bend his objections about the time you will spend on your new project ) . But if you do not , make sure you discuss it before doing it , so you will not get into hot water . In this scheme , not only you can multiply the number of your publications more easily and faster but also you help other people , who might be your future collaborators . So , you really have nothing to lose .
" ... a quick - one , two , you 're published ! " That 's not how it works . What works is : Make it a publicly available preprint ( online repositories like arXiv , a preprint series of some institute , university , maybe via your personal website or blog ... ) . Submit to some peer reviewed journal that complies with papers that are available as preprints ( and there are journals that do not cost you anything ; you will not get " open access " for free , but in many cases the preprint can stay freely available ) . Put the paper in your CV and add " submitted for publication " . Then the paper will be visible and checkable and it also shows that you know how scientific publishing works .
I would definitely consider including this in your CV . It 's scientific work , and you <URL> . It would make sense to put this under a separate heading , so your publication list contains " Peer-reviewed publications " and " Non-peer-reviewed publications " - this way , you do n't give the impression of trying to inflate your publication list by sneaking in some non-reviewed stuff . If at a later date you have authored multiple R ( or other ) packages and perhaps published other non-reviewed material , you could subdivide the " Non-peer-reviewed publications " by splitting off software into its own section .
There is some possibility of this , but it would work only in certain restricted ways and in certain limited contexts . I do n't know of any reputable college or university that , when considering applicants for a position that already exists , consider an applicant 's willingness to accept less than the standard salary as a point in their favor . If you think this through , probably you can see why it makes everyone look bad . You might have some luck getting an academic institution to make a position with an unusual combination of duties and salary that is tailored to you . Here are some possibilities : At some institutions , faculty couples " share " positions in some fractional way : e.g. the couple together has 1.5 positions and each does 75 % of the work of a full-time faculty member . If someone had come to me with this as a new idea I would have rejected it as ridiculous , but nevertheless it actually exists in the real world . I know several examples . Similarly , you may be able to arrange a single position which is " part time " in some specified way : so maybe it is a visiting teaching position with half the normal teaching load and half the normal salary . In the very short term , such positions are common . It is not directly in the spirit of what you are asking about , but the effect could be similar . Finally , if salary is really no object , it is much easier to get a visiting scholar position which pays no salary whatsoever . I did this myself once : the summer after getting my PhD ( at Harvard ) , I moved back to my hometown ( Philadelphia ) and got an apartment in University ( of Pennsylvania ) City . I noticed that there was a wonderful library and gym a few blocks away from me , and I presented myself " cold " in the UPenn math department with a copy of my CV and my PhD . I walked out as a Visiting Scholar . ( Nowadays I think that what I did was a little weird : why not first contact some specific faculty member in the department ? Maybe I did n't know who to contact , or maybe I was curious to see if walking in cold and presenting Ivy League credentials would actually work . It did ! This " position " still appears on my CV . ) If what you are interested is not covered by the above , then I would say : in general this will be hard to swing , but if you have a more specific arrangement in mind you can ask about that ( e.g. here ) and maybe it can be worked out . Let me end by saying something that I suspect you already know : if you aspire to have anything like a conventional academic career in the future , advertising yourself broadly as someone who is willing to work at a discounted rate is a pretty bad idea . If you do seek to pursue this idea of yours , I would do so with much discretion .
In a CV you try to organize your important personal information in a clear and useful way for others to see and gain a good perspective . In this case you have a thesis . It should clearly be listed so that it is clear it is one of the outcomes of your degree . It is commonplace for people to turn a thesis into papers but that usually involves rewriting the material substantially . Such papers will be listed under headings such as , for example , " Peer-reviewed articles " , " Conference contributions " , " Abstracts " , etc. . In your case you could add your article under a heading such as " Conference contributions " , Non-reviewed articles " or " Other articles " ( the later only makes sense if you have a heading " Peer-reviewed articles " ) and make sure it is clear that the heading also implies the articles are not peer reviewed . If your article and your thesis is , in fact practically the same text with the same title , it would not be advisable to follow the guidelines outlined above . the reason is that it may seem to a reader of the CV as if you are trying to inflate your publication record . In that case you could perhaps make a note in the CV in conjunction with the thesis that it has also been published under the same name or to add it under a different heading but stating that the paper is the same as the thesis , thereby taking the possible edge of the double appearance . In the end it is clearly not a problem to publish thesis material after a degree and still count both the thesis and the resulting article but the basic rule is that a specific text should not be counted twice . It would then essentially count as self-plagiarism . So just act responsibly and be open and honest about issues that can cause confusion or raise eye-brows .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
It would n't be unethical for your boss to fire you 8 months after you take the job , if he wanted to . Labor is an exchange you and your employer enter into voluntarily . So , you should n't feel bad quitting after 8 months if you want to . It 's not an ethical problem at all . It is more plausible to think there might be a personal problem if this is a small industry that you would plan to re-enter after finishing the degree . Do n't tell your boss up front that you might quit in 8 months , that is n't any of his business . If you do accept an offer to do a phd somewhere , then you should tell him promptly , just as a matter of courtesy . This is to allow the company adequate time to find a replacement .
I 'm not an ocean physicist , or anywhere qualified in oceanography , nor do I have a slight idea of what your topic is on . That being said , research involving water , and any political ramifications that may impact it , typically will impact commerce related to the oceans . In this case , theoretical commercial impacts : Fishing . Your research may potentially result in a ban on fishing , or make it harder to obtain fishing licenses . Trade commerce . Ships are still used to transport goods around the world , including oil . As above , any sort of research that indicates that the oceans may be unsafe or bars certain trade routes will result in economical impacts down the line . National borders . Traditionally , countries own a specific amount of shoreline before international waters . A shifting shoreline may result in a changing border and or possible border disputes . Tourism . Obviously , effects of the water , even perceived , may impact tourism . Insurance . Rising tides = rising premiums . Whether or not these apply to your topic , I ca n't really tell , but it 's better to start with a list of things and then check them off as irrelevant gives the no ethical impact argument more weight .
If you are applying as an international student , you need TOEFL . It does not depend on you high school education . For international students , you will be considered as a non-native english speaker , so toefl is necessary . If you are applying as a domestic student ( meanign you have citizenship/greencard ) , you dont need toefl . Anyways , toefl is a very easy exam !
Professionally , they should understand , if explained to them in a polite and respectful way . After all it is your life , and they need to respect your decision . Yes , it is disappointing , but it should not burn bridges - good people are not easy to find and they should be happy to keep in touch ; who knows what the future brings . However , if they were so disappointed that they would be indeed offended by your decision , then it is likely that there are other problems lying in wait for you at that group , anyway .
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
If you know your field , it is easy to know how reputable some journal is . You find papers in it by the best people in your field publishing the most important results there you are already familiar with . On the other hand if you do not know your field yet , I would advise you to get to know it at the glance at least first . Familiarise yourself with the most important and fundamental results and findings and the most influential authors . You should identify these authors quickly by seeing them in many various papers cited again and again by different researchers . Then look where these authors published the papers to find out what journals are likely to be more reliable than others . Moreover , if you know your field , you should be able to discern a value and validity of a paper quickly from the abstract .
Just contact the editor in charge of your submission . It may not be the main editor but an associate editor . Usually , when you login in the website for managing submissions , there is often a link to contact the editor . If not , you may also know who is the editor in charge of your submission by reading the e-mail that was sent to you as confirmation when you submitted the paper . Otherwise , you may look for an e-mail on the website to contact the editor . Those are general guidelines . It may vary depending on the journal . But do n't worry . It is not a problem to remove a journal paper . This happen quite often .
end question
start question
What questions should I ask as a candidate during an interview for a tenure-track assistant professor position ?
I do n't think that most candidates are very good at faking interest . So , ask the questions you are genuinely interested in , and your interest will show through . It is true that you have to give the best impression you can during an interview , but you do n't want to come across as fake or scripted . I would start by reading the university , college , and department websites . That may give you some questions . If you run out of questions , you can always ask other faculty in the department about themselves . It is rumored that academics love to talk about themselves . You can also talk about your research , which is an easy way to make small talk and show off your communication skills . Given that general advice , here are some questions that I think are common and " safe " : Ask about the tenure process . How long is the probationary period ? What is the general process ? Is there any form of mid-tenure review ? Ask about teaching . What courses do new faculty typically teach ? How tightly controlled are they ? Will you have a lot of new preparations ? Do faculty often teach over the summer ? What process is used to make teaching assignments ( seniority , rotation , etc. ) ? Ask about benefits . They can tell you about the insurance and retirement benefits , which vary significantly from school to school . Ask about housing . Where do most of the faculty live ? How far from campus do they live ? How expensive is it to live in the area ? Are there any particularly nice locations to live near the college ? Ask about living in the area . Is it a lively place ? A quiet place that 's " good for raising a family " ? Is there much nightlife ? Is there convenient local shopping ? Is it good for biking ? Here are some questions that you have to think about carefully before you ask them : Salary . Some prefer to talk about this during the interview ; some prefer to wait until an offer is made . Two-body problems ( if your spouse is also looking for a job at the university or in the area ) . Again , some prefer to wait until an offer is made , others mention it early . See these questions : <URL> and <URL> Unusual goals . For example , if you are being interviewed by department X , but you want to work mostly with people in department Y . In some cases , this sort of thing is a mark in your favor - in others it will doom your chances of getting hired .
Yes you can . The " Assistant Professor " still teaches . The word Assistant is there to denote the rank within the academic system . Some have taught longer and are more accomplished and are rewarded accordingly . Actually , calling the person " Assistant Professor Jones " would be very awkward and cumbersome . It should be avoided .
As a busy professor myself , I personally appreciate getting a reminder email . I fully intend to reply to every email I get from a prospective student , even if only to say " Sorry , your research interests do not seem to be a good match for the work we are doing in my group . " But in practice , life gets busy . I 'm traveling . Or I 'm booked solid with meetings and so I do n't have time to immediate answer the 50 or so daily emails requiring responses . And so some emails fall through the cracks . Thus I appreciate receiving a single reminder email . Such emails help me do something I want to do : namely , be the kind of person who gives every serious inquiry the courtesy of a response . ( A second reminder email is not necessary . If I have n't replied the first two times , there is likely a reason . ) As for what to write , anything short and sweet and non-accusatory should be fine . Personally , I prefer the polite fiction that perhaps I did not receive the original email . You know it 's not true , I know you know it 's not true , but in phrasing your note this way we agree to mutually overlook these facts . I 'd suggest something very simple , such as the following . Dear Prof. X , I wrote you a letter a few weeks ago , but given the uncertainties of email I do not know whether you received it . Thus I am resending my note just in case . With my best regards , Joe [ and then append the earlier letter here ]
It 's rapidly becoming the norm at least at larger research universities ( R1s ) for all junior faculty to have assigned mentors from the senior faculty . At smaller institutions , they may not be assigned and so junior people have to find a mentor themselves from within the college , go externally , use their thesis adviser as a continuing mentor , or choose not to get mentored altogether . I 'm currently serving as a senior faculty mentor to a junior colleague ( I was assigned this person by my Chair ) and am an informal mentor to two others . As I see it , my roles are to : Show an active interest in my colleague 's work . Read their published and unpublished work . Go to their internal talks and try to go to their annual conference talks . Provide feedback . Serve as a soundingboard for my colleague -- which journal should they publish in , should they change the structure of their article , what should their publishing schedule be . Suggest , but do n't direct . Serve as an advocate for my colleague at senior faculty meetings and to the university at promotion and tenure time Take the colleague out for lunch from time to time . In general , try to be a decent human being to them . Especially at the larger R1s , decent human beings are rare so this takes quite an effort . :-) Note that I 've seen a lot of bad mentoring by senior faculty . I 'm not sure if they do this because of spite or because they are Evil People  . In my mind , bad mentoring is worse than no mentoring , so I 'm not sure if mandatory mentoring programs such as at my institution are a good idea .
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
The editor , who selects the reviewers , may not be familiar with the particular sub-area , when a journal is not hyper-narrowly focused . In that case , providing a list of potential reviewers directs the editor 's attention to possible scholars in the area . Once your attention has been drawn to an individual , you can spend some time discovering whether they would actually be good in that area .
It does not make a difference whether your review would be positive or negative , and it is your duty to keep your discussions about the student confidential . Should you choose to review their application , you should not tell the student or anyone not involved in the process that you are doing so . You are being asked to help your university , or maybe just a professor who trusts you , to help with their admissions and hiring process . You should take it seriously and give an honest review if you can . If you do n't feel like you can be objective in your review ( maybe the student is a friend or colleague ) , then you should decline to do so . But I do n't feel like there 's an ethical issue in the applicant not knowing that you 've been asked about them .
Learn how to say NO . It is very easy to say yes to every PC invitation , every paper collaboration , every committee , every this and every that . But this spreads your time too thin and means that you perform far less than optimally at everything you do . Ultimately , work encroaches too much on family time , and life becomes less enjoyable . Also , learn how to teach properly . Take a teaching course or two . It will make your job easier and increase the amount you enjoy teaching . See also : <URL> . Many of my comments there are applicable .
I do n't think that most candidates are very good at faking interest . So , ask the questions you are genuinely interested in , and your interest will show through . It is true that you have to give the best impression you can during an interview , but you do n't want to come across as fake or scripted . I would start by reading the university , college , and department websites . That may give you some questions . If you run out of questions , you can always ask other faculty in the department about themselves . It is rumored that academics love to talk about themselves . You can also talk about your research , which is an easy way to make small talk and show off your communication skills . Given that general advice , here are some questions that I think are common and " safe " : Ask about the tenure process . How long is the probationary period ? What is the general process ? Is there any form of mid-tenure review ? Ask about teaching . What courses do new faculty typically teach ? How tightly controlled are they ? Will you have a lot of new preparations ? Do faculty often teach over the summer ? What process is used to make teaching assignments ( seniority , rotation , etc. ) ? Ask about benefits . They can tell you about the insurance and retirement benefits , which vary significantly from school to school . Ask about housing . Where do most of the faculty live ? How far from campus do they live ? How expensive is it to live in the area ? Are there any particularly nice locations to live near the college ? Ask about living in the area . Is it a lively place ? A quiet place that 's " good for raising a family " ? Is there much nightlife ? Is there convenient local shopping ? Is it good for biking ? Here are some questions that you have to think about carefully before you ask them : Salary . Some prefer to talk about this during the interview ; some prefer to wait until an offer is made . Two-body problems ( if your spouse is also looking for a job at the university or in the area ) . Again , some prefer to wait until an offer is made , others mention it early . See these questions : <URL> and <URL> Unusual goals . For example , if you are being interviewed by department X , but you want to work mostly with people in department Y . In some cases , this sort of thing is a mark in your favor - in others it will doom your chances of getting hired .
Although it may be quite awkward , it is certainly acceptable to tell the student/colleague that you do not feel you can write a strong LoR for them , and to suggest that they ask someone else . This may seem rude or even unkind , but it 's much better for the student/colleague in the long run than a lukewarm or poor letter .
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
The answer is : it depends . The biggest factor is where you 're a graduate student . For instance , graduate students in Germany receive up to six weeks of vacation per year , while graduate students in the US may only get two weeks ' vacation per year , if even that much . However , I think that in the US , where policies are a bit less generous , the real deciding factor is your graduate advisor . I think that reasonable graduate advisors will permit students to take off a few weeks per year ( especially since most of them might do so themselves ! ) , provided that you make sure it does n't conflict with any major deadlines or events in your group . For instance , asking to take substantial vacation time just before your first big conference is probably inadvisable . But time during the holidays or during a relatively " quiet " time in your group ( whenever that happens to be ) would probably be OK .
There are no universal rules regarding employment status and being hired at US universities . In some fields , such as engineering , graduate students may be hired before they have completed any post-graduate professional experience . In contrast , in departments such as physics , it may be required to complete several post-doctoral appointments before being considered for faculty positions . There are some general guidelines , however : In less " applied " STEM ( science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ) fields , more time is generally required in academic positions before earning a full-time faculty position . In more " applied " fields , the time spent is reduced . Unfortunately , in some cases , although industrial experience is often seen as a good thing , it also has a tendency to make it difficult to jump back into a research field -- unless one has been employed in an industrial research capacity . In humanities fields , it 's very difficult of to be able to continue to a faculty position after leaving academia .
There is no requirement to disclose and given the current climate around mental health , I would not suggest disclosing . I would say that you had health problems that resulted in your having to leave your former school , but that these issues are under control and you are confident you will succeed at your new program . I would be sure you tell your letter writers to also use the vague rubric of " health problems " as some may inadvertently disclose without thinking about how you want to be framed .
Authors usually do n't and can not sell directly copies of their books , and the price is decided by the publisher . Of course , an author has their draft copy in electronic format , but they might not even have the final electronic version as published . Authors typically receive a few courtesy copies of their books , but they have no access to other copies for free . My suggestion however is to borrow the book from your university library : that 's what library are for , after all . If the library does n't have a copy , depending on your position , you can : Suggest the library to buy a copy . Many university libraries buy books according to the suggestions of their faculties : if you can not do this directly , probably your adviser can . Ask your library if they can loan it from another library . In many countries there is a system of interlibrary loans , and sometimes it works even across different countries .
I think there is a slight conflict of interest to the disadvantage of the applicant . You might be more negative in a reference addressed to your own employer ( to whom you may feel a duty to help as much as possible with their hiring process ) , than you would be in a reference addressed to a perfect stranger ( to whom you only owe a general duty not to defraud them ) . People recommend other people to their employers all the time , so this is something the hiring committee should be able to deal with . However , if you plan to actually say anything negative about the candidate in your reference ( " I do n't think this candidate has the experience to be interviewed for the role , let alone hired " ) , then you should make sure that the candidate fully understands the situation before choosing to use you as a reference . They might have other referees they 'd prefer to use in that case . As Kimball says in a comment , the existence of this conflict of interest is n't an ethical problem provided all parties understand it . The hiring committee knows your job and expects to take account of your relationship to the applicant when considering a reference , so no problem there . The student knows your job , so the only risk is if they do n't appreciate the implications of that . After that , if either of them thinks you 're too conflicted to use as a reference then they wo n't ask you for one , you do n't need to recuse yourself .
As the class you TA is a programming class , I 'll suggest two options I 've used - that have worked well for me ( after Googling Stack Overflow and Github of course ) . Both these options start by asking conversational questions ( " How are you doing ? Are you enjoying class ? " ) to help relax the student - when talking about the code in the next part hesitations and mistakes can be used as an indicator for a lack of knowledge but not if it is just nerves . Option 1 : better for mid-level to advance classes : Look at their coding before hand , make sure you have some notes on their coding style , preferred methods , and level of knowledge . Then select one of their programs and ask them to write out on paper/chalkboard/whiteboard some code that solves a similar problem . Let them know that you do n't expect error-free code and that if they ca n't remember an exact method to just use something close ( depending on the class pseudo-code may be acceptable ) . The point is that a person who has done the assignment should come up with something that follows the basic logic and coding style that was seen in their assignments - if it is way off you know they likely did not write it themselves - many times leading me to start option 2 with them . Option 2 : I would honestly use 2 or 3 assignments for this method . As it is easier to see if the progression makes sense this way ( a person does not typically go from if/else to building generators and decision trees in the span of a class or two * ) and it gives more material to discuss . Starting with one of the programs , I would then ask very open-ended questions about how the student came up with their solution . You want to avoid fact questions as your trying to see the knowledge and thought process not just a memorization of quiz answers . You can ask follow-up questions here but keep them limited and still open ( " can you explain that more " , " why did you use that particular method " , " did you try anything else " ) . Your looking for a few things here : Someone who wrote the code for themselves should flow through the conversation naturally - without having to pause and think about their answers as often . The student should be able to explain each method . If it is a complex method they may get lost or make a few minor mistakes - but they should be able to explain all the concepts . The thought process they describe should make sense . This should include both the method used and the reasoning for using that method : " I decided on a for loop over the dictionary keys as that just seemed more elegant and easier to maintain then the massive if/elif/else statements " . I 'm probably missing a few here , but the point is that your experience and knowledge will usually make it pretty obvious if someone actually wrote the code or not based on just how they explain it . * I had one student who did just this . Turns out he had been programming for a few years and was picking up the language at a much faster pace .
First , a couple of remarks for those not familiar with the Italian educational system , to provide more context ( the OP studies in Italy according to his user profile ) : In Italy , there are really no final exams : exams are distributed along the year in 3-4 sessions , and students can decide to take an exam much later than the end of the course . Thus , professors always receive students ' comments before the exams ( there 's no " after " ) . The kind of survey described by the OP was common in my university up to a few years ago ( now , it 's managed through a learning management system ) , and -- yes -- professors received handwritten forms ( e.g. I read the You must die remark described <URL> on a handwritten form ) . The survey should be typically handed back in class , so students ca n't hand it back after the exam as suggested in one of the comments . In the edit below I explain in more detail the mechanism . Should a student mitigate his/her judgment in the survey for fear of a harsher revision of his exam ? From my experience , I 've never seen anyone wasting time in trying to pair the calligraphy of the remarks with that of the exam papers ( I surely did n't ) , and I 'd consider retribution extremely rare ( though jerks exist ) . Therefore , I would n't bother mitigating your judgment , but be polite and keep it at a professional level . Note : How evaluations used to work in my university before the introduction of a learning management system ( and how they still probably work in the OP 's case ) Teaching evaluations are managed by a university office ( not a departmental level ) . In the paper era , toward the end of the courses , a professor would receive two sets of forms : one contained a questionnaire prepared by the competent office ; the other could be filled with free comments . During one of the lectures , the professor would hand the forms to the students and would give a ( 20-30 ) min break to fill them in . At the end , a volunteer among the students would collect the two sets and put them in two different envelopes . The envelope with the questionnaires would be closed , signed and delivered to the office by the volunteer ; the other envelope with the free , handwritten comments would be handed to the professor in class . So , the professor could read the comments before the end of the course and before any exam . Nowadays , we can still read the comments before the exams ( as I said in the first remark , there 's no way out for this ) , but they are no longer handwritten .
In-person requests are always the best route , because you can gauge willingness and eagerness to write the letters much more directly than via telephone or email . However , if you ca n't be there , because you 've moved away , then it is of course appropriate to ask for letters by email . Whether or not the professor will grant the request or not is of course a question . However , I would mention that you 've moved ( and where you currently are ) as part of your request , so that the professor knows why you 're not able to come in for a meeting if asked .
I assume that there are often-if-not-always internal candidates for open positions , in academia and outside . There are always students looking for Ph.D. slots , Ph.D. students looking for postdoc positions , assistant and associate professors looking to move up to the next level . ( Same for non-faculty positions , but that seems OT . ) Sometimes the people responsible for the position may not even know yet about such internal candidates , because they may not yet have sent in their application . So the question probably rather is whether these internal candidates are already frontrunners . The professor may want his extremely productive Ph.D. student to continue in the postdoc slot but may need to advertise externally for some procedural reason . The department may want to continue a certain research specialization and plan on promoting the retiring professor 's assistant prof. In such a situation , external candidates will need to be very convincing to win . But : how often will the external candidate be told this ? If the external advertisement is legally required , the hiring people may even open themselves up to litigation if they openly tell an applicant that they are only soliciting outside applications as a fig leaf . On the other hand , the department may explicitly be searching for " new blood " , so internal candidates may actually have worse chances than external ones . Which , again , nobody will tell you ( or the internal candidate ) . Of course , it makes sense to tap your network and see whether the grapevine can tell you more than official channels . However , this kind of information can be unreliable . So if you hear from multiple sources that a given position will be filled internally , it may make sense to not make the effort . Thus : there will likely be internal candidates , but you will probably not know how good their chances are . If you are a good match for the position , go and apply . Do n't worry about internal candidates . This is one part of the hiring situation you ca n't control , just like the mood of your interviewers . Giving up on an application because there is an internal candidate will be counterproductive in the long run .
end question
start question
Should one mention multiple , albeit somewhat unrelated research interests ?
If you can convey your enthusiasm for the overlap of these two somewhat distinct areas , you will be ahead of the game . A PhD candidate is expected to extend the limit of human knowledge , and one of the better ways to do so is to research within the overlap of two ( or more ) disciplines . I would tend to see having more than one area of interest as being an advantage rather than a disadvantage . Of course , as your question implies , a multiplicity of interests can backfire by causing a candidate to appear unfocused . Focus on the overlap , and make your application shine !
To the host country : Positive : A host country that is able to import top talent from other countries has a greater chance of keeping them in the country after graduation . This , undoubtedly , is an effort to promote national interests in a specific field ( typically , scientific ) . Often , importing students to to do research is low cost ( in comparison to hiring full time scientists or professors ) and typically yields lots of deliverables ( e.g. research papers ) in a short time . Negative : A host country takes a lot of risks when it invests in a foreign student . There no guarantee that student even graduates , much less that he/she remains in the country after graduation , or in any way promotes the host country 's national interests . To the home country : Positive : A home country that can produce top talent gains a reputation international level for its education system ( for better or worse , regardless of whether this is actually true or not ) . Negative : A home country has the potential to lose its top talent to other countries , which is often counterproductive to its national interests ( especially scientific interests ) . In addition to the countries , i feel it is important to discuss the benefits and risks that this presents to the student as well : To the student : Positive : The student can gain a high quality education , typically with no strings attached . When they graduate , they are free to choose their destiny ( assuming that they even have the option of staying in their host country ) . Negative : The student effectively becomes low-wage , indentured migrant labor to the host institution . Students are often not promised jobs or citizenship in their host country , but are often led to believe that " it is possible if you work hard enough " . This will often lead to foreign students out performing their domestic counterparts , but sadly offers little pay , benefits , or guarantees to the foreign student . As J.J. points out , if a foreign student screws up in some way , they lose ( potentially ) their only chance of a better life outside of their home country .
Keep it short and succinct , I would say a paragraph is good , unless otherwise stated in the application . If this means that you only have enough space to talk about one of those areas , then pick one . If the conference is more geared towards pure mathematics , I would suggest expanding on your interest in cryptography . Otherwise , if it is an applied mathematics conference , then talk about your studies in biological math . Chances are schools which specialize in pure mathematics will attend a pure mathematics conference , and likewise for applied math . If you want to find out the universities who are attending , just ask an event coordinator . I 'm sure there is n't any secrecy surrounding who is attending .
You can certainly mention a professor and his/her research in your statement of purpose as long as it is genuine . This can show that you are a ) familiar with the school/the department and its faculty and b ) you have a good understanding of the field and your interests within it . There is certainly nothing wrong with saying ' One of the reasons that I chose this school is because Prof. X 's work on XYZ is very interesting , and I would love the opportunity to learn from him/her and his/her work . ' Do n't , however , try to name-drop for the sake of it . You should also make sure that you do a little research to make sure that that professor is actually still going to be doing work during your time at that school . It looks kind of bad if you say ' I really want to work with Prof. A , ' but Prof A is going to be on sabbatical or something like that . This kind of information is not always readily available . In short , do n't be afraid of mentioning a prof if you really mean it and are really excited , but do n't look up someone from each school you are applying to for the sake of putting a name in your paper .
You can submit both papers to one or two different conferences , as long as you have two new contributions in them . Side Note It is advised not to cut the " meaty " part of a very nice contribution , into two or more different papers/journals . This sort of " slicing " put your future academic life at risk , because there are some academics that write many poor papers , by just slicing a contribution into different papers ; and they are very well known for their " efforts " . So , do not put your academic career at jeopardy , and think this through ( i.e. , contribution ( s ) you want to discuss in each paper ) .
You seem ( at least in your question ) to have skipped over a middle option : as a PHD student in computer science at an American university , it is likely that with no additional paperwork you can enroll in graduate courses in the statistics department . ( As with all things academic , it would be good to run this past your supervisor , but as long as you can explain ( i ) why you think it will be useful to you and ( ii ) why it will not significantly impede the progress on whatever else you are supposed to be doing , s/he ought to be supportive of it . If the statistics coursework is directly relevant to your thesis research , s/he ought to be enthusiastic , even . ) You can then take exactly the courses to develop the knowledge and skills you need . I do n't know your situation , but it seems very unlikely that what you want to learn will coincide precisely with the set of requirements for a master 's degree in statistics . And in terms of your credentials : unless you are looking for a post-PhD position specifically in statistics , given that you already have one master 's degree and are going for a PhD , I do n't see a second master 's degree in statistics as having much value to you . ( Even then , unless your career goal is to be some kind of adjunct lecturer in a statistics department , a second master 's degree is not guaranteed to be directly helpful : if you have specific career goals then you should ask around as to what credentials best help you achieve these goals . ) As to the value of the coursework itself versus the time for your CS research : Suresh 's comment is the best answer that I can think of to that . You 're right ; there are pros and cons to be weighed against each other . We ca n't do that for you nearly as well as you can do it for yourself . Your supervisor is the natural person to go to for some additional insight , but in my opinion the final decision is really yours .
Many do n't speak about this too often , but with an advisor you are not only choosing a field of interest , but you are choosing a mentor . By all means , you want to " tick well " with him/her . There is not much good for a PhD student having a star researcher advisor whom they see once in a quarter and who is a sociopath on a personal level ( this is a bit too extreme , but think about it as a continuum between extremes ) . Choose somebody with whom you will be able to work , whose example it is worth to follow , from whom you want to learn , not only the scientific stuff , but also workstyle , level of quality he/she strives for , etc. . These soft reasons are often more important than anything else . For highlighting of all the examples of stuff you do n't want to fall into ( but will anyway :-) ) , go and look at the <URL> . P.S. I am speaking with a European-centric attitude , where you choose your advisor , since he/she will be your boss , rather than being assigned to one as it seems to happen in the US system . Still , the point is worth to consider . Germans have a good term for this , your PhD supervisor is your " Doktorvater " , i.e. , " doctor father " . That very much speaks how the relationship should end up in an ideal case .
I think it is worth mentioning . Of course , you do n't need to say " my health issues caused a B + " . Just mention the health issue at that particular time , and what you had to do to complete your work . Besides explaining your performance that semester ( and a single B + is n't very much to worry about ) , this shows your ability to overcome adversity and still succeed . Here are some other questions about explaining lower grades for non-academic reasons , and the answers largely seem to agree that it is a good idea to mention the circumstances : <URL> <URL>
Typically , academic papers have traditionally provided the lists of works referenced , rather than bibliographies . Primarily , this is a matter of space , as well as recognizing work that has actually been used . Otherwise , it 's too easy to include a bunch of random entries that have nothing to do with the paper in question . ( It 's still possible to do so in a works cited list , but you at least have to make the effort to work it into the paper somehow . ) In general , you should only include both lists if the journal in question allows such behavior . If you are publishing the paper in a venue that does not have such requirements , then you are of course free to include both lists if you choose . ( Although I would not repeat the references list in the bibliography list , again to save space . )
Yes . They are going to see it in your CV anyway and if you say nothing , it just looks like you are trying to hide something and they are going to assume the worst . I would tell them the reasons why I quit ( e.g. what to do something applied , ... ) .
Yes . You could mention it in your SOP and/or in your CV . I have received some applications from students in which they mentioned a technical blog , and so far it has always left a positive impression . In my opinion , keeping such a blog demonstrates : Maturity in writing and communicating ( especially if your blog communicates something technical in an informal way that is not sloppy ) . Organization of thought and effort . Initiative . Love for learning ideas relevant to your discipline .
Imagine for a moment that Dr A does n't want any help and would see you as competition . Would leaving off your knowledge of and interest in T help prevent Dr A from suggesting they hire someone else ? I doubt it . Now imagine that you include mention of topic T but do n't mention Dr A. Perhaps they will think " this applicant does n't even realize we have a world expert on T here already ! " Suggesting you can help Dr A may be a bit presumptive . But saying that you love topic T and are already working on it , and that the presence of Dr A in the department is one of the reasons you want to come to this group ? That sounds very positive to me . Is there a reason you are n't contacting these Dr As directly and saying " I 'm thinking of applying to your department because I 'm so excited about topic T ; do you have any advice for me ? " That seems like a good use of your time if the number of Dr As is reasonably small .
Many , if not most , journals specify a maximum of three levels . In a book where the chapter is the top level , four may be ok considering each chapter can be as extensive as a paper . The problem of having too many levels is that the headings disrupt the reading . A good sign of this is when you end up having one heading per paragraph . If that is the case , you can probably remove the lowest level of headings and try to make the resulting segments of text flow by inserting bridges that makes paragraphs into a coherent text . In my experience having read numerous student reports , theses and articles , three is a good goal . It is rare that a fourth level adds much in terms of structure apart from perhaps helping the writer . In fact , I often recommend students to keep a more detailed list of headings to enable them to see the structure of what they are writing but under the pretext that only a maximum of three should remain in their final version . I stand by that recommendation .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
I do n't think it is relevant to your applications . It was a short period , and many students take advantage of the summer break for such things as travel , time with family , gainful employment , volunteer activities . It would be different if you had had a break from your studies of a year or more . Best of luck to your family .
Lying on an application form is a really bad idea , it would probably destroy any chance you could have to be accepted . So , if the question is asked , you probably should answer truthfully . As for why it is asked , it also depends on how a program works . If it 's a very competitive program , maybe your application was good , but there were just better candidates than you . In that case , it could be worth applying again . If , on the other hand , the committee just decided that your application was not good enough , then applying again is risky . In any case , you would have to demonstrate that you have significantly improved your application during the last year .
Why would knowing in advance matter to anyone except cheaters ? This information will not help honest students prepare for the exam or change how they approach it , so for them announcing it afterwards seems just as good as in advance . One argument for announcing it in advance is that some potential cheaters might decide not to try to cheat ( and spend more time studying or become a little more honest ) , but the counterargument is that it might just encourage them to find more effective methods of cheating . I do n't consider either of these arguments especially compelling , and I 'm not convinced it really matters much whether the announcement is before or after the exam . This issue tends to come up in large courses , which are often pretty standardized . I 'd bet the students who care whether there are multiple versions of the exam can easily find out what this professor has done in other large classes , so there usually wo n't be much of an element of surprise .
It is often remarkable to me just how much work a person will put in just to avoid doing a different piece of work . In this case , it sounds to me like the committee made exactly the right call : it sounds like rubbish work deserving a terrible grade , but certainly not plagiarism .
Always use the order of authors as given in the book or article , regardless of the reference style ( Harvard or otherwise ) . The order of authors has some significance in many disciplines ( for example , in my field the first author is the one who did the most work ) . So , no referencing system asks you to change the order of authors .
" All university level courses taken " means " all university level courses taken " , so yes , you should submit it too . Otherwise , if at any point they discover that you had been enrolled in that masters , you could be in trouble for lying . Even if they do n't require you to submit it , you will have to explain what were you doing during that time . And a bad master 's is far better than sitting at home doing noting . Now , you do n't want it to hurt your application , so you should consider explaining in your cover letter why you did poorly . That should n't be too difficult , I think a good bachelor and a bad master is still better than just a good bachelor .
end question
start question
Whether to exclude standard deviation in plot of outcomes of a series of experiments ?
Do n't do this . Here is some random data with 21 experiments A-U , each one repeated 3 times . In both cases , the experimentwise means ( indicated using red crosses ) are identical , but the within-experiment standard deviations are very different ( 1.0 in the top graph and 0.2 in the bottom one ) . R code is below . <URL> Just seeing the experimentwise means is very misleading . In the bottom case , the experiments seem to be pretty different , and you could start interpreting the differences between them . In the top case , it 's rather obvious that the difference between experiments is dominated by the variance within experiments . Put differently : the proportion of variance explained by the experiments is very different between the two cases . This is a crucial piece of information . Do not leave it out . Leaving the variability out does not " blur the results to the reader " - the variability may be more important than the means . In particular , remember that most readers will only look at your graphics , and even if they do read the text , the main thing they will remember will be the graphic . If you only put the means there , readers will remember the means . They wo n't remember whether the standard deviations were large or small compared to the differences in means . So : look for a way to visualize both means and variability . For starters , do n't use bar plots . Use , for example , dotcharts as I did . With your small dataset , you can without problems plot all your data , plus means . If you want to emphasize the means , you can do all kinds of things involving colors , shapes or sizes . For instance , I used smaller grey dots for the observations so the means ( larger red crosses ) stood out more . And I used vertical lines to indicate experiments , and these lines are a lighter shade of grey than the dots . Note that the human brain is better at interpreting positions ( as in a dot chart ) than lengths ( as in a barplot ) . Nor should you use so-called " dynamite plots " , that is , bar plot with " whiskers " that indicate standard deviations ( or standard errors of estimated means - one problem with dynamite plots is that it is not always indicated whether whiskers give SDs or SEMs , and these are very different things ) . See <URL> and <URL> for more on dynamite plots . <URL> gives a few more options for visualizing data . <URL> code :
With a proper citation , and if the total content of the paper has enough substance that is original , and the supervisor/advisor is happy with it , and the other faculty are too , then it is fine .
I ca n't think of how an excellent letter of recommendation from a professor in an unrelated field of study could hurt you . Perhaps if it was the only ( excellent ) letter of recommendation , maybe then . But you mentioned you have an excellent letter from your employer and can ( I assume ) get at least one more good letter from someone else , so I think you are in a good position . You are right , his letter of recommendation would not be about your technical skills related to EE , but it would mention your characteristics , work ethics , teamwork ability in a very good light . Research writing course is also not that far away from EE . It shows you are more diverse than the stereotypical programmer or engineer . You worked with this specific professor for 2 semesters , he could give you an outstanding letter of recommendation . I think his letter will give you more than any single average/solid letter from other professors .
I have undertaken to create such lists as an academic exercise myself , and quite a lot of effort is involved in doing this . There are a variety of approaches that I will suggest , and I would place more emphasis on the first approaches . Literature review papers : Look for literature reviews on the subject of interest . Read the reviews ' analysis and discussion of the state of research , there should usually be a discussion of how the state got where it is , and their citations should point you right at the seminal works . Paper Cites : review known papers of interest for their citations . You 'll want to recurse back to this strategy as more papers become known to you . Textbook tables of citations : Review several respected textbooks that cover the subject , and inspect their citations for more works that you want to be aware of . Reputation , reference : Ask professors and PhD students in the field what papers they think are important . Some professors may not be particularly helpful , but some may drop a comprehensive bibliographic database right in your lap . Seminar Reading Lists : Ask for the reading list for PhD student seminars in the field . Most Downloads/Read : This might not lead you to seminal works , per se , but seminal works will tend to be more read , and this provides another way of categorizing and prioritizing your review the literature . For example , if one paper has been downloaded at a rate 1000 times higher than another on the same topic , you might choose to examine the former first . Also , you 'll need to keep track of your efforts . Expecting to solely rely on your memory is not only wrong , but likely to mean you 've wasted much of your research time . I use <URL> with integration in Firefox , to track the papers I 've read . If I get papers or books in electronic form , Zotero can also store the electronic copy for me . It can also quickly create a table of references for you , and has some other nice features . It also has competitors that I 'm not as familiar with , of note are Mendeley , a freemium model platform , and Endnote , a rather popular and mature commercial platform .
I do n't know about combinatorics in particular , but I did get a PhD from one of Carnegie Mellon 's other interdisciplinary programs ( Pure and Applied Logic ) ; I was offered the choice of whether my PhD would officially be in the program name or in " Mathematical Sciences " , and was advised to choose the latter . If you 're PhD is in something other than " Mathematics " or an obvious synonym , and you want to get hired as mathematics faculty , there are two concerns that might come up : Do you know enough math , broadly speaking , to be a good colleague ( for instance , be out outside member on thesis committees , to talk to people , and so on ) ? Can you teach introductory courses ? I do know of people with degrees called " Logic " where these concerns were raised about hiring them . In the cases I know , someone was around to address those concerns , but it might be a disadvantage in departments where no one in the faculty was familiar enough with the program to address them . ( On the other hand , places where no one is familiar with your program are n't as likely to hire you anyway . ) With a degree in something as clearly mathematical as combinatorics , I think the first concern is unlikely to be an issue . The latter might be , especially if those programs do n't necessarily include any TA-ing/teaching of intro calculus courses , but this is also a concern that can be preempted ( for instance , by making sure to pursue enough teaching experience as a grad student ) .
I think of requests for revision as falling into three basic categories , sorted in order of importance : New technical results ( e.g. , additional experiments , more theorems ) Large-scale text improvement ( e.g. , reorganizing text , dealing with pervasive language issues ) Localized text improvement ( e.g. , improving explanations , adding references ) Of these , only a request for new results should be of concern as a possible road to rejection : for the other two , if you want the paper published , if one cares to one can typically always put in sufficient work to address reviewer comments . It may be hard , unpleasant , and unrewarding ( depending on the particulars ) , but this is an area where any request for revision almost always has a clear path to publication , and of a stronger paper than you started with . Requests for new technical results , on the other hand , might or might not be something that you can not reasonable address . If you can address them , then it 's still a clear road to publication of a stronger paper . If you ca n't , however , then it 's a question of scope and may be worth discussing with the handling editor to see whether they are a sine qua non for publication . In general , however , my feeling about requests for revision , even major revision , is that they 're generally good news . Once a paper hits at least a major revision , it 's highly likely to be eventually accepted if the authors just keep answering the requests for improvement , and will likely be the stronger for it . There are exceptions ( I just had one rejected by a journal for the rather unusual reason that " they only allow one revision , " ) , but in my experience these most frequently reflect an author who has chosen to fight the reviewers rather than to improve the paper .
One solution to <URL> is <URL> ( open source , BSD license ) , which is a Python module that implements a querier and parser for Google Scholar 's output . Its classes can be used independently , but it can also be invoked as a command-line tool . Amongst other things , it can fetch the number of citations of an article .
1 . Consider non-proprietary format as a good practice You might find an argument in the Tim Berners-Lee <URL> . When discussing Open Data ( something we should be embracing more in academia as well ) , he presents the following : Under the star scheme , you get one ( big ! ) star if the information has been made public at all , even if it is a photo of a scan of a fax of a table -- if it has an open licence . The you get more stars as you make it progressively more powerful , easier for people to use .  Available on the web ( whatever format ) but with an open licence , to be Open Data   Available as machine-readable structured data ( e.g. excel instead of image scan of a table )    as ( 2 ) plus non-proprietary format ( e.g. CSV instead of excel )     All the above plus , Use open standards from W3C ( RDF and SPARQL ) to identify things , so that people can point at your stuff      All the above , plus : Link your data to other people 's data to provide context It is best to publish in an non-proprietary format ( csv would be fine ) as you claimed . Stars 4 &amp; 5 are for Linked Data structure which is a nice thing to aim . 2 . Publish in a reliable repository thinking long-term preservation Citation and versioning are very important if you want to alter something on your data-sets in the future . I would recommend you publish your data in <URL> . Research made publicly available of figshare gets allocated a DataCite DOI at point of publication . It supports versioning as well . Another alternative for a repository is <URL> suggested by <URL> below
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
The main practical difference between the two degrees , as you point out , is the requirement of a research thesis for the MS degree . Generally , if you have aspirations of eventually getting a PhD , you should strongly consider the MS , as research experience or potential is a large factor in being admitted to a PhD program . To answer your specific question , you should be a better researcher after completing an MS , and you will be better prepared for further graduate work . With an ME degree ( considered a " terminal " degree ) , you 'll simply have a Master 's degree and ( potentially ) may have spent more time on your coursework . Whether or not this prepares you better for a position in industry is debatable -- as you say , many ME programs are one year , which may actually include fewer classes than an equivalent MS ( although I 've generally seen ME programs that have one or two more classes as a requirement than the equivalent MS degree ) . As to which degree leads to more jobs in industry , I 'd say it 's probably about the same . Getting an MS will certainly not limit your competitiveness for industry jobs , while ( as I already mentioned ) , an ME may limit your competitiveness for PhD programs .
You need the journals ... Nothing will move without it . The American Economics Review has taken the lead in requiring all data papers to make their data and source code available . Unfortunately , there 's no real indication that other journals will follow suit , despite the formidable reputation of AER . Sadly , even the AER does n't have a clear repository and not all code is available even though they require it of the authors . Beyond that , David Card has a nice repository of sorts for structural econometrics data . Josh Angrist and David Autor should be praised for creating Data Archives that document their own work . But at this point it 's still up to individuals to make their research transparent and their code available . For what it 's worth , I 've been thinking about this issue a lot lately and decided to create a Google Code Project where economists can upload their code : <URL> ... That said , I have not yet tried to publicize it and think the ultimate key to adoption lies with the journals .
Some quotes from <URL> : ETH is a federal institute ( i.e. , under direct administration by the Swiss government ) , whereas the University of Zrich is a cantonal institution . [ ... ] In the beginning , both universities were co-located in the buildings of the University of Zrich . [ ... ] Events of the neighboring University of Zrich are well-attended by ETH students and vice versa . [ ... ] The amicable rivalry between ETH and the neighbouring University of Zrich has been cultivated since 1951 [ ... ]
Every journal has its own preferences for this . Use a citation management package like BibTeX or EndNote , and follow the style guide of the journal you submit to . In the end , it does n't truly matter as long as your readers can find the article , but it 's best to follow the journal 's instructions in the case that they do actually care .
In general , degrees are given by universities , technological institutes , and other similar accredited institutes of higher learning . A degree without such an accreditation in place offers extremely limited value . While this does appear to be a " real " organization , it does not appear to have any accreditation , which would make its degrees worthless junk .
Usually the system goes like this : Good answer = get some points , no answer = no points , wrong answer = negative points . Note that by this system , students who do n't study a part of the material do get penalized by not getting any points , is just that the penalty is not as big as by guessing the wrong answer . I do believe that this system works well as it is and would be wrong to penalize wrong answers . The catch is that the system has to be designed in such a way that the expected value for random guessing should be lower than the expected value for no answers . Here is why I think why negative blanks would be wrong : In theory , the goal of the tests is to test what the students know and what they do n't know . By encouraging them to leave blanks when they do n't know the answer it becomes clear even to them what they do not know and what they know . Also , by forcing them to answer at random the grade of average and weak students becomes more a measure of luck than of knowledge . A weak student who guesses by luck 7 out of 12 answers will get more points than a student who does n't know 6 answers but misses all 6 of them . And if you think that this is not relevant , ask yourself the following question : would you trust your doctor if he passed his classes by guessing the answers ? Would you trust him if he diagnoses by randomly guessing ? P.S. Just to clarify , the answer to your question depends by what you understand by " improved test results " . For me the relevance of a test is to test the actual knowledge of the students , and a test result is good if there is a strong correlation between the knowledge and the result . In this sense , the test results would definitely not improve . If by test results you understand the average score , then the scores would improve . But then , instead of doing this just give each student 100 % , that would be the best test ever right ? But then , the score of the " best test ever " would be completely irrelevant , and most likely useless ( especially in the cases where the score is used for ranking i.e. admission , scholarships , . . )
The gold standard is blind , independent replication . However , this almost never happens because it costs a similar amount ( of materials and time ) and there is less benefit to the researcher who repeats the experiments , so there is little incentive . Next down would be independent replication by another group , then replication within the same group . The bare minimum is that the experiment be described in sufficient detail to be reproduced . For example , the ' Instructions to Authors ' in the Journal of Infection and Immunity ( which is fairly typical ) states : the Materials and Methods section should include sufficient technical information to allow the experiments to be repeated . Reproducibility is one of the most important issues when describing or reviewing a scientific paper ( <URL> ) . Knowing that a result is less likely to be attributable to a chance combination of uncontrolled parameters , or a mistake on behalf of the scientist conducting the experiment or recording the experimental conditions , increases confidence that the result seen is a ' genuine ' phenomenon . As Karl Popper , the founder of the scientific method , put it : Non-reproducible single occurrences are of no significance to science . ( Popper 1959 , The logic of scientific discovery . Hutchinson , London , United Kingdom . ) Unfortunately , most journals place a high premium on novelty and therefore it is more difficult to publish reproductions of previous studies , and when these are published they are often in less important journals . Funders , similarly , direct reviewers to score grant applications based , amongst other things , on novelty . This greatly reduces the incentive to replicate published studies - if you ca n't get funding to do something and you would n't be able to publish it anyway , it wo n't get done . Two other major and common obstacles to independent validation are : that it requires the involvement of another lab with the same resources and skills , which might be very rare ; For experiments involving animals specifically , there is an ethical requirement to <URL> . The lack of reproducibility of experiments is a problem in most areas of science and awareness of this is growing . In 2012 this prompted the <URL> , where researchers can pay a fee for blind , independent replication prior to publication . <URL> This sounded like a step in the right direction at the time but as far as I know awareness of the initiative remains fairly low , uptake has not been great and ' proper ' reproduction remains very rare indeed .
Taking the job would probably mean permanently leaving academia behind , and giving up the prospects of ever finishing your Ph.D. . If you 're okay with that ( which you might well be ) , then I think it 's fine to take the industry job . I also recommend trying to figure out what your future job prospects are if you decide to finish your degree ( and conversely , what your future job prospects might be if you take this industry job and it does n't pan out ) . The comparison to your PhD salary seems a bit strange unless your circumstances are unusual ( e.g. you really need the money now ) . Whatever you decide , I recommend putting your own future first , and thinking less both about your present salary and about your PhD advisor .
Somewhere during my studies I have learnt , that a figure and its caption should form a self-contained element . That means , if I isolate a single figure and its caption from a random publication and gave it to you , you should from those bits of information be able to deduce what this figure is about and what you see there . That does of course not mean , that a physicist must be able to understand the full implications contained in a figure drawn by a chemist or vice versa , but they should be able to understand that " fancy stuff " is in the top left , " other fancy stuff " in the center is indicated with some arrow annotations and a drawn overlay indicates the mechanism that makes them do whatever is interesting . So in your special case , either make a legend containing the meaning of your different colored nodes or , if that is not possible , describe that in the caption . You can repeat that in the text if you feel it 's necessary , but you 're not obliged to do so in general . Also , it 's no obligation to put into the figure caption the full interpretation of the implications you draw from this figure -- this should go to the text . Hence the figure caption could be something like Figure 1 : Process scheme of the process of doing fancy stuff . Yellow nodes indicate XX , red ones show YY and green ones TT . In the text , there can then be the interpretation of the figure , for example : The process scheme of this is shown in Figure 1 . As can be seen from the arrangement of the red , yellow and green nodes , everything is very colourful -- which is very good in our case -- and the guys at management would love it . However , a closer look at the connection between node " foo " and node " bar " reveals , that there could be some problem in [ whatever fancy stuff you want to say ] ... TL ; DR : Put the stuff that is necessary to understand what 's in the figure either directly into the figure ( legend ) or into the caption . The discussion of the figure can go to the text .
Email the work to someone ( or yourself ) well before you hand it over . Also , try to relax . It is not likely someone will try to pass your work off as theirs because they would be aware that you were going to hand the same piece of writing in and that would lead to trouble for both of you . I think the reason he is getting you to do it is to get you used to how things work in a research environment . So it is not such a bad thing , maybe .
When it comes to conferences , if there were submitted papers , and they were published as a volume , that volume is called the proceedings . A paper that was published in the proceedings must have been accepted by the conference . Sometimes the proceedings are published as a standalone work , and sometimes they are published as a special issue of a journal . It should be noted that some societies publish a journal that has " Proceedings " in the title , such as the " Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences " or the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " . These should be distinguished as standalone journals and not confused with the proceedings of a conference .
end question
start question
what do you do if your PhD advisor publishes a solo paper on your topic ?
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
Most central European universities do n't traditionally have QEs . However , it seems to me as if it is getting more popular to have something after the first one or two years of your programme . Two data points : In my current university , PhD students need to defend their thesis proposal after ( maximum ) two years . This includes writing their proposal , receiving written comments by two other ( i.e. , not their advisor ) professors of the faculty , and presenting and defending their proposal in front of the entire faculty ( our faculty is pretty small ) . Questions are asked in this defense , but not typically about material that is not directly linked to the proposal . In theory students can fail at this step , but is is very uncommon . The goal is rather to force students ( and advisors ) to have a clear goal of where the thesis is going early on , something that was historically a bit of a problem . When I did my PhD , we did not really have any sort of entry exam or defense in my alma mater . However , since then , they have switched to a model not unlike what I explained above . The main difference is that proposals are only presented ( there is no written document ) , and that only a small committee is responsible for giving feedback on the proposal ( not the entire faculty ) . This defense has to be taken one year after start of the PhD . Failing this defense is again very uncommon . Summary : the places I am well aware of do n't have stressful QEs . Instead , we traditionally had pretty much nothing . Nowadays , many places have a proposal defense instead of a QE , but this is not a step that students typically have to be stressed out about .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
Do you want to dissuade the student from continuing because You think the student is not capable because of a lack of ability , You think the student might be capable , but just is n't engaging in the work , You do n't see the student is worth investing your time in , You think the student is wasting his/her money ? If ( 1 ) , then a frank discussion might be the best way . I have seen other PhD supervisors directly let their PhD students know that they think a research career is not for them . If ( 2 ) , you ought to move from dissuasion to a frank discussion in which you try and figure out the reason for the downturn in engagement . Is all well at home ? Is it just the usual mid ( ? ) thesis malaise ? Has the student lost the big picture and therefore the drive to do the research ? Why did the student start the research in the first place ? Has the situation changed - e.g. has the life goals been redefined/changed ? If ( 3 ) and/or ( 4 ) , if the student is paying for themselves , then it 's their money they are potentially wasting so I would n't concern yourself on how other people spend their money . However , the money is presumably paying your salary in part so your obligations to the student remain in that regard . In return however , you can set reasonable expectations on your student . If you make it clear that you expect your student to achieve reasonable goal A by reasonable deadline Z , and the student does n't , then that opens up another opportunity for a frank discussion along the lines of the need for effective prioritisation of research work and for-money work . EDIT : To bring this answer into line with the edited question , I would set out an agreed plan of work - and behaviour ( esp . showing up to meetings ) - with deadlines for the next 2/6/12 months . You might want to work with your Head of Department/School on this to ensure that your requirements are reasonable . It appears that you have already said to the student that in your opinion the student is n't PhD material . In setting out your agreed workplan , you are giving - formally - the opportunity for the student to show that he or she is capable of working to an agreed standard . If , as you say , the student is n't capable , then the student will fail and you can reasonably excuse yourself as his PhD supervisor . I am suggesting this cautious approach , as I am sure your Faculty will want to know why things went this way , and that you offered the best opportunity for your student ( or fee-paying client ) to succeed , before you ceased to be his supervisor .
What do you want to do with your life ? University is one way of getting to some of the answers . Trade school or apprenticing is another , if you think that 's closer to what you want to spend your life doing . It 's also legitimate to say you do n't know yet -- in which case you need to decide whether starting classes would help you decide what interests you , or if doing something else for a year makes more sense . I knew what I wanted to study ( or thought I did ; turns out I was close but not on the mark ) , but even so I decided to take a year off before college ; I needed a bit of maturation time , and to switch from being the youngest in the class to being one of the older kids , for my own comfort . Spent the year doing volunteer work in a hospital ( electronic repair , " biomedical engineering " ) , which was certainly educational in the general sense , helped build my self confidence , and may actually have helped my college application stand out from others . " ... There are nine and sixty ways / of constructing tribal lays , / And every single one of them is right ! " -- Kipling
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
There 's nothing academia specific about this that I can see . I would answer it as recommended . Your examples seem largely fine to me , except " I have trouble managing my work-life balance " is too vague and could be interpreted as a very serious issue . So I would avoid that or make it more specific . I would n't spend too much time preparing for this question . Its reputation as a common interview question is greater than the reality . I 've never been asked it ( at interviews in and out of academia ) . It 's a poor interview question , really , because it 's unlikely to lead to genuine insight on the candidate . Good interviewers do n't ask it . Your main task is just to avoid a big mistake . Do n't say your biggest weakness is plagiarism or stabbing colleagues in the back , and you 'll be fine .
The other answers do n't really address the issue of recommendations , so let me , at least briefly . I 've been on our math PhD admission committee several times and we get many applications from people who 've gotten their undergrad some time ago . First , yes there is some truth to it being easier to get in right after your undergrad degree . The letters of recommendation are important . If your professors know you quite well , and the department is relatively small , they should still be able to write you decent letters after a year or two hiatus , but if it gets to 5-10 years , they may not , and with that kind of time lapse , their letters wo n't count for as much anyway . My advice would be to consider what else you want to do . Is there something else you really want to do for awhile ( peace corps , travel , interesting job opportunity ) ? If so , it wo n't kill your chances for grad school , but you may have to apply to more backup schools . If you 're out for longer , it might be best to do a masters first before getting into a PhD program . If you do n't have any definite ideas , why do n't you try applying to a few masters programs ( Vladhagan 's suggestion of trying a masters first is a good idea to give you a sense of what you want to do and give yourself a better background ) and a few PhD programs that seem interesting to you ? At the same time , maybe go to a career fair and send out a few job applications in the spring ? The PhD programs that accept you ( at least if you 're in the US ) at least should give you an opportunity to visit , so even if you 're undecided about a PhD in the spring , visiting these schools ( and similarly any job interview impressions ) may help you make a decision .
I think : if I inform the professor right after I am aware of the decision , then I may hurt his/her feeling , because he/she was for me ; if I inform him/her later , then the same concern takes place and I can not justify why I procrastinated letting him/her know it . You should n't worry about this at all : Faculty members generally are n't particularly emotionally invested in these decisions . For the students involved , they feel ( and in fact are ) incredibly weighty , but faculty members are involved in dozens of cases per year , so they get some good news and some bad news and it all averages out emotionally . Even if this professor is unusually emotionally invested in the outcome , delaying reporting the result wo n't make it better . They might end up feeling unhappy with the unfairness of life or the poor decision-making skills of whoever turned down your application , but they wo n't be upset with or disappointed in you , so there 's no reason to worry or delay . I 'd recommend just letting your letter writers know when you find out , without stressing out about when or how you tell them . You could just forward the rejection e-mail with a brief note ( such as the " Many thanks for your support ; unfortunately I did not succeed . " suggested by iayork ) .
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
Yes , that 's a problem , and you will absolutely want to fix it . The problem is that it 's actually a two-stage problem to correct : First , you will need to contact the journal to fix the citation . Then , after the citation has been corrected in the article , you 'll need to submit a correction request to the various citation trackers ( such as ISI and Scopus ) . They will need to fix your citation in their database , if the article has already been entered . Note : It may or may not be possible to correct the journal -- the editors may or may not be willing to issue a correction to fix a reference . However , it may be possible to correct the reference with the citation indices , even if it 's not correct in the journal . However , the road will be tougher ; you 'll need to show that the paper that should be cited is indisputably yours .
Your question indicates that you want to use a link to your LinkedIn profile in your CV because " it 'll be far more up to date than the CV in my dissertation . " Are you suggesting that ( a ) you are going to include a CV that is not up to date , or that ( b ) your LinkedIn profile will be updated over time and that you wo n't be able to go back and edit your dissertation ? If you mean ( a ) , then no , you need to keep your CV up to date and a link to an online profile will not work . Your academic CV should always be kept as up to date as possible and it should absolutely be updated before you submit it in an application or include it in a dissertation . If you are doing your CV correctly , it will include different information than a LinkedIn profile and there is a strong expectation that every academic will have one . If you mean ( b ) and are just worried that an archival copy of your CV will be out of date , sure , add a link to LinkedIn or similar . My CV links prominently to my academic homepage on at a permanent ( i.e. , non-university ) URL , which is kept up to date , and which includes a link to the latest version of my CV at all point . I include a date in the footer of my CV although folks will have a date in your dissertation . Personally , I think this is better than relying on a for-profit company and its URLs for posterity . In terms of the QR code , I 'd skip it . These days , almost everybody who reads the dissertation will read a soft copy . A hyperlink will be much more useful . I suspect that a QR code will just end up make the document look dated at some point in the rather near future .
Do n't consider your time reviewing the field necessarily wasted . You say that you 've discovered that the research topic that you wished to pursue has already been thoroughly investigated . If this is true , then you are in the happy position of finding this out now before having invested more of your time . Now , is it indeed true that the topic has been exhausted ? Perhaps this is the basis of your supervisor 's request that you continue reading around the topic . Is there a line of investigation still remaining that you can work on ? Are you sure all the extensions to the primary findings have been looked at ? Is there a way of extending into new and unexpected territory ? On this last point , talking to many other people in the field - or closely related fields - might spark off ideas in your head . Discuss with them whether they think all aspects of the topic have been considered . Find people who are not experts in the specific topic , but are conversant with it who might offer a difference perspective . These people might draw you toward research across two fields . Can the results of the research topic you were looking to work on be extended into other , surprising areas ?
My comment turned into answer : you could call it an " expository paper " , especially if it contains some more descriptive details on how/where to use/apply these formulas . At least in my field ( mathematics ) such papers are not unheard of . These are often published in journals more aimed towards such papers with a broader audience , for example the <URL> or <URL> . These papers can be of great value as a clear and easy reference to results in a particular field ; on the other hand , they may not quite be considered research papers .
Learning is a life long activity . Graduating with a PhD is not a license to stop learning , it 's a license to ( eventually ) get paid to do research and learn more :)
As so often , this may be field-specific , so I 'm giving a CS perspective : Posters are not full papers . Often , it is totally acceptable that a poster presents work in progress , or preliminary results . While a paper adds some vague hints to separate future steps in continuing the research after presenting a finished contribution , on a poster , that can well be the other way round . Therefore : Use the opportunity to show what you have done so far and where you want to go from there on your poster . Reconsider what the gist of the poster is - you may have to give up the plan that the poster is about your results , and switch the focus of your poster to talking about your research process . That way , you can present the goal of your poster to collect comments and suggestions on how to retrieve some meaningful results in the direction you 're interested in . Like this , you are not presenting just so you can present , you are presenting because it is the best way to get concrete comments by other researchers . Of course , it depends on what exactly you have written in your poster abstract . If you explicitly said there that the poster will focus on results , the situation may be more problematic .
If you feel that A is sufficiently familiar with your work and your expertise and can comment upon those responsibly , then it is not inappropriate to ask him for a reference letter . Your perception of your relationship maybe , however , different from his . And if that is the case he will probably politely turn you down ( he is too busy , he does not feel comfortable doing it , etc. ) in which case do n't take it personally and do n't hold it against him , and certainly do n't force the matter . Having a weak letter at times is worse than not having one at all . If the request was made to a complete stranger , it is possible that person may develop a bad impression due to this request out of the blue . But since you have been in correspondence with A , the worst that can happen really is that he would say ' no ' . To put in a personal perspective : I have had an experience where an expert in the field , who has read some of my papers , and who has invited me for seminars ( and hence whom I have personally met ) , turn down a request for a reference letter because he feel he is not in a position to write me an extremely strong letter . I have had also an experience where an expert in the field agreed to write me a reference letter based on having read some of my papers and having conversed with some of my co-authors . We only had e-mail and Skype discussions after he agreed to write the letter and want to find out more about me and my interests .
As stated by Massimo Ortolano , the typesetting is followed by a final check , proofreading , by the author . In many journals ( I will not venture to say all ) the movement of an article from the editor involves additional steps . The article is scrutinized to make sure it follows the journal format down to the smallest detail . this can be done by the editor , it can also be done by the type-setter but there may also be a step where a third person , the copy editor , is involved . The copy editor will make sure there are no grammatical errors as well as checking formal issues regarding style and formatting of journal specific issues including references . The result of the type-setting procedure is that some changes will occur but they should not be serious enough to alter the meaning of things . However , this can happen and is usually the result of an over-zealous editor , copy editor or type-setter , or a combination of the three . It is therefore quite important to review the proof very carefully . It is also vital to adhere to the journal format already when the manuscript is submitted since the risk of later editing errors is reduced . What system " your " journal uses may involve all or a few of the ones mentioned above . Depending on the setup the type-setter may be more or less involved with the text but in its pure form the type-setter should only place figures and format headings , text , references etc. according to journal standards . The proof should then also only involve very minor changes ( all issue should have been resolved much earlier in the review/revisions process including adhering to journal format ) . In most journals with which I am familiar , the time allowed for proofing is very short , perhaps , one work week . this will vary between journals somewhat and I know some may have only a few days whereas other may allow somewhat longer . In the end it is mostly you who will " suffer " from lateness since your article may be published later than originally planned by the journal . My recommendation is to be accessible on a regular basis once a manuscript has gone to type-setting and expect to spend a few hours proofing it within a few days upon receiving it . At least you now usually proof a digital copy ( pdf ) and not a paper proof that has to be sent via regular mail ( although I suspect that still can be the case with some journals ) .
I have unfortunately seen these kinds of shenanigans before , so : know you are not alone , whatever cold comfort that may be . This situation has no " pro , " and has the following significant " con : " you are not getting the credit you deserve for your work . In fields where author lists are not ordered alphabetically , order is used to signify the author 's contributions to the paper , and first-author papers are much more important for things like hiring and promotions . I suggest the following steps . 1 . Talk to your advisor Maybe this is just a misunderstanding , or there are other variables in play you 're not aware of ( unlikely , but possible - see <URL> ) . Have a conversation with your advisor to see if you can clear this up . Here 's your opener : I thought that in IT , usually the student who did most of the work is the first author and the advisor is the last - this is the case in all the papers I have read . Why do you propose a different order ? 2 . Run , do n't walk This behavior is typically an indication that either your advisor is completely unaware of conventions in your field ( charitable interpretation ) , or your advisor is aware of the authorship conventions and is deliberately violating them to your disadvantage , which is extremely unethical behavior . In either case , this means that your advisor is simply unsuitable to be an advisor , to anyone , and you should find another one as soon as humanly possible . 3 . If all else fails If you are stuck with this advisor for some reason1 , be prepared for a very bumpy ride . This is not likely to be the last stunt he/she pulls . However , you can at least try to argue your case : there is some advice on the subject <URL> , although that question does not specifically address the case where the advisor is demanding first authorship for him/herself . 1This site is full of students who insist on staying with a completely unsuitable advisor , for one reason or another . I suspect <URL> .
You 've chosen a journal that looks like it is well suited to your background and topics . By itself , the length of your paper is not related to whether it is important or publishable . There are three things you can do to test whether your potential topics/papers are worth writing and submitting . First , read many articles in this journal , similar journals , and also conferences . You are n't just looking for articles on the same topic or technique as yours . Instead , you are learning about what constitutes a good research paper in your field . Based on your reading , write a detailed outline of your proposed paper ( s ) , and also an abstract . The second thing you can do is to write a version of your paper ( s ) as a " Working Paper " and then circulate them to peers or colleagues for feedback . You can post this to <URL> and post links on social media or mailing lists to get broader feedback . This approach has two advantages . You sometimes only know the value of a research paper after you finish writing it . And you 'll get the most useful feedback from people when they have a finished paper in their hands , as opposed to reacting to a concept . The third thing you can do , building on the previous , is to submit a paper or two ( each revised based on earlier feedback ) to a journal or conference , and then learn from reviewer comments if they reject you .
end question
start question
I need certain courses not covered in my undergraduate studies , can I take them at another institution ?
I would still suggest you contact the admission director ( one more time ) ! He is the one with the " right " and " only " answer you need to follow . All what we can do is share relevant experiences that may or may not be along the lines of your school 's standard/system . Having said that , If I 'm not mistaken , I think you can take the courses in other schools ( as long as they are accredited and/or sister schools + cover a similar syllabus as the one your school has ) . As for a database , try to look through your school 's graduate handbook or admission website .
Yes , it is . English is a lingua franca , but that does n't mean that all scholarly literature must be in English . Make sure your paper is in a institutional or disciplinary repository , if you like the idea of your paper to be open access . Translate it , as Davidmh suggests , to make it even more available . Regarding indexing in Google Scholar , that depends by the site you archive your paper into . You can make <URL> , but in my experience even if you suggest resources to GS you can not be sure you 'll be .
The question is : is this possible ? If you have signed over the copyright of your paper to this journal , or given them an irrevocable license to distribute , then they do n't have to take down the paper just because you have asked them . In fact , if they are a reputable journal and the paper has already been published , they should n't just take down the paper without a very good reason , because that would distort the scientific record . and what is consequences for submitting the same manuscript to another journal ? Submitting a manuscript to a journal that is already published in another journal is called " duplicate publication " , and it is considered a kind of research misconduct . Consequences can include <URL> , being banned from submitting papers to that journal for some period of time , or <URL> for some period of time .
There are a number of reasons why a department would want to teach their own version of a class , even if it 's very similar to a course taught by another department : They think they can do it better . Imagine if most graduate students in your Department A end up taking a class in Department B. Department B views this as something of an imposition , not really interesting , not taken by many of their students , etc. so treats it as a dumping ground for new or poor teachers . Department A might decide to teach their own version to the level they think it warrants . Different audiences . What one needs to know may differ by department in terms of sophistication or focus . For example , very few students in departments who use statistical methods might need to know the nuances behind how variance is calculated , or be equipped with the background to develop their own estimator , whereas a student in a statistics department might very well need to . Splitting these courses allows for fine-tuning of content and pre-requisites ( do you need to know Linear Alegbra ? ) . Field specific focuses . Epidemiology , as a field , is by and large uninterested in prediction for its own sake , and so really does n't do much with machine learning ( see <URL> ) . Other fields are keenly interested in exactly those methods . So rather than try to teach a course that 's a little unsatisfactory to everyone , why not split them ? Similarly , while an Applied Math department could very well teach a class on " Mathematical Modeling " , the assumptions and methods needed in Physics vs. Chemistry vs. Ecology vs. Epidemiology vs. Engineering are all different enough that those departments might be well served by bringing their class in house , if for no other reason than to make sure most of the examples are relevant . Geography . As @tomasz points out , the " logical " department for a course to be held in might be quite far from a department , leading to students not taking a class , not knowing about it entirely , or complicating their schedule . For example , a statistics or math department might be on the " main " Liberal Arts campus of a university , while many of the potentially interested students may be located on a specialized Health Sciences campus a considerable distance away ( at the University of Iowa , for example , they would be across the Iowa River from one another ) .
Is it a common practice to submit an expression of interest although I will only be available 1.5 years from now ? I would n't say it is " common practice " , simply because it seems relatively pointless . While starting dates for academic jobs are usually flexible , 1.5 years of delay for a postdoc seems like a stretch . Many postdocs are hired on specific projects , and the project in question would be half-over before you even begin . Even for postdocs paid by some sort of fellowship , the start date usually is n't that flexible . Of course this does not stop you from asking , but I would not get my hopes up too high .
Yes , it is entirely appropriate , especially if you come to them in person and just knock on their office door when they 're around and ask if they can spare 5 minutes to answer a question or two . If you are nice , polite , curious and fun to talk to ( and you sound like all of those things to me ) they may easily end up talking to you for an hour . Busy or not , professors are people and love to procrastinate just like anyone else . :-) Email is a lot less likely to work , but again , I do n't see it as inappropriate , simply less effective . And do n't overthink it . Knocking on someone 's ( even a stranger 's ) office door is not the same as hugging them , and not every decision in life should be agonized over and analyzed in minute detail . Just try it , the worst that can happen is ... nothing .
Reading your background , it seems that everything about the work was correct except for a mistake in translating the algorithm from code to pseudocode . Moreover , you 've done your best at correcting the mistake . Mistakes happen in science , and especially when it comes to the dread pseudocode ( personally , that 's why I always include actual executable code whenever I can ) . From what you 've presented , I think you have every reason to be proud of this work and none to be ashamed . Talk about the work in your applications . Talk about the paper . Talk about the experience in getting it corrected . Anybody who you 'd actually want to work for will see all of these as strengths and not weaknesses .
Based on what I 've heard and seen , most schools fall into the second pattern , with the first and third happening much less frequently . However , I 've known all three possibilities to occur . Ultimately , there is no " most likely " or " least likely " option , as it really depends on the rules for tenure promotions at the individual school at which the applicant is being hired .
I think the best answer to this question has already been given as a comment : You should ask your advisor . The fact that you are asking this question suggests that you and your advisor have n't discussed in detail what your thesis should consist of . It 's important to have this conversation , even aside from the particular question you are asking here . ( You do n't want to risk discovering much later that you and your advisor had different visions for what the thesis should be like . ) This is a good answer to so many questions on this site ( I have started to think that there should be an " Ask your advisor ! " closure option ) , but it seems especially true here . From the OP 's comment I can see that the master 's thesis is being done in mathematics . The expectations and requirements for a master 's thesis in mathematics are so highly variable across institutions and countries that I can think of almost nothing ( other than " Ask your advisor ! " ) which would be guaranteed to be universally applicable . In mathematics programs in the US , it is especially unclear what work constitutes a master 's thesis , especially in pure mathematics . Unlike the situation in many other countries , there are relatively few full-time master 's students in American universities , even compared to the number of master 's degrees awarded : in my experience , more master 's degrees go to talented , ambitious undergraduates who get them alongside their bachelor 's degrees , or to PhD students who have decided to drop out of the program and get a consolation degree . In my case I got a master 's degree along with my bachelor 's degree at the University of Chicago , and for such a top university you might be surprised to hear how minimal the requirements were : I had to complete all nine trimester courses that first year graduate ( i.e. , PhD ) students take ( I did so over two years ) and pass a pro forma foreign language exam . [ In particular I did not write a master 's thesis . ] When I went on to my PhD studies ( at Harvard ) I found that I was about as well prepared as most of the other students . I do n't recall that my having a master 's degree came up once during my five years in a PhD program ... with the possible exception that some students would , a year or two into their program , fill out paperwork and pay a small fee to get a master 's degree , whereas I already had one of those so chose to keep my money . Having been heavily involved with the graduate ( mostly PhD ) program at the University of Georgia in recent years , I can say that here a master 's thesis is whatever the advisor and student agree that it is , subject to the approval of two other committee members . Writing a thesis is one route ; there is another route involving more coursework and some exams . Among master 's thesis advisors I 've talked to , the sense is that the student should take the thesis as an opportunity to engage with some piece of mathematics at a deeper level than they have done before , to the extent that they have mastered it and can show this mastery with an original ( or at least , independent ) exposition . This description seems rather at odds with the one given in another answer to this question : NO . Undergrads may get away with using one ( or a few ) papers to synthesize the essence into their own viewpoint , but at the post-grad level you should be reading for width and depth , which means using every seminal work in your field as well as exploring the newer papers on the topic . This is probably a correct description of some academic fields , but not for mathematics . Very few mathematics undergraduates are reading " real " math papers at all . The task of reading , understanding and writing about even one " real " math paper may in fact be sufficient for a master 's thesis . There are even certain papers out there for which rewriting them so as to contain the level of detail and completeness that would satisfy a master 's thesis committee would be a real service to the mathematical community . I think that most PhD students in mathematics do not use every seminal work in [ their ] field : I did n't , for instance . I am not saying that just any old thing will suffice for a master 's thesis in mathematics : I am saying that the global requirements are very few , so it becomes more important to talk to your advisor . I have so far supervised one master 's thesis . My student carefully read and wrote about two papers concerning geometry of numbers and Legendre 's Equation ax ^ 2 + by ^ 2 + cz ^ 2 = 0 . She then tried to extend the techniques of the second paper to diagonal quadratic equations in n \ geq 4 variables . Much of this was easy , but the key was the existence of a " magic sublattice " defined in the three-dimensional case by the necessary congruence conditions for Legendre 's Equation to have a solution . After much trouble ( and some help from me ) , she was eventually able to prove that for more than three variables such a magic sublattice did not exist . She wrote up a thesis which contained exp
There are several reasons in the US . Most faculty are paid for 9 months of the year not 12 . They may choose to spread out their pay into 12 payments a year , but their base salary is for 9 months . Grant funding is one way to supplement their pay up to a full 12 months . Unfortunately , the National Science Foundation , which funds a lot of academic research in the US , only allows a maximum of 2 months to come from NSF , so professors must diversify somehow as well . Additionally , some faculty may choose to buy out some of their required teaching . Many departments will allow you to teach less if you can bring in even more of your salary . Sometimes this is done with grant funding , but I think more often it is done using endowed chairs .
First I would check if the school has a formal procedure for auditing . For example , my school wants auditors to pay as if they were attending the class , and they also have insurance concerns if , e.g. , a student is hurt in a chem lab and it turns out that they were n't enrolled . You can get this info from the school 's web site or catalog . If that 's not an issue , then I would just send a brief email and ask permission . There are unlikely to be any objections , but it would be polite to ask . Some conceivable problems : There might be a shortage of seating . In certain subjects ( e.g. , languages ) or in classes using certain teaching methods , it might be expected that students will participate actively . The quality of the discussion or activities might be worse if there is an auditor who is n't taking the course seriously . The professor might want to talk to you for your benefit to see if you have enough of a background to get anything out of the class . Personally it does n't bother me if an auditor 's attendance is irregular .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
I would look at past editions of the conference proceedings to see what style they were ultimately formatted in . Double-column ( like IEEE ) is typically denser than a single-column , so by picking a two-column format , you may be giving yourself some extra room that other submitters wo n't have . But you may lose this advantage if your paper is accepted and the format was intended to be single column , since you may have to cut something like 20 % out of the content if you are already pushing the limits .
The true anonymity of " anonymous evaluations " is a key issue ( in academia and also in the workplace ) . If you say an evaluation is anonymous , can you later take them to task for something they wrote that you regard as problematic ? This happened at my university a few years back . Student course evaluations are done electronically now , and they are said to be anonymous . However , one student " contributed " an anonymous evaluation which criticized their instructor for their sexual orientation . The university IT staff got involved , did in fact trace the evaluation back to the student , and the student was prosecuted for it . In particular , IIRC their name was made public ( I read about this in the university paper ! ) and they may have had to write a letter of apology . This is a good problem for an ethics class : should the university have done this ? After reflecting about it for a while , my feeling is that the university did behave unethically : not by tracking down a comment that violates rules of university conduct ( not to mention the rules and conventions of civilized society about treatment of minority ) , but by not being open with the students that the anonymity in the evaluations was meant as a policy decision , not a factual description of the way the technology is implemented . They could have designed the system so that university IT staff would have no way -- or at least , no standard , built-in way -- of tracking it back to its origin . Anyway : yes , it is probably technically possible that the evaluation can be traced back to you . The moral of the above story is that unless you specifically know and trust the mechanisms that prevent that , you should regard the anonymity as being at the level of policy -- i.e. , you are honorbound not to act on the knowledge of the identity -- rather than a true lack of knowledge of the writer 's identity . As for the rest , you ask : Do you think I will lose my job over it ? Maybe another dumb question , but I 'm stressing right now . That does n't sound like a dumb question for you . However , in my opinion it 's " a dumb question " ( rather , an unfruitful one ) to ask us . We do n't know : Who you are , and what are the conditions of your employment . Where you work , and who your colleagues are . What you wrote . Without this information , our best guess at the answer is nowhere near as good as yours . I understand that because of your closeness to the situation and reasonable anxiety , it may be hard for you to view objectively . I suggest that you confide in someone you can trust and who is closer to the situation . @Trevor Wilson asked : Was it this case : nytimes.com/2008/01/20/magazine/20wwln-ethicist-t.html ? If so , it sounds like the evaluation was handwritten . Nice find ! I checked it out a bit , and ... I think it is likely that this is the same case , and that it was long enough ago ( longer than I thought ) that I am not quite remembering the particulars . It is also interesting that this made " Ask an Ethicist " ... and the Ethicist said very much what I said above . Adding to the irony , I suppose I am now criticizing my university a bit by weighing in on this . I think they can take it .
For fixing , I think the advice in the linked question is the way to go : contact the publisher and ask them to correct it . This is what errata are for , and it 's perfectly normal . I think the harder question is what to do about the future . On the one hand , the non-distinguishability of I and l are just going to keep causing problems ( as can be seen from this very sentence ! ) and you rarely have control of fonts . On the other hand , it 's your personal identity at stake . Do you really want to change your name for the sake of typography ? This is a problem that I see faced by a large number of researchers who do n't have names that perfectly transliterate into English . One of my French colleagues , for example , is very insistent on getting the accents correct on his name , while others just ignore it and let things fall to the lowest ( anglicized ) denominator . You 're going to need to make a decision based on your personal relationship with your identity . If it 's important to you , stick to your proper name and just know that you 're going to need to be proactive in checking and correcting in every paper you deal with . Fortunately , there 's usually a proof stage for just this type of issue . If you 'd rather not bother , then by all means embrace the simple lower-case solution . One way or another , though , you should settle on a decision by somewhere in the middle of graduate school . Do n't worry too much about some confusion in the early papers : if you make a career of research , the early papers will fade behind your later work ; if you do n't , it wo n't matter .
No , you should probably not contact the Associate Editor . First off , referees do not generally make decisions about accepting or rejecting a paper . Referees make recommendations to associate editors and editors , and they , in turn , make decisions . Thus , the associate editor who was cc ' ed on the email to you is probably the decision-maker who read the reports from the referees and decided to turn down the paper . This person also knows who the referees were , and is in a situation where this input can be appropriately scaled by the referees review history , level of experience , etc. . For what its worth , I consider it bad form when refereeing to make my recommendation known to the author . I give an honest assessment , describe my issues , and then make my recs to the editors in the appropriate fields . ( I also make it my personal policy for manuscripts , at least , to never say anything that I would n't say to the authors face ) There may be check boxes in the reviews that you are n't privy to . Even your reviewer who seemed to recommend acceptance may not have been all that enthusiastic about it , or may not have thought the paper to be very important . You should make use of the feedback you got , which suggested that there was too much similarity with another paper of yours . You should make the paper clearer as to what the new findings are . Take a step back and determine if , given the magnitude of this extension , is this worthy of a full paper , or perhaps the field would be better served by some sort of short report . Then pick the appropriate venue for publication . There are some legitimate cases where you might drop the editor a note . Certainly , if something " very wrong " happened during the review process , but that does n't seem to be the case here . My experience is that this is rare , and most reviews are fine . Your most productive action at this point would be to discuss the reviews with a mentor .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
In my opinion it is definitely worth considering quitting an undergraduate project that you have tried and do n't like in favor of doing more reading that you do like . Indeed you should talk to your advisor about it . To be slightly more specific : Pros : 1 . If I quit , I will be reading some graduate texts . 2 . I will be reading something I like . Reading graduate texts is a great thing for a would-be math graduate student to do , especially if you really like them . If you can acquire graduate level knowledge mostly independent as an undergraduate , that will be strongly beneficial in your graduate applications . Cons : 1 . I will lose out on valuable research experience . I am concerned that the lack of it will render my applications to graduate schools in the US rather ordinary . 2 . I have an excellent relationship with my guide.I am a little concerned she might be disappointed with the switch . ( I ca n't work under someone else for various reasons . ) Doing some undergraduate research is not what will make an application to a US graduate school stand out . A lot of students have done this , and it is not necessarily very impressive . If you do research that is sufficiently good and sufficiently independently done then that will grab people 's attention but ( i ) that is very rare and ( ii ) most undergraduates who are in a position to do that had excellent applications anyway . In your case , it sounds like your research is not going anywhere exceptional . ( But you could be wrong , and this is worth talking to your advisor about . ) You 're right that your advisor might be disappointed . When a student strays from the path that you 've laid out for them , it is usually a bit disappointing at first ... but it happens frequently , and most advisors are used to it . The real question is if it 's disappointing enough to have a real negative effect on you ( or your advisor , but I am less worried about that ) , and the way to find out is to ask . It is much better to ask than to just stick with something that you do n't like , I think .
Disclaimer : This is somewhat field-dependent . I 'm answering based on what I believe to be the current situation in computer science / related fields . 1 ) Can you claim authorship given the way things have evolved ? Probably not . 2 ) Would it have been a good idea for him to find a way to include you in the research collaboration so that you could get something out of your work ? Yes . The area of academia in which I work ( * ) is structured so as to value ideas over implementation . In practice , that means that it 's not uncommon for people who write large amounts of code for a project to get little credit for it , which seems inherently unjust . The way sensible people usually handle this is to make sure that people who do a lot of implementation work are given an opportunity to contribute scientifically over and above that - that allows them to justify their authorship in scientific terms , regardless of the fact that they also made significant non-scientific contributions to the overall project . It 's certainly possible to take advantage of implementers by not doing this , but people who do that tend to find themselves doing the implementation work themselves . Bottom line : He should have had the common sense to include you in the scientific collaboration , and if he did n't have that common sense then his supervisor should have suggested it . As an aside , I would view the situation somewhat differently if you already had a publication as a result of your work . In that case , you 've already got the credit for working on the framework , and there 's less of a moral obligation to include you in the new collaboration : instead , they can simply cite you . I 'm certainly not of the view that writing a framework entitles you to be involved in every paper that is ever built on top of that framework - indeed , I 've written frameworks that other people have continued to use for later research , and I would n't expect to be involved with the papers in question . ( * ) As pointed out in the comments , this may not be the case in other fields .
First of all , consult a lawyer before doing anything . If you were to leave in the middle of the course , that will cause havoc , that they wo n't probably want . Since they are not paying you for the work , you are under no contractual obligation to fulfil anything ( but consult the lawyer ) , and can leave without giving them notice . Now , you may find unethical to leave your students hanging like this , but the mere threat that you are willing to do it , may get some wheels spinning to give you a decent offer . Another option to consider is whatever anti-slavery laws apply in your jurisdiction , since you are working for free ; and anti fraud , because you are working without a contract . Furthermore , since you do n't have a contract , you are not covered by the insurance , and if anything were to happen during your lecture , there is trouble . Think who would have to pay for in case , for example , a projector caught fire and ruined the classroom . If your oral agreement is considered a contract , you ca n't do this ; but then they would be acknowledging they have to abide by these rules .
end question
start question
As a beginning graduate student , can you do without conferences in theoretical CS ?
Conferences are very important in CS . Journals are also important , but they tend to accept more mature work , and therefore might be especially hard to publish into as a beginning graduate student ( which , in your terms , seems to refer to someone who has n't finished his/her master thesis yet ) . Nothing is impossible , of course , but you have to be careful not to end up with no publications after 4 years , just because you were aiming too high . In addition , some journals are very slow to respond , so you might spend half a year or even more waiting for a decision . In the mean time , you can not send this work anywhere else . You should ask students there how the official policy is , it might just be that they do n't want to fund you a trip to a small workshop in Hawaii , but the question could be different if you were to get a paper at POPL . You should also consider that there are good conferences coming to Asia , and many conferences offer financial support to students ( including reducing the registration fee , sometimes even helping with transport/accommodation ) . Finally , if you 're writing your paper with someone else , such as your advisor , this person might be able to travel to the conference and present the paper ( which would be a shame for you not to attend , but it still counts as a publication in your CV ) . EDIT Some clarification : technically speaking , the only important thing is to produce good research , and to write good paper . What you plan to do after your PhD also matters , but if you 'd like to stay in Academia , you will need at some point to get a job , and you will be judged on your papers ( on other aspects too , but papers are very important ) . Now , to answer your question : yes , you could get a job with only journal publications , as long as they are good . Is that the best strategy ? Probably not . Conferences are very important because they allow you to meet other people , to be exposed to state-of-the-art research , to confront your ideas with the community , to get published within a relatively short time period , to receive more frequent feedback , to construct your research project in a more incremental way ( present your idea at some workshop , work on a good conference paper , present the extended version to a journal ) . If I can give you one example , I 've presented some of my work at a workshop with no proceedings ( so it did n't count as a publication ) , and I met there someone who accepted to be one of my external PhD examiners .
If you 're asking about graduate school in the US , probably the single most significant thing you can do is to take the <URL> ( not the math section of the general test ! ) , and score well on it . This test covers a broad spectrum of material that is taught in a typical undergraduate math curriculum , and so if you get a good score , it strongly supports your claim that you have the level of mathematics knowledge required to enter grad school . Without that key piece of evidence ( i.e. a good GRE subject score ) , graduate admissions committees are likely to look at your statement that you have the knowledge to take graduate courses , contrast it with your lack of an undergraduate degree , and conclude that you 're full of hot air , so to speak . Now , of course there is more that has to be done to actually get yourself admitted . In my own field of theoretical physics , even a 990 ( the top score ) on the GRE is n't enough to get you into a good grad school by itself . I would imagine the same is true for the top schools in math , though perhaps at a less competitive school , it might be . But I think to be safe , you should assume that you 'll have to present some other sort of evidence of accomplishment that could be viewed as equivalent to an undergraduate transcript . You 'll also need recommendation letters and various sorts of essays and forms . But a lot of that can vary from school to school , and is more likely to be negotiable if you talk to someone in the department . The GRE subject score is the one thing you really need to get your foot in the door , so to speak .
How long does it usually take to publish a first research paper ? That question depends on a lot of factors . Here are a few of them : What is the significance of your research ? How much of your research is unique , novel , and relevant ? Will other computer scientists be interested in your findings ? How well can you write ? How well can you organize your paper ? Where do you intend to publish ? Some conferences and publications are more competitive than others . ( Put another way , some have a lower acceptance rate than others . ) Much of that depends on who sponsors the conference or publication . First , you have to do the research ( this is not trivial ) . Significant findings need to come from that research ( this does n't always happen ) . You have to write that in a way that will appeal to the community ( the community can be rather fickle sometimes ) . Lastly , you have to find some venue where the work can be presented ( it 's not always easy to find a good match ) . If a paper gets rejected , it could be because : The research does n't report anything new or significant The research does n't report anything of interest to the community The paper is poorly written The paper does n't cite other related research , leading to a credibility problem There simply was n't room for your paper in the publication , or it was n't a good match for that venue Getting back to your original question , you might be able to publish in a year , if everything goes very smoothly . However , that 's a huge " IF . " Even established researchers can spend years getting ready for a publication , only to see it be rejected by a committee . Publication can be a long and arduous process , with plenty of opportunities for obstacles , setbacks , and dead ends . It can be very hard to estimate a timetable , particularly for a first-timer going from start to finish . Your best bet might be to see what 's going on at your university , and see if you can get involved with an established , ohgoing research effort . Before you do that , it might be worth doing a self-evaluation first , so that you 're prepared to tell a faculty member what you can offer the research team . For example , perhaps you 're a crack programmer , and a research project at your institution needs some software written , in order to complete an experiment or simulation . That might be a more realistic way to get started as a researcher .
I think it depends in large part on what the research is . Some fields lend themselves more readily to real-life application , while others like , say , theoretical physics , are a long way from being used by industry . It also depends on the researcher . I am a firm believer in the " <URL> " principle ( disclosure : the man who wrote that is my advisor ) . The premise of the Last Research Mile is that a big part of doing research is taking it all the way through to implementation . Doing the early research provides a good start , but lots of important lessons , including research lessons , are learned as the idea is carried through to execution . I 'm studying in an Information Systems program , and so my research is in business , computers , and people . While it would be easy to do the basic research and move on to another topic , I think it is important to continue to push and test the idea even in its implementation phases . As a result of following the Last Research Mile principle , my advisor has created at least one company that sells the product of decades of his research . Many lessons were learned , and many publications resulted because of those lessons throughout the whole process .
Most postdoc offers come with the condition that the candidate will have a PhD by the time that they start the job . In many cases showing the PhD is part of the initial paperwork . If you want to start a postdoc with a document saying that all requirements have been met and the degree will be formally conferred at such and such a date , I think the only way to proceed is to ask the institution whether this will be acceptable . I do n't think you can predict the answer by looking through the nuances of the job ad . I was once asked by someone who had accepted a postdoc offer at my university ( UGA ) whether or not she could start the position with such a document . She came from an institution that only formally conferred degrees once a year . From my perspective , the key point is that I had no idea what the answer was , but I brought it up with my colleagues and the department head , it went further up in the university , and the answer came back : OK , so long as all requirements have been met . ( In the end the candidate decided to push harder and actually get the degree awarded in the summer before arrival . ) I have also seen a postdoc -- at a very prestigious American university -- started by someone who had not written her thesis by the time of arrival . The next semester she accepted a second , semester-long postdoctoral position and only around the end of the spring semester did I learn that she was still writing up her thesis . ( It worked out fine for her , and today she is a well-known strong person in the field . ) The idea of starting a postdoc before completing your thesis is one of those things that would simply never have occurred to me , but apparently it happens . As with most things , having a very influential advisor could n't hurt . ( My understanding is that in the humanities , it is relatively common for someone to start a tenure-track job without a PhD . They are then given a certain amount of time to complete their PhD while simultaneously navigating all the difficulties of their new job . This practice -- which is almost begging for trouble , in my opinion , and most of the stories I have heard that start this way end badly -- is all but unheard of in mathematics , because there is usually a postdoc done in between . You should probably have a PhD by the time you finish your postdoc ! ) Moral : you really need to ask . Let me end with a remark which leans towards the obvious : nothing is for sure until it happens , but if you have some specific reason to doubt that you 'll have a PhD by the start time of a postdoc , you should bring that up ASAP and ideally before you accept the position in the first place . In the current job market , there is no lack of qualified candidates with PhD in hand .
U.S. Immigration Law : While doing a summer internship would be seen as compatible with still being a full-time student because of the extended American summer , if you did the 6-month internship you may have difficulty arguing that you are still a full-time , enrolled student . You need to ask your university foreign student 's office for advice as to how you can retain your F-1 status .1 French Immigration Law : You need to clarify with the French company that you will have a valid visa status while in the EU . University Policy : As with US immigration law , you need to make sure that your status in the program is not interrupted by the internship . 1 . Note that CPT ( Curricular Practical Training ) does not apply as you are not applying to work within the USA . The main concern is that your absence for 6-months is not seen as a disruption of your studies from the perspective of maintaining your F1 visa . Your international students office should be able to advise how to maintain your student status . The bonus is that you should be able to use your OPT year in its full since you did not take a CPT .
Reviewing grant proposals as a student is tricky , at least in some fields . The NSF is highly unlikely to ask a grad student to review proposals ( it might theoretically be possible for a brilliant student who is almost done with their Ph.D. , but I 've never heard of it happening ) . Furthermore , faculty are not allowed to show proposals they have been asked to review to their students ( it may sometimes happen , but it 's breaking explicit rules regarding confidentiality ) . Overall , in pure math grad students basically never review grant proposals . I ca n't speak for other fields , but I 'm skeptical that grad students ever play a major role in reviewing proposals . Instead , I 'd recommend asking your advisor to see the other side of the process . They could share their own proposals , and perhaps even reviews of those proposals or drafts of upcoming proposals . They could also ask collaborators whether they had any proposals they would be willing to share . This is n't quite the same as reviewing proposals yourself , but it could still give you valuable experience with how grant applications work .
I personally rate strong math skills as a major plus when it comes to looking at applicants . This is not superior to having actual research experience , but it definitely helps an application . For many areas of TCS , a strong math background can be more valuable than a strong CS background that is weak on TCS . But students with a strong math background AND a weaker TCS background tend to need a little reprogramming when it comes to asking questions :) - they are good at answering them though .
There are students with math major ( and other major ) go to physics graduate school , but I think all of them have taken physics courses . The first question you should ask yourself is that why you are interested in theoretical physics . If you were the admission committee and see an applicant said that they are interested in physics but taken no physics courses , what do you think ? You must explain it in somewhere in your personal statement . The first thing you should do is to take physics courses and get good grade on all of them . Also , you should try taking few graduate courses . There are no need to take courses on all topics , you should only have strong interest in few topics such as QM , EM , SM , QFT and string theory . Some of them are very mathematical ( that good for you ) . Doing so can demonstrate your interest in physics . Second , you might try to apply for master program in physics . It is easier to get in and after 1 or 2 years you can apply for PhD in physics to continue your study . One more options is to apply for math department , in particular , you should look for applied math . There are usually few professors studying mathematical physics . It is particular true for some countries that the theoretical physicists stay in the math department and experimental physicists stay in physics department . Assuming you have good background in mathematics , it should be the easiest option for you to get in those school and start studying theoretical physics .
It depends a lot on the event ( some gatherings are more formal than others ) and on your status ( win a Nobel prize , and you can wear anything you damn well want ) , but in general , you 're not really expected to wear anything fancier to an academic conference than you would for a normal day at work or in class . In practice , most people do tend to dress up a little bit , just to look their best , but still , even if you just wear your normal clean everyday clothes , you 're not going to embarrass yourself ( any more than you usually do , at least ) . As the other answers note , " smart casual " is the usual style here . Nothing says you ca n't wear a suit if you want to ; I see people do that all the time in conferences . Then again , some of those people also wear a suit to work every day , so ... Still , if you 're in doubt , why not ask your advisor ( or someone else in your group who 's been to similar events before ) ? That 's part of their job : to teach you the basics of academic work , which certainly includes presenting your work at a conference .
Complementing the other answers , either in addition to , or apart from , asking for the codes and running them yourself , I do n't think it is a bad idea to explicitly ask the authors , something like this : The standard algorithms for executing ( bla bla bla ) , e.g. as followed in the works of Refs . [ 1-3 ] ( feed these in ) , are suggestive of a standard accuracy in typical algorithms . The current work appears to have bettered the same , which is a strong point in favor of publication . However , the authors should include a comment in the manuscript , mentioning what changes have they implemented to the typical algorithms so highly prevalent , which leads to this enhanced accuracy . My jargon may have to be twisted a bit here , but I think I convey the point . This being a query in the referee report , the authors shall be obligated to feed in the details , and if there is some manipulation involved , it may end up being exposed . Hope that helps :)
People do things for a variety of reasons . Even writing a paper for smaller workshops has some benefits for everyone ( from a PHD student to a professor ) Good reason for the affiliation to cover expenses for the suggested trip . Usually CS workshops are co-located with important conferences and even a workshop paper may cover your expenses ( not every time if you continuously abuse the system ) to actually watch the entire conference . Workshops have limited attendance but may still be organized by reputable professors / scientists close to your area of interest . So , they are very good for networking . In a major conference , it is easier to get " lost " inside the many participants . Practise makes better . If you write 5 papers ( even when some of them were for a workshop ) writing your 6th paper is going to be easier , instead of trying to write your " seminal " paper . Reviewers have the " strange " habit of sometimes rejecting your paper . In this case , sending your paper to a smaller workshop ( after rejection in 1-2 major conferences ) where it gets accepted , lessens the sense of rejection and still " patents " your results on which you can expand later . Workshops sometimes have a " best paper award " which may even lead to journal publication , when the same paper might not had a chance in a bigger conference . In workshops the competition is smaller ( usually 10-15 accepted papers ) , so you have something like 5-8 % chance for something like that . Sometimes when you work on a specific project you might discover something that although is not good enough for a major conference or later expansion , is still a compact solid idea that may help others . So , a good workshop paper may disseminate this idea to a larger audience . Unfortunately , although quality should beat quantity , this is not the usual case . In some research projects , grants applications it is better to state that " A is the author of more than 50 scientific papers with an h-index of ... " than " B is the author of 2 papers " . Same when you look at the Google Scholar / DBLP record of an author . It is better to see 50 papers ( which among them are 10 really seminal papers ) instead of just 10 perfect papers that usually leave a gap in the author 's bibliography ( blank years ) . In this sense , even workshop papers serve their purpose if you treat them as professionally as the rest of your papers ( they are well written and still scientifically solid and correct ) .
Is this normal or is this something that I should be credited for ? No , it is not normal practice ; yes , you should be credited whenever a result from a paper for which you are a co-author is mentioned . The only exception I can think of is if the paper has several authors and is cited in the style " [ first author ] et al. ( 2014 ) showed that ... " . Even then , one would typically expect the presentation to include a full citation at the end that explicitly mentions your name as a coauthor . Is it typical for someone to contact you before using your research in a presentation ? They do not need to contact you before mentioning your research in the presentation ( and it is not typical for anyone to do such a thing ) , as long as two conditions hold : a. the research that they are going to mention has been published or is otherwise publicly available , and b. they credit you by name in their presentation as I stated above . Is it worth contacting the company about this ? That depends . What are you hoping to achieve by contacting the company ? It seems very difficult to judge from the details you provide whether this was some kind of egregious , intentional misrepresentation by the person in the video , or whether it was an accidental omission due to sloppiness or perhaps not copying correctly the list of authors . If it was the latter , although it is still a bit annoying I would n't bother complaining - at most I would send a friendly note to the presenter to politely call their attention to the fact that I am also a coauthor of the paper they cited , so that they can correct the error the next time they use this presentation . If it was the former and there is a clear intent to deceive or other unethical aspect , I may seriously consider contacting the company to complain .
I think what you know and how strong your recommendation letters are the most important factors during the application process . Usually people need to take several foundamental courses to have a solid background before conducting research in math . And you also need to have some undergraduate research experience . So a degree in math is the most efficient way to get this . But it can also be achieved even though you do n't have a degree in math . My undergraduate degree is business administration but I have taken around 20 math courses including 10 analysis courses and several algebra and geometry courses during my undergraduate study . Currently I am going to start a research master program in pde and applied analysis and I hope I can do research in math in the future . So yes , you can . But you need to make extra effort to fill up the gaps .
Of course I 'm not a lawyer , but I 'd distinguish between two thresholds : Before the paper can be published , you need to grant legal permission via a license or copyright transfer . If you have n't done that yet , then the publisher ca n't force you to let them publish the paper . That gives a narrow window in which you could still block publication after the paper is accepted ( but whether you could ethically do so depends on your reason for objecting ) . Once the published version has appeared ( even just on the publisher 's website ) , there 's nothing you can do without a powerful reason . At that point , you would be retracting a published paper , which is a far more serious act . In between these thresholds , I do n't know what would happen . I 'd guess that if you asked the publisher not to publish a paper you had already signed a copyright transfer for , then they would probably agree . After all , publishing a paper against the author 's wishes could look bad , even if they were legally entitled to do so . However , if you did n't have a very good reason ( such as a major error in the paper ) , then the publisher would be rather unhappy . I would n't be surprised if they asked you to cover any copyediting or typesetting costs , and this sort of unprofessional behavior would be terrible for your reputation . Further , who has the final say on copy edits and type setting ? In principle this depends on the publishing agreement . In practice , the ones I 've seen usually give the publisher final say , but the publisher usually defers to the author about anything intellectually substantive during the proofreading stage . ( On the other hand , the author gets more or less no input into matters of style such as font choice , British vs. American spelling , etc. )
I was recently accepted to a MS program that is different from my undergrad and graduate training . In my personal statement I tried to relate my experience to the field I was pursuing . I had field research experience in public health , but I was applying for a MS in biology . I still used my research experience , but I focused on the general research skills that I developed , things that would be useful in the lab . I mentioned things that are universal to all research . I think if you convey passion and direction for the new field , you 'll be alright . It can be an advantage too . Think of ways you can incorporate your previous field if possible . If not , show them your maturity and passion . It seems like admissions committees can tell who is going through the motions and who is genuine . Make your voice heard .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all have thriving basic research labs that regularly hire PhDs in theoretical computer science , and whose members regularly publish in theoretical computer science conferences and journals . Yes , research at those labs is colored by the needs of their parent companies , but not as much as you might think . All four companies ( and several others ) have thriving internship programs . As with any other research job , your best bet in finding opportunities is to talk personally with people at the labs . Go to FOCS/STOC/SODA , sit at the same lunch table as David Johnson or Muthu or Ken Clarkson or Yuval Peres , and just talk to them . ( It obviously helps if you have some research results that they care about . ) Ask your advisor to introduce you if you do n't feel comfortable just introducing yourself . ( I 'm about to get some angry emails from David , Muthu , Ken , and Yuval , are n't I ? )
Simple ideas : Seminar where a professor gives a talk on his/her current research . Provide beer . Invite an alum from one of the companies you 're talking about to give a talk on something new from the company . Provide beer . Simple cook-out , which includes beer ( even better if this is a recurring event , monthly , once a semester , etc. ) . More involved ideas : Mini-poster conference , where a quorum of students have posters about their current research . Alum can act as judges , if you want to award prizes . Provide beer . Invite a famous alumus to give a talk . This always involves more work than you 're expecting , but can have big pay-offs . Might necessitate actual cocktails ( and possibly pay for the speaker , but if you play it right you should find an alumnus willing to do it for free ) . Field-trip to a local engineering firm that may have something interesting to look at ( or a tour ) . Drinks at a local bar afterward .
Endorsement is not a service offered by a college , like academic advisement or career placement . Endorsement is an indication that the endorser knows you and believes you are not a crank , or has read your paper and believes it is a reasonably appropriate paper . It 's not like just by having a connection to the college , you could automatically be eligible for an endorsement from a professor there . A program through which high school students can earn college credit does not necessarily give its students increased access to mathematics faculty . So this " connection " may or may not be of use to you in gaining an endorsement . Instead , I recommend reading <URL> and <URL> for suggestions on what to do with your paper , should you choose to write one . The latter explains how to find names of people who are eligible to endorse in a given area . ( There may or may not be anyone in the college you are connected to who is eligible in your area . )
It can not be a research paper without a project . Research papers are for describing the results of the projects . Even review articles represent projects to collect the information about the current status in the particular branch of the science . Once you are a co-author , you have been involved into that project . Co-authorship always assumes significant enough involvement . Hope this answers your question .
end question
start question
Is it plagiarism to copy formulations from others ?
Sentence patterns are not intellectual property ; otherwise , every author who wrote " To X or not to X " would be plagiarizing Shakespeare . ( They are " riffing " off of him , but not plagiarizing ! ) The example you are citing is perfectly innocuous , particularly since you are not doing anything more than summarizing the paper contents . The only thing that would make it wrong would be to copy those sentences directly from someone else 's work .
Sentence patterns are not intellectual property ; otherwise , every author who wrote " To X or not to X " would be plagiarizing Shakespeare . ( They are " riffing " off of him , but not plagiarizing ! ) The example you are citing is perfectly innocuous , particularly since you are not doing anything more than summarizing the paper contents . The only thing that would make it wrong would be to copy those sentences directly from someone else 's work .
end question
start question
What are the ethics of getting help from online forums ?
Asking on math.stackexchange often does the trick , but I wonder what the ethics involved are . For instance , if someone provides a complete answer , and the result turns out to be integral to the paper , should I offer them authorship ? If someone else made an integral contribution to your work , it seems appropriate to offer them coauthorship , yes . You go on to say : I 'm not talking about a result that is novel in itself - i.e. it would not be considered as a contribution to mathematics . The result will be an application of standard mathematics to a particular engineering problem . I see what you 're getting at , but still : if you did not have the knowledge to write the paper , then asked someone for help , then based on their help you can write the paper , then it seems that they deserve to be offered coauthorship even if what they provided was from the perspective of their discipline completely routine and well-known . One example that springs to mind is the <URL> : this is a famous ( and , in my understanding , rather important ) law of genetics whose mathematical content really does seem to amount to : if p + q = 1 , then p ^ 2 +2 pq + q ^ 2 = 1 . The history of this is not what I had assumed it to be : it is not a collaboration between Hardy and Weinberg ( Weinberg was a German physician who had independently discovered the law at about the same time ) . Rather Reginald Punnett was having trouble defending Mendelian genetics against an argument of Udny Yule that dominant alleles would weed out recessive ones and thus genotypic frequencies would not remain stable in the population . Punnett brought this up to ( the great analytic number theorist ) G.H. Hardy who happened to be his cricket partner , who duly submitted a letter to the journal Science . As the wikipedia article points out , Hardy makes his take on his " contribution " pretty clear , e.g. in the phrasing " a little mathematics of the multiplication-table type is enough to show ... " It is interesting that this is not called the " Hardy-Punnett Law " ( though there are <URL> , which seem to my inexpert eye to be pretty much the same thing ) . One striking thing about this example is that the mathematics here is really trivial : it is hard to imagine any mathematician ( or engineer , etc. ) who would not have been able to answer the question . Of course , just because you offer someone coauthorship does not mean that they will take it . Most mathematicians I know are not interested in being coauthors of papers in other disciplines for which their contribution was purely mathematical and is regarded by them as " trivial " , " well-known " or both . If someone declines coauthorship then it seems largely agreed upon that you can go on to write the paper by yourself and include a clear acknowledgement of their contribution .
Asking on math.stackexchange often does the trick , but I wonder what the ethics involved are . For instance , if someone provides a complete answer , and the result turns out to be integral to the paper , should I offer them authorship ? If someone else made an integral contribution to your work , it seems appropriate to offer them coauthorship , yes . You go on to say : I 'm not talking about a result that is novel in itself - i.e. it would not be considered as a contribution to mathematics . The result will be an application of standard mathematics to a particular engineering problem . I see what you 're getting at , but still : if you did not have the knowledge to write the paper , then asked someone for help , then based on their help you can write the paper , then it seems that they deserve to be offered coauthorship even if what they provided was from the perspective of their discipline completely routine and well-known . One example that springs to mind is the <URL> : this is a famous ( and , in my understanding , rather important ) law of genetics whose mathematical content really does seem to amount to : if p + q = 1 , then p ^ 2 +2 pq + q ^ 2 = 1 . The history of this is not what I had assumed it to be : it is not a collaboration between Hardy and Weinberg ( Weinberg was a German physician who had independently discovered the law at about the same time ) . Rather Reginald Punnett was having trouble defending Mendelian genetics against an argument of Udny Yule that dominant alleles would weed out recessive ones and thus genotypic frequencies would not remain stable in the population . Punnett brought this up to ( the great analytic number theorist ) G.H. Hardy who happened to be his cricket partner , who duly submitted a letter to the journal Science . As the wikipedia article points out , Hardy makes his take on his " contribution " pretty clear , e.g. in the phrasing " a little mathematics of the multiplication-table type is enough to show ... " It is interesting that this is not called the " Hardy-Punnett Law " ( though there are <URL> , which seem to my inexpert eye to be pretty much the same thing ) . One striking thing about this example is that the mathematics here is really trivial : it is hard to imagine any mathematician ( or engineer , etc. ) who would not have been able to answer the question . Of course , just because you offer someone coauthorship does not mean that they will take it . Most mathematicians I know are not interested in being coauthors of papers in other disciplines for which their contribution was purely mathematical and is regarded by them as " trivial " , " well-known " or both . If someone declines coauthorship then it seems largely agreed upon that you can go on to write the paper by yourself and include a clear acknowledgement of their contribution .
I have n't been able to publish any papers in international journals yet , though I 'm determined to do so . Will it increase my chances ? Certainly . A post-doc is supposed to play an active role in the publication output of the department . Demonstrating that you have experience with academic publishing is certainly valuable . Without it , it will be difficult to land a academic post-doc position . So how do you successfully find a post-doc position ? First you need to find open positions that fit really well with your experience . Then , you will need to convince them that you are a fit candidate . It certainly helps if you can show tangible results . Think of e.g. working programs that you wrote . You might also consider doing a short post-graduate program at an institute where you would like to do a post-doc ( e.g. in the Netherlands there are 2 year PDEng programs ) . In this way you can demonstrate your abilities , and also get settled in the country of your designation .
This answer is meant to apply to graduate students ( like the OP ) . Talk to your advisor . She is the designated person to help you with your research . You should do so because : 1 ) Your advisor will probably have some help to offer . Give them more than one chance to do so , and be clear in communicating how much help you want/need at any given time . In your case I believe you said earlier that you talked to your advisor and got some but not enough help , because she only thought about your problem when you were there . To me that is the opposite of strange : being a thesis advisor myself , I recognize it as the classic tension inherent in the job . How much help do you give the student ? How much time you do spend thinking about the student 's problem so as to be able to give help ? There are usually no easy answers to these questions . Even in dealing with the same student , over time I often find myself : giving too much help ; giving too little help ; being put in a situation where the question they ask is too hard for me to give an answer on the spot and then having to try to find time for outside thoughts about their question . When you talk to your advisor , make sure she understands that you feel so stuck in your research that you are considering seeking outside help . 2 ) If you get outside help without telling your advisor about it , it could be embarrassing to her . It can be tough to ask the same person for help on the same thing more than once . But it is part of the advisor/advisee relationship . If my students showed up on SE sites asking questions that I feel that I could have answered , I would not feel great about it . ( Most of my negative feelings would be directed to myself rather than at them , but still : not great . ) 3 ) If you are truly stuck , your advisor needs to know . It very often happens that the best thing to do is to switch to working on a different aspect of the problem , or perhaps a different problem entirely . Your advisor is the one to help you with that . Let me also say that in the realm of mathematically-related research , two weeks is a fairly short amount of time to be working on something . If after two weeks you are completely out of ideas and do n't even know what else to try , then you should address that . If you simply have n't proved the " major theorem " yet : join the club . To prove a major theorem usually takes me at least two months ; two years is not at all unheard of , and is not a maximum . As long as you 're making some progress thinking about the problem , I do n't necessarily see anything wrong here . Added : The lack of directness of my answer was intentional , but let me add one comment . In my opinion the greatest risk in asking in the internet community for help in solving your mathematical research problem is ... that someone will solve your mathematical research problem . As mentioned above , your advisor is optimally briefed in the matter of how much help to give you / how any one question fits into the larger scheme of your research program , and still advising a student is a matter of successive errors and corrections ( i.e. , helping too much and too little ) . Being a PhD student has a highly egoistic aspect to it : you are not just trying to find solutions to problems ; you are trying to find them yourself . There is a real risk that the right expert will simply leave you without a problem to be working on . This is why talking your advisor is so critical : she may in fact decide at some point that asking for help is best , but in that case she will know exactly what and whom to ask in such a way that the rug is least likely to get pulled out from under you . This is very important !
This kind of questions are often closed due to being a " shopping question . " And yet , I do feel it 's important in faculty 's life . Perhaps you can reword your question so that it 's asking for " What to consider " rather than " Which software to use . " Now onto the question . The answer is " I do n't know . " It 's because the choice of platform can depend on a lot of criteria and not many were presented in the question . What I 'd suggest is to identify the education media person and the instruction designer in your institute and schedule a meeting with him/her . Prior to the meeting , prepare the followings . These are the general information the specialist will need to know : Is it synchronous ( live with real time interaction ) or asynchronous ( not live or only partially live , with more lag time interaction . ) For example , a live lecture that allows people to raise question at the same duration of time is closer to synchronous ; an uploaded video of a past lecture with a discussion board for Q&amp;A is more of an asynchronous design . The more details you can provide to the specialist , the more fitting the solution . Is it closed or open ? Do people need to RSVP and log in with user name or password ? Or is it just a link that anyone can access ? How many participants are you expecting ? Just a ballpark is fine . Do you need onsite AV and technical support ? This has impact on your pricing . But if none of the speakers has experience with technical troubleshooting , I 'd suggest get one at least for the first couple sessions . These are just the works you need to do with the education media person . On your side , there are a lot to think about as well : Online course has very different design concepts . While some of us may think that it 's just an extra camera in the lecture hall but it 's a lot more complicated than that . You 'd have to consider the pacing , consider if micro-lecture is a better alternative , figure out when to let participation or Q&amp;A happen , and design online assessment and evaluation , etc. . Resources are readily available on the Internet and in books . Consult the education media person for details . The management of the class is also different . For synchronous , I 'd suggest have one person do the teaching and one extra person ( could be a TA ) to manage the chat , collect and curate questions for you . It 's often disastrous for the speaker to try jumping between chatting and teaching . Test run , test run , test run , and test run more . If anything , this is the most important key to success . Find some friends and colleagues to join some test sessions . Collect information on their device and make sure there is a good diversity in operation systems , browsers used , microphone and camera models , desktops or tablets , etc. and make sure the system is as versatile and bullet proof as possible . Develop an etiquette/technical support guide and circulate it among the participants or make it available as a download prior to the event . The guide should contain i ) time and date of the event and details on how to log in . Screenshots with captions are great ; ii ) explain how to raise question ( through chat , e-mail , or bulletin board ) ; iii ) explain common etiquette such as mute your microphone when you 're not speaking to avoid audio feedback , etc. .
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
Reposting my answer from the original thread There have been multiple studies about this over the years and in different fields , indicating a link rot on the order of a few percent per year . Here are some , in chronological order : Randy J. Carnevale , Dominik Aronsky , The life and death of URLs in five biomedical informatics journals , International Journal of Medical Informatics , Volume 76 , Issue 4 , April 2007 , Pages 269-273 , doi : <URL> . states Of the 19,108 references extracted from 606 printed and 86 in-press articles , 1112 ( 5.8 % ) references contained a URL . Of the 1049 unique URLs , 726 ( 69.2 % ) were alive , 230 ( 21.9 % ) were dead , and 93 ( 8.9 % ) were comatose . URLs from in-press articles included 212 URLs , of which 169 ( 79.7 % ) were alive , 21 ( 9.9 % ) were dead , and 22 ( 10.4 % ) were comatose . The average annual decay , or link rot , rate was 5.4 % . Edmund Russell , Jennifer Kane ( 2008 ) . The Missing Link : Assessing the Reliability of Internet Citations in History Journals . Technology and Culture , Volume 49 , Number 2 , pp. 420-429 . doi : <URL> states We examined the reliability of worldwide web citations in two leading history journals ( Journal of American History and American Historical Review ) over seven years and found that 18 percent of web links cited over that period were inactive . The problem increased over time . In articles published seven years earlier , 38 percent of web citations were dead . Jason Hennessey and Steven Xijin Ge ( 2013 ) : A cross disciplinary study of link decay and the effectiveness of mitigation techniques . BMC Bioinformatics 14 ( Suppl 14 ) : S5 . doi : <URL> states we downloaded 18,231 Web of Science ( WOS ) abstracts containing " http " in the title or abstract from the years under study ( 1996-2010 ) , out of which 17,110 URLs ( 14,489 unique ) were extracted and used . We developed Python scripts to access these URLs over a 30-day period . For the period studied , 69 % of the published URLs ( 67 % of the unique ) were available on the live Internet , the Internet Archive 's Wayback Machine had archived 62 % ( 59 % unique ) of the total and WebCite had 21 % ( 16 % unique ) . Overall , 65 % of all URLs ( 62 % unique ) were available from one of the two surveyed archival engines . Klein M , Van de Sompel H , Sanderson R , Shankar H , Balakireva L , Zhou K , et al. ( 2014 ) Scholarly Context Not Found : One in Five Articles Suffers from Reference Rot . PLoS ONE 9 ( 12 ) : e115253 . doi : <URL> . looked at link rot in article corpora from arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC : All three corpora show a moderate , yet alarming , link rot ratio for references made in recent articles , published in 2012 : 13 % for arXiv , 22 % for Elsevier , and 14 % for PMC . Not surprisingly when considering the dynamic nature of the web , for older articles the link rot ratio increases in all corpora . For publication year 2005 , the link rot ratio stands at 18 % , 41 % , 36 % for arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC , respectively . Going back to the earliest publication year in our corpora , 1997 , the ratios become 34 % , 66 % , and 80 % , respectively . Zittrain , J , Albert , K and Lessig , L . ( 2014 ) . Perma : scoping and addressing the problem of link and reference rot in legal citations . Harvard Law Review 127 : 176 -- 196 . surveyed law journals and court decisions , with the following observations We documented a serious problem of reference rot : more than 70 % of the URLs within the above mentioned journals , and 50 % of the URLs within U.S. Supreme Court opinions suffer reference rot -- meaning , again , that they do not produce the information originally cited . I also think I had seen a study somewhere that indicated that even " early online " articles start out at about 5-10 % link rot , i.e. they start rotting well before official publication . Could not find that right now , though .
You will probably never know the full reason , because departments are not quick to air their internal issues with job candidates . But here are a few possible reasons : The search was halted by higher administration . One possible reason to do this so late in the process is because of funding changes ( e.g. the funding for the position disappeared or was reallocated elsewhere ) . The search was halted by the HR department due to some violation of hiring practices . The search committee was unable to come to an agreement about who to bring to campus for an interview , or the dean rejected all the candidates before they were interviewed . Although this is less likely , someone who had planned to retire might have decided not to retire , or someone from another department may have been moved into the department ( e.g. for legal reasons to settle a complaint ) .
Do you mean fellowships and other PhD-student only external awards , or are you OK with listing " I helped write this larger project grant that covered lots of people but I was not listed by name in the application " ? I think that in the last couple of years of a PhD , students should be helping to write the project proposals , but there are lots of reasons besides failure and lack of trying that might explain why they did not . Well-funded supervisors may , in my opinion misguidedly , shield their students from grant writing so that they can focus on the research . I think that this is a failure on the part of the supervisor to properly prepare a student for future research work , but it happens all the time . Some people do n't get this training until the are a postdoc . You should n't hold the actions of the supervisor against the candidate . Also , some applicants may believe that if they were " only " part of the writing team but not a co-PI or Senior Personnel ( in NSF-speak ) on an application , that they should not list it on their CV . Finally , even for external grants which only cover a single student ( fellowships and the like ) , having not applied for one does n't mean much . There are many , many more PhD students than there are fellowship opportunities . If you are trashing CVs for any of these reasons , you may be missing out on good postdocs . Edited to answer the question ( sort of ) : I do n't hire a lot of postdocs , but I have directly or indirectly hired 20-30 PhD-level research staff . Some of them are expected to participate in proposal writing . We gauge their ability to write proposals by looking for it on CVs , asking them about their experience when it 's not on their CVs , and talking about it during interviews . Then , we throw them in the deep end and see what happens . In my organization , we have large-scale projects that fund people 's time , but if they want to work on their personal research projects , they need to write proposals . Those who do , get to work on things besides the center-wide projects . Those who do n't , do n't .
Most of the answers here suggest limiting or prohibiting eating in the classroom , but I have to disagree . First , students generally do not control their own schedules . Personally , I often had five or six hours of class back-to-back as an undergrad , and I was not unusual in that regard . Yes , there are breaks between classes , but students need that time to get to the next classroom . In addition , many professors let their class go overtime , reducing the length of the break . If you prohibit eating , hungry students will simply choose to arrive late after getting a snack , which defeats the idea of minimizing disruptions by prohibiting eating . Second , you do n't know what medical issues a particular student has : they may be diabetic or need to eat at regular intervals for other reasons . While a student can tell you about this at the start of the term , I do n't like the idea of forcing students to discuss their medical issues with every professor , every term . After all , students who get special classroon accommodations due to a disability are not obliged to tell their professors what the specific disability is . For these reasons , if the university does not have a specific policy , I would tend to be lenient at first . Most students are reasonable people who wo n't show up to class with a five course dinner . If a specific concern arises during the term , such as very noisy food or garbage being left behind , you can address it either with the individual student or the class as a whole , as appropriate .
I think not . Ask yourself what the editor of the journal would think if your CV crossed their desk , and they saw you listing yourself as a reviewer and they 'd never heard your name before . Having a review delegated to you does not make you a reviewer for that journal . The journal chose your professor , not you , so you should not muddy the waters about what you 've been asked to do . If someone asks you about your reviewing experience , feel free to tell them that you did some subreviewing for your professor .
Many university mental health centers have PhD-only group therapy programs . These often focus on stress and anxiety . They will be proctored by a professional counselor but are designed to be a space where graduate students can help each other . The benefit is two-fold - you get to talk to people who are in grad school in your university , perhaps in a similar field or program . You 'd be surprised how similar some issues are regardless of field of study ( research falling behind , concern about funding , conflicts with PIs/advisers , etc. ) . But in group therapy you are able to work through issues in an explicitly private space . If you are having a serious issue , it may be good to start here rather than within your department . I 'd say that is any grievance you air to someone within your department has the chance to spread .
Some of the disadvantages of young professors vs. more senior staff may be : Less established in their field . One advantage of a very senior professor for a PhD student is that the senior professor often knows all or at least most of the important players in the area . Hence , he can put the student in contact with interesting collaborators , and open up doors for internships or postdocs . A younger professor may not yet have a network that broad . Less experienced . This one is obvious , but more senior professors are typically more experienced . They have advised many students before , and make less " beginner 's mistakes " ( e.g. , expecting too much from a student , and then getting angry because the student did not live up to those expectations ) . Less laid-back . Non-tenured professors need their students to perform , as their own career is very tightly coupled with their students ( mis - ) fortunes . Many a high-potential assistant professor will not take an unsuccessful research project lightly . This can be an advantage or a disadvantage - an ambitious student and a non-tenured professor may push each other to achieve great results , but the same professor and a more average student may lead to some friction and bad feelings . Less money . Younger professors tend to have less research grants ( yet ) . This has implications for you even if you personally have a stipend from another source , as it means there is less money for travel , less money to fund research students , etc. . Less pull in the faculty . This may be more relevant in some places than in others , but I have certainly seen faculties where working with an assistant professor had the disadvantage that your group was at a disadvantage whenever any sort of global resources were distributed . The senior professors were often able to acquire resources ( they did not actually need ) basically by appealing to their seniority . Higher chance that your advisor moves . Non-tenured professors are much more likely to change university ( voluntarily or due to not getting tenure ) than ones that are already tenured . Especially take this into account if the tenure review of your professor is planned for the next years . These things just came from the top of my head , I will edit the answer if I can think of anything else . Sidenote : yes , these are all stark simplifications . No , none of those points has to be true for any given young professor .
What is the likelihood of a PhD-holder remaining unemployed ? ... I learnt that even a PhD from a US university is not enough to secure a job . The US National Science Foundation ( NSF ) <URL> on where doctoral graduates in STEM areas ( Science/Technology/Engineering / Mathematics ) end up working . <URL> , wherein the NSF provide statistics on the employment status of all PhD graduates from STEM areas trained in the U.S. Across all of their fields , they count 752,000 relevant graduates , of which they estimate that 651,200 were employed at that time ( 578,700 full-time , 72,400 part-time ) , 11,400 were unemployed and seeking work , 75,900 were retired , and 13,500 were not seeking work . An <URL> is calculated as : = / ( is Unemployment Rate , is number of people UnEmployed , is the number of people in the Labour Force [ working or seeking work ] . ) So for the 752,000 U.S. trained PhD graduates considered , the NSF estimated an unemployment rate of 1.7205 % in 2008 . This is compared with a U.S. unemployment rate of ~ 6 % in mid-2008 . So to return to your question ... What is the likelihood of a PhD-holder remaining unemployed ? More than three times lower than the general population ( for US-trained STEM PhD holders ) . Furthermore , a small percentage of unemployment is inevitable as some percentage of people will always be between jobs for a short time . ( Someone more in tune with economics may be able to comment on whether or not 1.72 % is close to " <URL> " , but being unemployed for > 1.72 % of your career while taking a break between jobs does n't seem unreasonable . ) A more detailed break-down of the total size of the labour force and the unemployment rate per field follows , so if you 're in a STEM area , you can pick whichever field is closest to yours . Caveats : The context is 2008 , US-trained STEM PhDs . Unemployment started increasing in 2008 with the onset of the <URL> . A PhD is just paperwork . What you do for your PhD is far more important than the degree itself . Of course simply being employed is not necessarily the same as having the great job that you always wanted , and certainly we can not infer from these data that doing a PhD is always the best path for everyone to follow their dreams .
I am not aware of initiatives in other countries . However , while VroniPlag started out with examinations of German doctoral theses , it is no longer limited to those . <URL> To the extent that this is a continuing trend , VroniPlag already is an international project . So the answer to the question in your title ( which differs from that in the body ) , whether online community investigations of PhD thesis plagiarism outside Germany exist , is yes .
High impact journals , or in other word , top ranked journals ( based on IF ) are those publishing the state-of-the-art research works with high percentage of novelty and originality . In my own opinion following tips are very important in getting into the high impact journals : Select a real challenging problem whose solution/amendment significantly impacts on the domain . Formulate the problem ( using mathematical modeling , visualization , or empirical experiment depending on the domain ) and let peers/reviewers see the significance of the problem . Propose a solution with high degree of novelty in a way that has not been undertaken before for the same problem . Throughout the research try to follow the conventions of research in your domain in the highest possible level , especially when it comes to evaluation and validation of your work . In data collection phase , try to follow the most appropriate approaches and use accurate tools to measure/quantify . Maybe looking at similar papers can help you in this . Avoid silly mistakes . Usually reviewers do not expect to see silly mistakes in the work . If you make small obvious mistakes , how can reviewers ensure the rest of your work is error-free . Show high level of confidence in understanding and expertise over the domain . If you need to review related works in your paper , try to select those closely related to your work ; not any work . Present your work nicely . Avoid English errors ( no grammar and no spelling ) . Use professional drawing tools to draw high quality figures , draw nice tables , use proper sizing for objects in the paper , not too big , not to small . There is an approach by some young authors that leave some works to be done in revisions stage , which is not correct to me . Do n't send incomplete work to any high quality journal . There will hardly be any chance to correct mistakes . The review is more to evaluate the significance of the work , the novelty , relevance to the journal , and research practice presented in the paper . Reviewers are not English proof reader and their job is not to correct you . There may be lot more tips that I will compile as I noticed . Hope it works .
No , why should it ? Running out of copyright explicitly means a loss of a right . It does not mean the beginning of any additional obligation . Running out of copyright , however , means that anybody who already owns a copy may duplicate it and make it available under any conditions he chooses ( including making it available free of charge ) . Many university libraries do this .
I completely agree with ff524 's criteria , but here are some further considerations : A good thesis topic should not be all or nothing . Instead , it should accommodate a range of levels of ambition . There should be fallback options that would be enough to graduate even if things go poorly , moderately ambitious outcomes that you could reasonably aim for , and very ambitious outcomes that would be fantastic if they could be achieved . It should offer scope for creativity and choice by the student . You can only impress hiring committees so much if it looks like your advisor was the mastermind behind your thesis . Instead , it has to be clear that over time you took ownership of the project and played a major role in determining its direction ( even if your advisor made the initial suggestion and provided feedback and guidance ) . Your thesis topic should connect with other topics you 'd like to explore in the future . If you spend your entire early career revisiting and elaborating on your thesis topic , it wo n't set you up for success as a researcher . Instead , you need to branch out , and your choice of thesis topic can really help with this . Choose a topic that is central and well-connected to adjacent areas , rather than one that is isolated . That way you can build on your previous experience as you branch out . Your thesis advisor needs to care about the topic . Sometimes people are willing to supervise theses on topics they do n't particularly care about . They do this in an attempt to be helpful , but it can end up working against you when you graduate and discover that your advisor 's lack of caring translates into a lack of support on the job market . For a multi-year project like a thesis , it 's generally best to pick a topic that seems to be becoming more popular and influential over time , rather than less so . This sounds obvious , but it 's surprisingly subtle to figure out . Beginners are sometimes a little behind the times and can get excited by topics that were hot a few years ago but have since been thoroughly investigated and are already in decline . It should be something you like doing , not just something you would like to have done .
This answer serves mainly to corroborate @Anonymous Mathematician 's answer . As she says , the most important thing to realize is that there are two different kinds of exams that go under the name " prelims / quals " . The first of these generally : ( i ) tests undergraduate material ( ii ) is administered soon after arrival in the graduate program ( iii ) used to be used for preliminary weed-out purposes but is now -- at least , in most programs I know about -- used almost entirely for diagnostic purposes . Probably ( iii ) is most important : once upon a time , many graduate programs -- even excellent ones , like Berkeley ( in fact , especially Berkeley ) -- admitted lots of students , as in up to 50 % more than were expected to finish . The idea was to give a large group of people , including those with less than sterling ( or ivy ) pedigrees , a fair shot . Then after a small amount of time in the program -- maybe a year or less -- they would take a " prelim " exam , and a significant portion would fail and leave . This is no longer the way graduate programs work ( at least not in North America , which is what I am primarily familiar with , but to the best of my meager knowledge they do n't work that way in other parts of the world either ) . We pay much closer attention to each student we admit now than in the scenario above , and further our program is judged on retention and completion rates . A graduate program in 2012 who dismissed a third or more of its incoming class every year would look disastrously bad by these sorts of metrics . So this " weedout prelim " is , as far as I know , a thing of the past . In the graduate program at UGA we still give a " prelim exam " to all entering graduate students , but as I said above we use it almost entirely for diagnostic purposes . In fact we have a certain graduate course designed entirely for students who did n't do well on the prelim , whose purpose is to shore up their undergraduate knowledge ASAP . Other than being encouraged to take this course , there are no direct consequences of failing the prelim ( in fact , I 'm not sure that one " passes " or " fails " the prelim in any technical sense ) . In contrast , most of the " qualifying exams " that you hear graduate students talking about are something entirely different . They : ( i ) test graduate level material ; in particular , most students do not enter equipped with the knowledge to pass most qualifying exams . ( ii ) occupy students ' attention for a while : in our program , students have up to three years to pass their qualifying exams . ( iii ) really must be passed in order for students to advance in the program , in most cases . I hope this answers your question . Let me say though that the scores on the " prelim " exam -- i.e. , the undergraduate level exam that I mentioned first -- are often all over the place . All of our entering students have at least an undergraduate degree in mathematics . So , unfortunately , no , an undergraduate degree in mathematics is not a guarantee of ability to do undergraduate level mathematics ... at least not to the satisfaction of a decent mathematics graduate program . ( And a student who does poorly on this entering prelim may yet succeed in doing PhD level mathematics a little later on : that is , the fault often seems to lie with the undergraduate program more than the student . )
Abstract Firstly , the answer will tackle the question 's false assumption that the US is the most attractive destination for international students . Secondly , I will cite some of the factors making a country/region 's education system attractive to international students . Finally , to tackle some of the comments , I will present a chart showing number of international students per capita in selected countries . USA is not the most attractive destination for international students According to the <URL> , the number one destination of foreign students among OECD countries is Europe followed by Northern American region : European countries in the OECD were the destination for 38 % of foreign students in 2009 followed by North American countries ( 23 % ) . Despite the strong increase in absolute numbers , these proportions have remained stable during the last decade . To put the numbers above to global perspective , observe also that Foreign students enrolled in G20 countries account for 83 % of total foreign students , and students in the OECD area represent 77 % of the total foreign students enrolled worldwide . Factors driving attractiveness of higher education in OECD countries Again , according to <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Language as well as cultural considerations , quality of programmes , geographic proximity and similarity of education systems are determining factors driving student mobility . The destinations of international students highlight the attractiveness of specific education systems , whether because of their academic reputation or because of subsequent immigration opportunities . Commenters to the question cite the ratio of international students per capita as an indicator of attractiveness of education system for foreign students . While I do not see any direct correlation between attractiveness of an educational system and the ratio of foreign students per capita ( countries can be arbitrarily protective , or non-protective w.r.t. their own citizens ) , I prepared the following chart from the OECD data ( relevant to year 2009 ) : The chart was constructed by merging data from the <URL> with OECD countries population data from <URL> as published in the <URL> . The computation is done on non-citizen students column for the year 2009 , except for United States it is the number of non-resident students ( due to lack of a non-citizen students datapoint ) .
end question
start question
How can I quickly and easily index my hand-written notes ?
The professional version of Adobe Acrobat provides advanced functions like commenting and indexing , but it 's not cheap . The free <URL> enables annotations and bookmarks and works well . It 's quick , easy , and I can save the updated versions and access the bookmarks , etc in free Adobe Reader . Writing some big keywords in <URL> on my written notes ( before scanning ) has been a big help .
It will be much easier for you to learn German to conversational level than all of your co-workers learn English . Even if they are some-what able to talk in English , conversational English is actually pretty tough , whilst German is pretty structured and easy once you know the rules ( and the many exceptions ;) ) More importantly , you moved to Germany . Whilst English is expected of all Scientists , there is probably more of an expectation in your lab that you will , eventually , learn German . Personally , I would tell everyone you are going to German classes on Monday mornings , etc , and that should not only fix this issue , but also give you a positive perception among your co-workers as someone who is a fixer . Also , speaking from experience as someone who did n't take their own advice when doing a PhD in Germany - if you dumb-down your English for non-native ears , you very quickly find yourself not being able to speak English with natives . Whenever i go back home my parents think I have some kind of brain damage ...
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
I have heard stories about some ( mostly weak ) young mathematicians include the names of some people ( influential enough ) to facilitate the acceptance of their papers or to help them for employment , grants , etc. . In fact , two years ago , an almost innocent case of this was going to happen to me . In Iran , most departments of mathematics have this ( written or non-written ) rule that a master or a PhD student should have at least one paper with his/her supervisor , otherwise she can not graduate or she misses some points from her thesis grade . I had a master student and she wanted to get the highest grade and therefore she asked me if I allow her to write a weak paper and include my name as a co-author of the paper . I deny it and she missed 1 ( out of 20 ) from her thesis grade . Of course , to compensate the 1 point unfair reduction , I defended her and asked the jury to not reduce any more points from her grade .
How to efficiently read a paper is not something that can be taught over the internet in broad generalities . It seems pretty futile to try to teach it " in general " in general ( !! ) , by which I mean that if you 're trying to teach someone how to read a paper , you had better have at least one actual paper in hand . You can try to draw broader morals , but whatever lessons are there to be learned should be grounded in the reading of that particular paper . Thus for instance How to find the those parts which talk about the main idea ? would be silly to address without seeing the paper . I find more promise here : My advisor said you should understand the main idea of a paper in one hour , or at maximum in two hours . But I need at least 5 hours . Your advisor knows me ?!? Sorry , just kidding . Anyway , that 's exactly whom you should be talking to . But even with your advisor you are stuck on a way too general discussion . Go to her with with paper you are trying to read now , and learn how the advice applies to that paper . Let me also say that I am a bit skeptical of the hard limits your advisor is imposing , or more precisely with the way you are construing whatever your advisor told you . Obviously 1-2 hours can not be the amount of time needed to understand the main idea of every paper : some papers are just significantly longer , more difficult and/or more obscure than others . Speaking for myself : after some years of experience for reading for the main idea , depending on the paper , sometimes I can now grasp the main idea just as soon as I run my eyes over the first page ; sometimes it takes me an hour or two ; sometimes it takes me a full day 's work ; sometimes at the end of a full day 's work I find that I do n't understand the main idea . Where is this 1-2 hour figure coming from , and what does " should " mean here ? Maybe she means " Come back if you 've spent more than two hours on it and I 'll give you more help . " Or maybe she means that 's an upper bound for how long it would take her to read the paper . But she 's not a student , she 's supervising one . If there 's one matter in which students should be skeptical of their advisors , it 's in their advisors ' estimations of how long it will ( or " should " ) take a student to do something . It 's not a matter of arguing with your advisor but rather letting her in to understand your process . If it 's taking you so much more time than she expects , show her what you 're doing and see what she has to say . Let me also say that a longer time spent on something is n't inherently problematic . If you are reading in a language different from your own native one , it will take you longer -- and skimming will take you much longer . Most academics eventually realize that the people who can complete tasks more quickly are often but far from always the ones who can do the best work on those tasks . Real breakthroughs are things that people chew on and work through for weeks , months or years . Some speed freak types simply do n't have the patience or focus to linger on something for much longer than it takes for others to see how quick they are . So if you are eventually understanding what you 're reading quite well and you 're not lagging far behind in other tasks : ask yourself whether you really have a problem or just a certain skill that you 'd like to optimize when you get the chance .
The best way to deal with this is on a broader level and explain the rules during an introductory or preparatory course to all incoming students . For example , at our department , first year students have to follow a course on academic skills , and there they also talk about emailing professors . It also has the advantage that students do n't have to deal with different expectations by each professor . One sign that it works at least to a certain extent : Students seem to learn in that course that they should sign with their name and their student number ( something which I never expected and definitly did not ask for ) , but most of them actually do sign this way ( at least when contacting me first ) .
You should look for faculty working in the field that you are interested in researching , and then pitch your research idea directly to them . Make sure that you do a good job with a preliminary review of the literature for your idea and understand the professor 's specific research interests , so that your letter does not sound like any of the hundreds of mail-merge messages that professors get every week . If your idea is really worthwhile and you do a good targeted job of pitching it , changes are that someone will agree to work with you on it . However , the reality is that most students come into a PhD without a really good sense of existing literature or the feasibility of their ideas . It is for this reason that there is great value in being open-minded about your PhD thesis . Many students make the mistake of thinking that the PhD should be the pinnacle of their career , solving some grand problem in human existence . This might happen for a few figures in history , but , more typically , the PhD is the start of a research career and not the end of it .
What you 're referring to is an indirect source . In general , you should always work as hard as you can to find the original source . If that is not possible , all of the major style guides include a way to cite indirect sources . Note that you should not cite Wikipedia ( see the " do not cite Wikipeida " note at the end of this answer ) . If an indirect citation is absolutely necessary , it should come from a reputable , peer-reviewed journal or other academically respected source . According to <URL> , the MLA rule is to name the author of the indirect source in the text and cite the work you have in-hand : For such indirect quotations , use " qtd . in " to indicate the source you actually consulted . For example : Ravitch argues that high schools are pressured to act as " social service centers , and they do n't do that well " ( qtd . in Weisman 259 ) . Note that , in most cases , a responsible researcher will attempt to find the original source ... <URL> further clarifies that the indirect work should be included in your Works Cited list : ... include the indirect source in the Works Cited . The APA rule ( also from <URL> ) is to exclude the indirect source ( called the " original source " , below ) from your reference list and only include the work you have in-hand ( called the " secondary source " ) : ... name the original source in your signal phrase . List the secondary source in your reference list and include the secondary source in the parentheses . Johnson argued that ... ( as cited in Smith , 2003 , p. 102 ) . [ ... ] Also , try to locate the original material and cite the original source . The Chicago rule ( once again , from <URL> ) is to cite the indirect source , followed by the in-hand resource : ... Chicago discourages the use of [ indirect sources ] . In the case that an original source is utterly unavailable , however , Chicago recommends the use of " quoted in " for the note : Ian Hacking , The Social Construction of What ? ( Cambridge , MA : Harvard University Press , 1999 ) , 103 , quoted in Manuel DeLanda , A New Philosophy of Society ( New York : Continuum , 2006 ) , 2 . That said , do not cite Wikipedia in a formal document ( unless , perhaps , you are actually writing about Wikipedia or collaborative editing techniques ) . I love Wikipedia , and I believe it is reasonably well-maintained and has a lot of good information . However , you have no way to verify if the information in an article is true -- or , if you do have a source to verify it , you would just cite that source . Aside from the tired , " Anyone can edit it ! " complaint , two severe issues with Wikipedia as a citation source are : You get whatever version of an article stands at the exact moment your web browser fetches the page . No matter how hard Wikipedia 's editors work , they ca n't stop a bad edit from reaching your web browser if it was made seconds before you fetched the page . Wikipedia does n't undergo any kind of pre-publication review ; all review is post-publication , which means you may see totally unreviewed information . ( You can mitigate this by citing a specific past revision , but it still stands that a post-publication review process means that any given revision of an article could have claims that have been reviewed by absolutely no one except the author . ) In order for a reader or reviewer to ascertain the usefulness of a source , it must have an identifiable set of authors ( or , for anonymous works , at least a consistent , reasonably small set of authors ) . Wikipedia makes that requirement incredibly difficult to satisfy . ( Again , it 's possible to satisfy this requirement if you cite a specific revision of a page and find out what contributors wrote each part of a page , but it is still difficult since a potentially huge number of contributors have helped build that revision . ) It 's hard for a Wikipedia article to be reputable where there are no clearly identifiable authors to which a reader could attach a reputation .
Are there any techniques I could use to determine whether an essay that I suspect was written by someone else , but not published elsewhere , is a student 's own work ? Ask the student to come to your office hours or a private meeting . Then , say : " I was really impressed by your recent paper , it was an excellent piece of work ! Let 's discuss it some more . " Student who did the work will be able to discuss said work intelligently . Student who did n't do the work is unlikely to be able to carry on an intelligent conversation about said work . ( This still is n't proof of any kind , and you ca n't accuse student of cheating without some evidence - but if you 're lucky , student will at least be spooked enough to never do it again . ) Are there any steps I can take to ensure I do n't receive questionable essays in the first place ? Assign essays that are a few steps beyond , but still closely tied to , what 's been discussed in class , such that somebody who was n't in the class will not be able to produce the kind of essay you 're expecting ( the effectiveness of this depends very much on the subject matter ) .
Most established academic journals are indexed in what are logically called " journal indexes " . These indexes commonly record all publication metadata , and usually also include a record of all citations . Such indexes are thus called <URL> . Now , the problem with viXra is inherent to its " alternative " nature : it is most definitely not indexed by conventional players ( Web of Science , CrossRef , PubMed , CAS , etc. ) . You thus have two ways of looking for citations to your paper : <URL> includes content from viXra in its results ( see <URL> 's first hit , for example ) . It probably also records citations of such articles , but the quality of citation matching is limited by Google 's heuristic algorithms . They 're good , but not as good as DOI-based mechanism that commercial databases nowadays employ . A regular web search with you name , or the title of your paper . This is not as automated , but it may give good results as to who is citing your work , especially if this is one of your first papers and you do n't yet have a large web presence . ( Obvious caveat : if your name is John Smith or Li Wang , web search will not help much . )
My experience from European universities is that even there , the grades should not be posted by name , but instead by a student ID number . However , in most cases , the university requires the public posting of the grades in such a manner ( for exactly the reasons you suggest -- to allow for petitioning of changes in grade ) . Moreover , because of the large number of students who may be taking a course , it can be highly impractical for the teaching staff to respond to individual requests for reporting grades by email . ( Imagine having to send out 1800 emails for a single course ! ) Consequently , while you might ask for anonymizing of the grade reports by student ID instead of name , I think it would be unfair to ask the professors to report individual grades by email , unless you have an exceptional and demonstrated need for such an email ( for instance , you are unable to get your grade because of extended absence without Internet access ) .
Yes , I would suggest you include these in the CV for a graduate application . It probably wo n't make a huge difference in admissions , but it is evidence that you are interested and involved in the research community in your field . You can list them in any way that seems appropriate ; there 's no strict standard format for a CV . You probably have sections for " Education " and " Work experience " and maybe " Publications " ; make a similar section entitled " Conferences attended " or " Conference participation " or something like that . Include the title , date and location of each conference , and maybe a short sentence discussing the scope of the meeting and your role . ( As discussed in the question you linked : later in your career , you will probably want to take this section out . )
It sounds as though you are having a hard time finding motivation for pursuing your PhD . You do n't mention the focus of your research , but one idea would be to modify the focus so that it aligns better with your addicting hobby of web-development ( I 'm not familiar with CS , so I have no idea how this would work in actual practice . Others will better be able to advise you on that . ) Become interested in your research . Assuming that you have compelling reasons for staying in your current area of research , you will need to have a genuine passion for the subject , or completing the PhD will become well-nigh impossible due to lack of motivation . See <URL> by Scott Young on how to learn boring subjects ; his advice also holds for renewing interest in something . See the key points below . Do n't pick degree programs you hate . Although there are times when you may have to take courses you do n't actually like , avoid a career made up of tasks and information you hate . Do n't confuse boring and difficult . It is easy to avoid something as boring , rather than admitting that it is difficult . Find the ' real-world ' connections . Math is n't boring when you begin to see the connections and overall patterns -- ditto for many other subjects/areas . Discover the context . Take the time to explore the background , and understand why these [ proofs , theorems , whatever ] are important for where we are now . Young recommends reading Wikipedia articles on lunch-breaks for this purpose . Make stories and pictures . Learning is a creative activity -- the product is the intangible connections and stories in our minds . Mnemonics and stories can be interesting even when the subject is not . ( Use this for the necessary but boring parts of research . ) Use the knowledge . Using even part of what you learn in a separate project will help cement the learning , and will also be interesting . ( And anyway , is n't this part of the purpose of a PhD , to apply knowledge in new ways ? ) Realize that not everything will be fun -- more interest is better , even if relative differences still exist .
In all of my experience : no one within academia cares about honor societies whatsoever . To expand on that : in academia we routinely ( closer to constantly ) evaluate people based on their academic qualifications , in a very serious way : i.e. , the " winners " get offered substantial scholarships and/or jobs . Not once have I ever heard anyone mention membership in an honor society in any of these decisions . Not for faculty hiring , not for graduate admissions , not for picking TA 's ... never . When I was an undergraduate I did join Phi Beta Kappa ( junior year : whoop de frickin ' doo ) and Sigma Xi . The way I recall it , I was moderately encouraged to do so by my undergraduate program . And I must say that the amount of money that I gave to these people -- if any ; maybe my school paid it themselves ? -- was truly negligible : at most $ 40 , or something like that . Based on this money , for many years afterwards I got : Regular newsletters from the organizations that made what looked like reasonable attempts at giving me some kind of scientific / academic contacts . ( Not that I read them ... ) Semi-regular very strange calls offering to sell me gold-laminated books and other such frippery . Often these were done with enough of a " hard-sell " solicitation to get me a little steamed : one caller spoke breathlessly about the gold-laminated books and at the end asked me how many additional copies I wanted to order at a discounted price . I mentioned that she skipped an important step , and she asked what that was . I revealed that at no point in the conversation had she asked me whether I was even the slightest bit interested in buying anything from her . The rest of the conversation was brief but tense . Based on these experiences , whenever any student asks me whether they should join an honor society -- the ones which are not supposed to be scams , like Phi Beta Kappa -- I say " I do not advise you to do it if you have to pay more than the most negligible amount of money . " However , I have occasionally talked to other faculty and university personnel about this issue , and their experiences are not always as negative as mine . What I suspect may be true ( but I have unfortunately never had the occasion to find out ! ) is that : academic honors societies may be useful for people who are leaving academia , by providing some kind of modest continuing contact with the academic world . I mean , the idea that I need to open up a bi-annual newsletter and read about what other academics are doing makes no sense for me : I learn about what other academics are doing by going to work . But for people who go off into industry -- or something else -- maybe it is valuable . On the other hand , I have to imagine that , as with so many things , the internet makes this kind of thing largely obsolete : the amount of access that any citizen of the world with an internet connection has to current academic activity is greater now than what any professor had twenty years ago . One final question : does anyone care if your CV says you are a Phi Beta Kappa ( junior year ! ) ? I suspect not -- as someone else mentioned , these awards are given for your GPA , and you put your GPA on your CV anyway . But I would , as ever , be interested to hear other perspectives .
" in-house " program is the term I always use myself and see in other people 's papers . In the corporate context , <URL> defines it as In-house software is a software that is produced by a corporate entity for purpose of using it within the organization . <URL> in an academic context Energy minimization is done with yammp , an in-house molecular mechanics package . <URL> All analyses were done with a battery of in-house codes and external analytical tools . I would n't say " in-house " strictly means " the source code is private " . I have sometimes seen people use " in-house " to mean " code our own research group wrote and uses , but which we also make available as open-source code " . But if I see a sentence in an article like " All analysis was performed using in-house code " , and no reference , then I read it as " We used some code we wrote ourselves which we have n't published anywhere " , which sounds like what you want .
Disclaimer : This is somewhat field-dependent . I 'm answering based on what I believe to be the current situation in computer science / related fields . 1 ) Can you claim authorship given the way things have evolved ? Probably not . 2 ) Would it have been a good idea for him to find a way to include you in the research collaboration so that you could get something out of your work ? Yes . The area of academia in which I work ( * ) is structured so as to value ideas over implementation . In practice , that means that it 's not uncommon for people who write large amounts of code for a project to get little credit for it , which seems inherently unjust . The way sensible people usually handle this is to make sure that people who do a lot of implementation work are given an opportunity to contribute scientifically over and above that - that allows them to justify their authorship in scientific terms , regardless of the fact that they also made significant non-scientific contributions to the overall project . It 's certainly possible to take advantage of implementers by not doing this , but people who do that tend to find themselves doing the implementation work themselves . Bottom line : He should have had the common sense to include you in the scientific collaboration , and if he did n't have that common sense then his supervisor should have suggested it . As an aside , I would view the situation somewhat differently if you already had a publication as a result of your work . In that case , you 've already got the credit for working on the framework , and there 's less of a moral obligation to include you in the new collaboration : instead , they can simply cite you . I 'm certainly not of the view that writing a framework entitles you to be involved in every paper that is ever built on top of that framework - indeed , I 've written frameworks that other people have continued to use for later research , and I would n't expect to be involved with the papers in question . ( * ) As pointed out in the comments , this may not be the case in other fields .
The novelty of a scientific result is defined in terms of its relationship to previously published results . In order to perform such a comparison you need : to have a good idea of what related works have been published by the community , typically obtained by some combination of reading papers and attending conferences , and to compare your your system against the most similar prior systems and demonstrate its quantitative or qualitative superiority ( e.g. " my system is three times faster " or " my system can process widgets AND frobs , and all previous systems could only do one or the other " ) . The " amount " of novelty is then how much better you are , relative to the interests of the community , and is very community dependent : a 2 % improvement in the cost of manufacturing concrete is worth billions of dollars , while a 2 % improvement in the speed of a personal computer program is generally unnoticeably tiny .
The strategy that I used was to divide the work into chunks and assign them to finite periods of time . Let 's say your exam is in three months and you have two books to read and two course notes to review . That means that you 'll have 12 weeks to study . The 12th week should be reserved for " hitting the hotspots " before your exam and general review of all the materials covered in weeks 1-11 . Then divide up material to be covered from the two books and two courses across the remaining 11 weeks . I would suggest that you divide it into 11 weekly topics . Assign reading to yourself . The goal of each week worth of studying is to create your own " cliff notes " for that week 's chunk of material that can be studied during week 12 . A good strategy to avoid burnout is to schedule time for no studying . This especially important since you have family . Make sure that you schedule your no study time during a time that they also want to interact with you . For example , no more studying after noon on Sundays would be a good amount of time . Since you do have family , also consider scheduling alone time for yourself where you get to do only what you want . Doing nothing , watching tv , or checking on your stackexchange questions are okay during that time . But make sure to limit those activities to only that time . Good luck !
I would n't find it okay if someone would come to my house because of that . Work and personal life should be separate and it would be inappropriate to visit the supervisor there . Does he not have an office ? If nobody can tell you where to find him , then you should call him or write an email and ask for an appointment .
In the modern day of vastly intelligent computer software and important internet presence , it is highly unlikely that a missing middle initial will be the cause of " nonrecognition " of your name . As Stephan wrote , a bigger problem is name confusion ; it is definitely a good idea for you to start including your middle initial ( s ) in future publications . I 'll answer here focused more on how to make sure the names are " linked " . <URL> , which is compiled entirely by a computer ( my only contribution there was identification of duplicate entries and removing them ) , even picked up some of my undergraduate term-reports which I put on my website many years ago ( and which are now no longer available ) . Of my published papers , I 've listed at various times my name as Willie Wong W W Wong Willie W Wong Willie W-Y Wong and I do n't seem to have had much trouble * . If you want better control over the articles associated to your name , you can always register for <URL> and/or an <URL> which are both designed to help alleviate the problem of name collision and name changes throughout the career of a research scientist . For fields which encourages the use of arXiv , the <URL> also helps group all of your pre-prints , and allows you neat things like <URL> showing your recent pre-prints . For mathematics , the AMS maintains <URL> ( they recently upgraded this ! ) to which you can also submit corrections to include omitted paper or to exclude misattributed papers by other authors . ( The AMS author profiles are only accessible through a MathSciNet subscription . ) I am not that familiar with other fields , but you should look around to see if your scholarly society provides a similar service to help maintain a comprehensive publication record for authors . * With Google , at least . Microsoft Academic Search has some trouble coming up with my complete list of publications .
end question
start question
Sending several PhD applications to professors in the same university ?
Your situation is n't that uncommon , actually . You have many options in front of you , and more than one appeal to you . There 's no shame in that ... To answer your questions : How bad would it be seen if I sent applications to several professors ? . I ca n't see why this would considered bad . If anything you are excited about applying to projects . If you have a good portfolio/application , and if you do n't look too desperate there should n't be much of a problem . Just make sure that your applications are relevant and fine-tuned for each position . Nobody likes boiler-plate applications spammed all over the place . . Will the professors even find out that I sent applications to their colleagues ? . They may or may not , it depends on the requirement process ( whether it 's electronic/web-based etc ) used by the institution , as well as the ethical considerations by these professors in question . If you are but a name to these people , what makes you think that they 'll even recognize that you have applied to more than one position ? How many are too many ? See the part above about boiler-plate applications , and spam . You do n't want the person reading your application to get the feeling that you have applied to every possible position . If you can actually muster up a solid application to 15 positions , I say kudos and good luck ! :) But seriously , you do n't want to come across as " I 'll do anything , just pick me ! " Take your time , think about your interests , strengths etc. . And submit one or a few strong applications to positions that are most relevant to you . If you do n't get one of your favorites , but your profile fits some other open position they 'll likely call you in for an interview anyways . Especially if it 's the same group .
My guess about the situation is that your prior rejections will not significantly affect the editors ' opinions on your new submission . However , the fact of your prior repeated rejections is evidence that you are misjudging the suitability of your papers for that journal , either the aptness of the topic ( s ) , or the level and quality . Thus , if I had to wager , I 'd bet that you 'll be rejected again ... not because you were rejected before , but because the factors in play that led to your prior rejections will most likely manifest themselves in the present case . So , really , you should get more-specific advice from an advisor or mentor about appropriate venue ( s ) for your papers , as well as possibly critiques of the writing style .
In Germany , professorships and doctorates are considered to be " legal " titles , and have special status not accorded to other degrees and professions . In particular , university professors in Germany are Beamter ( appointed civil servants ) , which places them in a relatively small class of government employees . It is to be noted that a professor in a German university can be called " Herr Professor " or " Frau Professor " only so long as he or she is actively working as a professor ; following retirement or leaving the university profession , it is technically not permitted to use the title . Thus , in this sense , the appellation " Professor " is legally part of someone 's name , and should therefore be used in formal greetings and salutations . ( This can sometimes be annoying -- for example , in a physician 's waiting room , you can hear them call for " Frau Professor Schmidt ! " )
Some quotes from <URL> : ETH is a federal institute ( i.e. , under direct administration by the Swiss government ) , whereas the University of Zrich is a cantonal institution . [ ... ] In the beginning , both universities were co-located in the buildings of the University of Zrich . [ ... ] Events of the neighboring University of Zrich are well-attended by ETH students and vice versa . [ ... ] The amicable rivalry between ETH and the neighbouring University of Zrich has been cultivated since 1951 [ ... ]
Unless you 're under a tight space constraint , there 's no harm in having a bullet point in awards and honors saying " N times on Undergraduate Honors List ( top x % of students in a year ) " or whatever is the correct information . It 's slightly different than GPA because GPA is sum total and this is per year . Make sure you have something like the parentheses explaining what it means , because nobody outside your institution will know . Some readers may notice it and have a small positive reaction ; some wo n't care or will find it redundant , but if it 's just one bullet point and you do n't have a CV full of filler , then they probably wo n't mind either .
Obviously you should check for yourself with whoever you attempt to publish the manuscript with , but I 've never seen a journal state that the title of a publication must be unique , and I have publications which have appeared in some form as posters with the same title . It actually makes some sense to keep the titles the same . Any buzz that you might have generated with the poster may increase readership of the article . If you have separate titles then potential readers would n't have the association .
I do n't think the resumes will be compared . Because all the applications along with its documents always go directly to the respective departments . Moreover , in any case the materials of your CV will never vary greatly . So you can make two different resumes for two different programs as they fit to the program .
In the US , supervising graduate students is generally considered part of the normal workload of a faculty member and there 's no extra pay for doing this . The number of students supervised is typically a factor in tenure , promotion , and pay raise evaluations . Not supervising enough graduate students can hurt your evaluations and might possibly result in your not getting tenure or promotion or a pay raise .
The issue is highly field-dependent . In computer science , it 's probably still considered highly unethical , but in my field -- chemical engineering , where papers are not normally " published " -- presenting the same talk in multiple venues is not normally considered a problem . Other fields lie somewhere in between . I think that , regardless of the ethical dilemma , the issue is that the more likely you are to have overlap between the two audiences who will hear your talk , the less you want to give the same talk -- even if it 's ethical to do so . At the very least , you should have enough new material in the later talk that it 's worth the audience 's time to hear the second version if they 've already heard it at the first conference .
Yes , this is a problem . You should not submit the same work to more than one journal at a time . This applies regardless of language - merely being in a different language does not make the actual work unique . Further , consider some practical considerations - a simultaneous submission means that you 'll have to go through peer-review for both papers and ( assuming you do n't get caught and summarily rejected ) presumably have to make some changes . What if the changes do n't align ? Now you do n't have two translations of the same paper , but two subtly different papers in two languages . If you 're genuinely interested in making your paper more accessible , either post a translation online , or wait until one paper is accepted and then approach a journal in the other language about posting a translation .
You can certainly mention a professor and his/her research in your statement of purpose as long as it is genuine . This can show that you are a ) familiar with the school/the department and its faculty and b ) you have a good understanding of the field and your interests within it . There is certainly nothing wrong with saying ' One of the reasons that I chose this school is because Prof. X 's work on XYZ is very interesting , and I would love the opportunity to learn from him/her and his/her work . ' Do n't , however , try to name-drop for the sake of it . You should also make sure that you do a little research to make sure that that professor is actually still going to be doing work during your time at that school . It looks kind of bad if you say ' I really want to work with Prof. A , ' but Prof A is going to be on sabbatical or something like that . This kind of information is not always readily available . In short , do n't be afraid of mentioning a prof if you really mean it and are really excited , but do n't look up someone from each school you are applying to for the sake of putting a name in your paper .
TL ; DR : in France you have to find first the supervisor , then you apply for a funding . If you have a funding of your own , you have to find a supervisor to be admitted . In both cases : you need the supervisor first . There is various things to know when you apply for a PhD in France : It is forbidden to be a PhD without having funding . In France a PhD student is considered both as a student and an employee . The funding can be a state funding , an industrial funding , a funding on a research contract ( either from a national funding agency or a company ) , or you can also do your PhD while working elsewhere ( some teachers in secondary schools are doing their PhD this way ) . Industrial funding and research contract are basically given to the supervisor , who can choose alone amongst all candidates . So for PhD with those fundings you have to contact directly the targeted supervisors . State funding is given by a committee to a bundle ( candidate , subject ) , this means that a professor , with a subject , has to find a candidate and then propose to the committe this candidate on his subject . Then the candidate is on his own : ( s ) he will generally have to send an application letter , with a reference letter from the supervisor , and if ( s ) he is shortlisted , ( s ) he will have to make a short presentation ( either on location or using skype or a similar service ) . Last case : you are funded on your own ( job , external funding for foreigners ) . Even in this case , the procedure is that you find the supervisor , then you apply .
I 've have multiple papers under review at the same time in the same journal for various reasons ( e.g. , special issues , highly preferred venue , standard community venue ) . When the papers were linked , we made sure to request the same editor -- otherwise , you 're just making life more difficult for the editors because the editors of the two papers will have to coordinate in any case . When the papers were not linked ( and I 've had utterly unrelated papers simultaneously under review , since they came from different collaborations ) , we selected an appropriate editor to request independently , which might or might not turn out to be the same . The key principle here is to remember that your selection of an editor is only your personal recommendation to the journal . Just like a statement preferred reviewers , the journal has no particular compulsion to abide by your selection . If they think a different editorial distribution makes sense , they will assign it that way instead . Thus : do n't handicap a paper unnecessarily by recommending a suboptimal choice of editor .
Work experience normally refers to internships or part-time jobs you 've done with companies besides your university , or actual employment positions in your university such as working in the library or grading papers . Research experience is related to academics , so it should be treated as such . I know you get paid for it , but it 's used to augment your undergraduate experience and thus adds value to your degree .
No , there is no need to . Uploading to Arxiv is more than enough . Your Google scholar profile finds all arxiv papers and will notify those who follow your work about your new paper . You can also add a link to the arxiv PDF in your university and personal page . That way , you will only have to update the arxiv version of your paper , without having to ever update again your personal and university webpage . For academia.edu and researchgate I would never bother to upload PDFs . If someone is interested in your work and can not google your name to find the arxiv uploaded version , then I doubt you will get anything meaningful or useful ( e.g. , citation , collaboration ) from such a person , no matter where you upload your papers .
I do n't know about combinatorics in particular , but I did get a PhD from one of Carnegie Mellon 's other interdisciplinary programs ( Pure and Applied Logic ) ; I was offered the choice of whether my PhD would officially be in the program name or in " Mathematical Sciences " , and was advised to choose the latter . If you 're PhD is in something other than " Mathematics " or an obvious synonym , and you want to get hired as mathematics faculty , there are two concerns that might come up : Do you know enough math , broadly speaking , to be a good colleague ( for instance , be out outside member on thesis committees , to talk to people , and so on ) ? Can you teach introductory courses ? I do know of people with degrees called " Logic " where these concerns were raised about hiring them . In the cases I know , someone was around to address those concerns , but it might be a disadvantage in departments where no one in the faculty was familiar enough with the program to address them . ( On the other hand , places where no one is familiar with your program are n't as likely to hire you anyway . ) With a degree in something as clearly mathematical as combinatorics , I think the first concern is unlikely to be an issue . The latter might be , especially if those programs do n't necessarily include any TA-ing/teaching of intro calculus courses , but this is also a concern that can be preempted ( for instance , by making sure to pursue enough teaching experience as a grad student ) .
" All other things being equal , " you 'd rather have more references from graduate than undergraduate professors . Your situation is such that " all other things are n't equal . " Apparently , you did n't get to know any of your masters professors well , and only took one course from each . Whereas you had undergraduate professors that you took two to three courses from , and they know you better , and may be in a better position to assess your research potential . Taking the inference a step further , you may have done your most interesting/significant research as an undergraduate , while your master 's work " topped up " your academic knowledge . If that 's the case , you probably ought to " go with what you 've got , " and get more referrals from the ( undergraduate ) professors that you did more work for , or at least got to know better . I would rather have " glowing " recommendations from undergraduate professors than " lukewarm " recommendations from graduate professors . If all else fails , try to take a second course with one of your graduate professors so the s/he can get to know you better , and give you a recommendation .
Is it generally true that mathematics professors do not / can not engage in consulting work external to their universities ? No , it 's not true . Doing external consulting may be less common among mathematics professors than among faculty in certain other academic disciplines , but it 's fairly common nonetheless . The professor would need to make sure that the consulting arrangement they are entering into is compatible with their other responsibilities , and specifically ( in connection to the theory you mentioned in the question ) the intellectual property policy of their university . While this issue is not something to be casually dismissed and certainly it can create difficulties in some cases , there are still many consulting opportunities in which the work the professor wants to do would not be in conflict with their institutions ' IP policies . Examples may include : The professor is on unpaid leave from their institution so the IP policy does n't apply . The professor is doing the consulting over the summer when they are not receiving a salary , so again the IP policy does n't apply . The consulting work is of a kind that generates deliverables such as code or data analysis that the IP policy does n't apply to . Specifically , in the U.S. all university IP policies I 'm familiar with apply only to patentable inventions and do not cover copyrightable content , which remains the property of the faculty member . If the consulting work does not require anything sufficiently creative that it might result in a patent , there is no conflict . ( Of course , the professor still needs to make the contracting company aware of their IP-related commitments and let the company make the decision about whether they are willing to take the risk of losing rights to a valuable patent . It seems likely that some companies in some situations would be averse to entering such an arrangement , as you described in the question . ) The consulting work is in an area sufficiently unrelated to the professor 's area of research that the IP policy does n't cover the work . The professor takes sufficient care to perform the consulting work on their personal time and without using any university resources . In that case , depending on the legal jurisdiction it may be the case that the IP policy can not legally apply to them , since courts in certain places have ruled that an employer does not own work their employee has created in the employee 's private time and using private resources , even when the employer claims otherwise . Finally , I was discussing consulting to commercial enterprises , but mathematics professors also engage in various other forms of consulting to governmental and non-profit organizations , where IP restrictions would usually not be much of a consideration . For example , in the U.S. it is quite common for professors to be invited to sit on panels for the National Science Foundation and other funding agencies . This is a form of paid consulting , although it usually does n't pay very much .
I 've worked on a few method development projects and I 'm of the opinion that it is a good idea particularly if the author is well-known and well-liked ( if they are a dick or you do n't like them , that 's a different story ) . The obvious reason why is because when they happened to see your paper going out for review which claims a " massive improvement " over previous methods , they are n't going to get upset at you and pull strings to make your life miserable . Furthermore , they might have insight whether or not the new method is useful or merely enhancing a particular error which makes it look good . The only instance where sharing the paper might be a bad idea is if they happened to be working on a similar improvement . Receiving the paper may motivate them to scoop you .
It 's quite common to submit proposals to multiple funding agencies at the same time . Most grant applications ask you if you are submitting the proposal to multiple funding agencies . You should note this in your application . If both agencies are interested in funding your proposal then they 'll coordinate awards so that you do n't get funded twice .
end question
start question
Differences between " Polytechnic " and " Technology " ?
Wikipedia has a <URL> . In essence : the term " polytechnic " comes from the French <URL> . Thus , a university with ' Polytechnic ' in its name is typically one that was influenced in its founding in some way by the French system . Today , however , there is generally no significant difference .
Taxation does depend very much on the country , as well as the type of award you receive . The amounts similarly vary from nation to nation . To give two examples : In the US , scholarships and fellowship stipends are taxed as ordinary income . However , in some cases , for externally funded awards , you need to be careful , as the university might not withhold taxes . In that case , however , you would need to make estimated tax payments , as you are still responsible for paying the tax " on time ! " Do n't forget that your tax burden may also include state and local income taxes , depending on where you live . Making matters even more complicated , cost of living fluctuates wildly : you 're probably better off with a $ 25,000 award in the midwest than a $ 35,000 or $ 40,000 award in New York City . In other countries , the system can vary . In Germany , for instance , graduate fellowships are not taxed , while " standard " graduate positions , which are considered employees of the state , are taxed . At the same time , however , people receiving the taxed positions receive health benefits and pay into the social security system . Stipend recipients are responsible for their own health insurance , and do not accrue time in the social security system .
Any skeleton/guideline to follow ? Actually the links you provided are excellent and give a good basis to start with . There 's not much to add to it . Reporting styles of results sometimes differ from field to field so I think it 's best to examine the style used by some of the papers that you cite that are similar to yours . How do you make the difference between interpreting and reporting ? This is usually the hardest part . A good way to start is to simple make a bullet point list of observations only . For example : This is a green apple . Each apple weighs 50 g. Each box of apples weighs 2 kg . There are 20 boxes . This is going to be a boring , unexciting list . But this is exactly how it is supposed to be . Once you got the list , you can create a nice paragraph from it . Notice how tempting it is to just make the short calculation noting how many apples there are , but no ! This is an interpretation and not merely an observation . There are , however , some " obvious " one-word interpretation that sometimes can go to the results section . For example , you may point out that the apple is a Granny Smith cultivar . Or you may note that a 2 kg box is a standard size box . These immediate interpretations should be obvious to the reader , so he will not have to ask " why " when reading . The reason for putting these in the " Results " section instead of the " Discussion " section is that they may distract from the main point you are trying to convey in the full interpretation of the data .
Speaking from my experience in Australia -- but I think it holds for most Commonwealth countries . A Bachelor of Arts ( or Science ) is 3 year degree , purely by coursework . Though potentially some coursework units may have large research components . You can get into it based on results from high school or some other tertiary entrance exam . The adding of Honour means the the addition of an extra year , after completion , where you do some coursework , but the focus is on research , you produce somehting which might be called a Honours thesis or similar . Depending on the university , students doing honours may count as post-graduate students , or not ( or somewhere between ) . It may make sense to think of the Honour year as being a separate qualification -- it is often possible ( if unusual ) to get into Honours at a different university to where you completed your bachelors . To get into this Honours pseduo-course , you need to have done well on your units in your bachelors . At the completion your honours results are graded and you get back a result like " 1st Class " , " 2nd Class Division A " , " Second Class Division B " ; There are more classes , but I 've not heard anyone say they have them ( presumably because it does n't sound good to say I have 3rd Class Honours , and/or they do n't stick around in academia . ) . Honours 1st class is considered roughly equivalent to having done a Masters , as far as getting in to a PhD goes . Thus the Honours pseudocourse can be used as a " shortcut " by high achieving students to get into a PhD a year earlier than they would if they did a Masters -- at the cost of a fair bit of stress usually , because a lot of Honours projects are as hard as Masters projects , and they tend to have a lot of coursework at the same time . Away from BA and BS , other undergrad degrees may have " built-in " honours . Bachelors of Engineering tend to have them ( Particularly if the B.E. would make you a accredited engineer , without having to go on and do Masters ) . In these cases Everyone does a research based Bachelors Thesis , but only those who have it graded above a certain cut off , and who meet overall coursework grade cutoffs get awarded a Honours classification , and get Honours on their certificate .
In general , I refrain from initiating any physical contact other than handshakes or " congratulatory " gestures such as high-fives or fist bumps . This allows the student to control the level of interaction if they so choose . My suspicion about what would be considered " acceptable " is that it varies widely from country to country , depending on what is considered an " acceptable " level of contact between strangers or professional colleagues . For instance , in Muslim-dominated countries , the " side-hug " mentioned in the answer -- or even shaking of hands -- between a male boss and a female subordinate , or vice versa , would likely be frowned upon ! Similarly , in other countries , I could see how a " side-hug " could be within the realm of acceptable contacts ( although still on the somewhat " iffy " side ) .
I think this is especially common in the medical literature . The objective , as you said , is to make sure readers can find the exact same product you used to get the full picture and for the purpose of evaluating or reproducing your work . Even in the " Internet age " , there are many reasons why one might need the physical location of a manufacturer in order to access their products . Here are a few that come to my mind : Many companies are not easy to locate with a google search and I know several that do n't have a public website or any sort of web presence at all . It might feel silly to write " we used Gmail ( Google , Mountain View , California ) " but there are many businesses that are not as publicly known . If you 're looking in an online phone book you still need to know where to look for . Companies might have many subsidiaries and divisions that could be developing products and prototypes without the other ones necessarily knowing about it , especially prototypes . Contacting the wrong one might lead to a dead end . Due to different regulations ( and that is especially true for drugs and medical equipment ) it can be that the same company is selling different products depending on the location . The exact composition of a drug or the firmware might differ depending on where the products were sold . It actually sometimes happens that two completely unrelated companies providing the same type of services or goods that are active in separate countries have the exact same name . Confusing , I know . Companies disappear , get bought , change name , etc. . Knowing the location at time t might help locate the new entity that could deliver the product . This being said " the journal wants it " is a valid argument , if it 's effectively the case and " everybody does it this way " is not that bad of a reason when it comes to article structure and writing practices . Be creative on the content , not on the form . I personally do n't feel brackets with ( Nvidia Corporation ) " break the flow " less than ( Nvidia Corporation , Santa Clara , California ) . Plus it brings back good memories of time spent in California .
An MBA is a professional degree designed for students who will go to work in industry and not pursue further graduate study or research . Students in MBA programs typically all take the same courses in lock step with very few electives or options . It generally is n't possible to specialize in a particular area in an MBA program . In that sense , an MBA program is very much like medical school or law school and totally unlike graduate study in engineering and the arts and sciences . Students in MBA programs usually have several years of full time experience working in low level corporate jobs after completing a bachelors degree . Because they have had some exposure to the corporate/business world , the courses that they take draw on that experience . In comparison , the Master 's in Management is a professionally oriented degree program aimed primarily at students who have just completed a bachelor 's degree . These programs tend to be more theoretical simply because students have less practical experience to draw on . Many business schools also offer professionally oriented masters degrees in more specialized technical areas ( e.g. a Master 's degree in mathematical finance or operations research or analytics . ) PhD programs in business schools are typically very separate from MBA programs and the students in the PhD program will typically take very few if any courses with the MBA students . PhD students take more theoretical course work , take advanced courses in an area of specialization ( e.g. accounting , finance , marketing , etc. ) take course work in research methods , and then conduct research and write a dissertation . If you 're just completing a bachelor 's degree and want to get a masters and go to work in industry , than a Masters in Management is the typical path . If you 're just completing a bachelor 's degree and want to become a business school professor then a PhD program would be appropriate . If you 've had several years of experience in business and want to move up in management , then an MBA would be the typical path for you .
1 ) Psychologists on Psychologists : Helmreich , Robert L. ; Spence , Janet T. ; Beane , William E. ; Lucker , G. William ; Matthews , Karen A. ( 1980 ) , " Making it in academic psychology : Demographic and personality correlates of attainment " . Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , Vol 39 ( 5 ) , Nov 1980 , 896-908 . ABSTRACT : Examined personality , demographic characteristics , publication rate , and citations to published work in a sample of 141 male and 55 female academic psychologists . Reputational rankings of their graduate schools and current institutions were significantly related to citations , as were components of achievement motivation . Mastery and work needs were positively related to citations , whereas competitiveness was negatively associated with the criterion . Large sex differences were found in citations , with men receiving significantly more recognition and producing at a higher rate . A model of attainment in psychology is proposed , and possible explanations for the differential attainment of the sexes are explored . ( 26 ref ) ( PsycINFO Database Record ( c ) 2012 APA , all rights reserved ) 2 ) A more general review paper that includes a discussion and literature on psychological factors : Fox , M. F. ( 1983 ) . " Publication productivity among scientists : A critical review " . Social Studies of Science , 13 ( 2 ) , 285-305 . available at <URL>
paper = article : In the academic meaning of the words , papers and articles refer to the same thing : a published piece of writing . The term is used for journal papers or journal articles , which means they have been published by a journal , but also for less traditional publications , including self-publication ( " Dr. Who just published a great paper on the intricacies of time travel on his webpage " ) and e-print repositories such as arXiv ( " check out the latest paper by Galileo on arXiv , that guy has mad ideas ! " ) . Some journals have different categories of " articles " , and differentiate between letters , communications , reports , reviews , and full papers ( sometimes abbreviated as just " papers " ) . In usage I have seen , paper ( or article ) used as a generic term covers all of those : you would say , for example , that " letters and full papers are two types of articles " . A preprint ( more commonly used without the hyphen ) refers to the distribution , in advance of formal publication , of something that will be published in print . The preprint may differ from the final publication . Preprint status does not always indicate that the work has been formally accepted for publication . It just means the authors intend to publish it in a more formal venue ( journal , book , etc. ) but wanted to distribute by other means beforehand ( preprints used to be distributed to colleagues as photocopies , but are now mostly circulated by email or repositories ) . A manuscript is , in the New Oxford American Dictionary 's words , " an author 's text that has not yet been published " . Any piece of writing that you have not published in any way ( but intend to ) is a manuscript . A draft is the same as a manuscript , except that it insists on the unfinished state of the manuscript . Summarizing , I could say : Here 's the draft I 've been working on , please amend it with your corrections . Once we have done this final round of revision , I will upload the manuscript to the editor 's website , and we can start circulating it as a preprint to colleagues whom you think may be interested . Once it is accepted and published , we 'll just send them the published version of the paper for their records .
First of all , you need to make it exceedingly easy for the Luddites to put their material online . If it is hard to do , or if it takes a particular skill other than " go to this website and click a few links " than you 're going to have a hard time ever convincing them to get onboard . If they absolutely need to be trained , you may have to have a mandatory training session where they get their first set of lectures or whatever online ( but do n't expect any other forthcoming material to be posted without more prodding -- then again , they may see the light if it is easy enough and they can see the results online ) . I 'd suggest one or more of the following four suggestions , in order of preference : Ask for student volunteers to help these faculty put their material online . Whether these are TAs for the class , or paid/hired students not already assigned , or strictly volunteers is up to you and budgeting concerns . You may have to continue this process for subsequent classes if the faculty are n't willing to learn how to do it themselves . Automate the system ( which goes back to my original comment ) . If paper is involved , have someone set up a scanner to handle loose-leaf material , or via a photocopier/scanner . If it is just soft-copy document uploading , this can be automated with a drop box on a shared drive -- just drag materials into the box and it ends up online . This wo n't make for a particularly organized system , but at least the material will be online . Wait them out and let attrition work its magic . You may always have reluctant faculty , but as older Luddites retire you should find this less of a problem . If there are only a few faculty that do n't want to come onboard , this is definitely the easiest method , and you 're really not losing too much by waiting . Make posting the material mandatory . I can almost guarantee this wo n't be possible for tenured faculty , but maybe you can provide some incentive rather than simply encouraging them to put the material online . I do n't think you 'll get very far with a simple plea for coming into the 21st Century -- if they are refusing to adopt , they probably feel they are too busy , or do n't like the whole idea of it .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
Two small additions to the other answers : First , I have rarely seen " submitted to " , but more often simply seen " submitted , " with no journal or conference listed . The reason is simple : where you 've submitted to makes no difference , since anybody can get any sort of trash rejected by a top journal . For a " to appear , " however , the venue should always be included , since it means you 've passed the standards of peer review for that publication . Second , there is a third category that I have occasionally seen , " in revision . " For areas that have a very slow review process , this can be useful for distinguishing that a publication has passed at least one round of peer review , even though it is not yet " to appear . " It 's still a pretty weak distinction from " submitted , " however , so I would n't advise using it except for occasional edge cases with high-visibility journals .
If there is a standard in academic typesetting  and typesetting in general , it is to use a narrow space , i.e. : With space : 10 mA ; without space : 10mA ; with narrow space : 10 mA The most suitable Unicode character for this is U +202 F ( narrow no-break space ) . This is also the default setting of the LaTeX packages <URL> and <URL> . The <URL> says ( p. 47 ) : a space is always used to separate the unit from the number . However , it does not specify the width of the space . But at least , using no space at all is against this standard . As for readability , I am not aware of any studies on this , so I can only give you my informed opinion . Consider the following examples ( I use a picture to ensure that we are seeing the same thing and to be able to employ justified text ) : <URL> In the first sentence , no space is used . This makes it take longer to identify the unit as it merges with the numbers , in particular with long numbers . In the second sentence , a full space is used . Units are now read as individual words because that 's how our brain is trained to read full spaces . As our brain is also trained to process words one by one , it will first read and process 192.34 and then continue with K . In the third sentence , where narrow spaces are used , our brain is more likely to process the 192.34 K in one chunk and we also do not have the same problems as in the first sentence . Finally , consider the list in the second and third sentence ( 1  , 2  and 3  ) . With a full space it becomes more difficult for our brains to group what is written into individual items , as , e.g. , the first  has almost the same distance from the preceding 1 than from the 2 that follows it . With a narrow space , this is easier . Thus , using a narrow space is a compromise to have number and unit to be seperated less than words but more than the individual digits of the number .  Some journals do not seem to care to make their publications consistent in this respect .
If I understand your question , you 're asking whether statements in an introduction or conclusion which summarise fully-referenced , more detailed statements in the body of your writing should be referenced too . The answer is the same as for anything , regardless of where it 's found in something you write : If a statement is your own conclusion based on information you have drawn from outside sources , then as long as you note what information you got from which sources by referencing correctly within the body of the document where you explain how you came to your conclusion , you do n't need to reference this conclusive or interpretive statement ; it 's the result of your own mental process . On the other hand , if the statement is information from another source , you must reference it . Whether or not it 's heavily summarised or you intend to expand on the statement , with references , later , the simple rule of referencing everything that did not originate with your own work still applies . As a rule , though , I 'd advise you to check with your teacher , tutor , student advisor , TA , lecturer , or whomever else applies . What I explained above is technically the right way to do it , but it would n't surprise me if some institutions at least are n't quite that strict .
It seems to me that there are several advantages ; none of these are suitable for every student . It 's up to you whether enough of them apply to you , to make it worth doing a taught PhD : A PhD with a bit of coursework in the first year will help those who are crossing over into a discipline that they 're not already deeply embedded in : it will give you some hand-holding through the things you 'll need to know but do n't yet ; it should ( if taught well ) also teach you some extra research skills ; it will give you some indication as you progress as to how well you 're doing , compared to how well you should be doing if you 're going to finish it will allow you to explore different aspects of the field , to help you finalise your thesis topic it may , depending on the country and institution , give you an intermediate degree at the end of the taught section , such as an MRes , which will count for something even if you then do n't go on to do the full PhD it lessens the culture-shock for those going straight from fully-taught study to a research degree .
I do n't have any private job experience in Scotland or Netherlands and I do n't know your conditions as well , so I do n't really know what suit 's your conditions indeed . I am focusing on your first question here . Full-time learning is mostly suitable for the candidates who are not aiming to work outside the university . For instance , students who are able to stay full-time in the university and do their academic chores are more encouraged to apply for these discipline . Part-time learning is more suitable for those who want to work outside the university as well as attending their classes and conducting their research at the university . This type suits the people who work outside academia and are not willing to be at the university all the time . Please note that , some universities hire or pay their research students while they are studying at the university . This does not mean that those students are part-time students because they are simply working or hired at the university . These are full-time students who are doing academic work . These are different that part-time student who works in industry . As you mentioned in your question that you are interested in several courses , it comes to my mind that it does not make any difference to you to study in a specific area ; so this eases your way to find a program for yourself . As an instance , in a university , one department may not offer part-time degrees to the applicants while the other department may offer various taught and research part-time programs that the prospective student can easily choose one for himself . However , as far as you are seeking for a degree with the insight to your professional career , I encourage you to choose the course and degree which helps you with your professional responsibilities and your interests . Do n't run , Walk ! Please choose a part-time program wisely ; Please carefully read the regulations of the programs you are applying to and check the minimum requirements for part-time degrees at the university where you want to study . These programs may require some extra application process , interviews or documents for their applicants . The duration of the part-time degree is longer than a full-time degree . For instance , a masters part-time degree will have two year duration compared to one year full-time study . Please note that the duration of the degrees varies from one department to another and one country to another . If you are going to do research in your part-time program , please note that some part-time degrees require their students to do full-time research during their studies . I mean , you have applied to a part-time degree . Although you are allowed to study for a longer period of time ( for instance part-times may take classes in four semesters while full-times are allowed to finish their classes in two semesters ) but the course requires you to spend two semesters full-time research as well . So , please check whether these conditions exist or whether you are eligible for such programs or not . You may need some scholarships/funding to support your studies financially . Then you should double check whether the scholarship covers the part-time degrees or not . To my best of knowledge , some scholarships require the students to attend only full-time courses . Check the cost of the program you are applying for . Although it seems that the full-time students will pay lower fees compared to the full-time students , but , keep in mind that the total payment of both disciplines may be the same and only the part-time student may pay lower amounts of money in each semester . On the other hand , there may be some part-time degrees which are due to higher educational fees . As far as the rules are different in different countries and departments , please check the financial part carefully before you apply for any degrees . Check the accommodation and housing for part-time students as well . Although it seems that you are staying with your family ; if you are seeking to stay in another city where you are working and in this city , you are seeking a part-time degree ; please check whether they offer housing to the part-time students or not . Part-time degrees may only allow you to work inside the city where the university is located . So , if you are working outside the city , check the regulations of the university and see if you can manage to attend your classes regularly or not . Part-time learning differs from distance learning and online degrees . These disciplines have different regulations and their degrees may have lower or higher values in the industry you are working . As far as you need your degree for your professional career , make sure which type suits you well and do not think these degree-types are the same . Pay Attention to your studies too . Please do n't think that because you are working and you are a part-time student ; you are allowed not to study and not to attend your classes and fail the exams . Your role at the university is studying and res
ResearchGate does not support this feature , and has no current plans to do so . The only way to attach information to publications that ResearchGate must be added manually ( because ResearchGate fails to find them ) is to add that information manually for each publication as well .
As a student , you should not be required to fund equipment purchases yourself . Rather , it is your supervisor 's responsibility to work with you to scope a project that is within the funding that they wish to allocate to it . So if your supervisor wants to do a study with 15 people , your supervisor needs to have a sufficient budget to support it . Otherwise , you might end up , say , doing your work in simulation instead , which is much cheaper but less convincing in its results . Now , some students do buy small things themselves , especially if it is a low-cost " toy " that they want to play with themselves ( e.g. , a Raspberry Pi or a phone sensor pack ) and they do n't want to go through the delay and hassle of university purchasing . That 's an exception , however , and certainly not to be expected for a multi-user study .
Assistant and Associate Professors in the US can be formally addressed by " Professor " or " Doctor/Dr . " . There should be no offense given with either salutation , and either is appropriate .
Recently , I have had a very similar situation occur . The original paper discussed and explained the theoretical and practical aspects of a scientific technique that we adapted ; the second discussed and explained the programming automation of the technique . My advisor and co-author advised me at the time that each paper has got to be unique , taking the lead from the previous one and adding new information , techniques etc. . The journal that I published in are quite happy to take on a follow up article , just as long as it is sufficiently unique . So , in answer to your questions - it would most likely be a new paper for publication , make reference to the previous one , but place the emphasis on the new developments .
end question
start question
How to find / understand research in other languages when you do n't know that language ?
I would ask a colleague which does speak Thai , and ask him if there are any relevant Thai publications you need to be aware of . Ofcourse this colleague needs to be in the same field you are interested in . If he or she does not know of any relevant literature , this might indicate that you are not missing any relevant research . In addition , when you are looking for papers yourself , I would Google translate the titles of the papers , and if they seem interesting I would ask a native speaking colleague to translate the abstract . If it still is interesting then you ask your colleague to read the paper together with you .
You cite the original title , for the very reason you gave : to enable readers to find the original title . If your work is subject to guidelines , you should also check those . Usually , there is no point in giving a translation of the title as it does not contain any relevant information for the reader . Many citation styles do not mention the title of papers at all . I see two exceptions though : If a translation of the cited work into English exists ( but you worked with the French original ) , you can mention it in addition to the French title , e.g. with : [ actual citation ] ( translated into English under the title [ translated title ] ) If the title allows the reader to estimate what the source contains and whether they want to read it at all . In this case , you should arguably change your text such that it states in what way the citation is relevant for your work .
I would like to suggest that you read the speech <URL> on how to do great research . It 's one that I revisit every once in a while when my own scientific motivations are becoming unclear and need to be refreshed . In reading it , it 's important to keep in mind that the speech is thirty years old , and it is addressing things that happened even decades before that , so there are some jarring cultural gaps both with regards to science and with regards to the rest of society . Nevertheless , I find the central ideas to be still very relevant and valuable today . Importantly , Hamming distinguishes between things that you need to do in order to not fail and things that you need to do in order to have a real impact . These are very different , and it is important to distinguish between them . Important research is not the same as any of the " productivity metrics , " and the correlation is often a trailing indicator , not a leading indicator . For example : you say you are concerned that you are publishing only one paper per year . Step back and ask : why am I concerned about this ? You can publish lots of papers without ever doing anything really creative or important . You can have a full , tenured , and comfortable career that way . And honestly , that 's an OK choice to make . Some people go too far the other way , and strike out so deep into their own creative world that they can never publish their ideas , and they also fail to have an impact ( indeed , the most extreme of them we label cranks ) . In between is the dangerous and subversive world that Hamming describes , where you teeter back and forth on the balance between compliant conformity to metrics and egotistical creative rebellion . It does n't guarantee greatness , but it may be a fascinating ride , and it just might get you somewhere really worth going .
The honest answer is : you do n't know , and thus the phenomenon of <URL> . Sometimes this is simultaneous , and other times it is independent , as for example in the case of <URL> , which were apparently rediscovered and lost several times . Now , in practice , you must do a reasonable literature search , and part of the training that one receives over time is how to figure out how large a reasonable literature search is . It also helps to participate in conferences , where one becomes generally familiar with the thinking and knowledge in one 's field . Submitting one 's own work for peer review and presenting it in talks also offers opportunities to be informed of connections that one was not aware of . While this may seem embarrassing , in fact , as long as one is doing one 's reasonable due diligence , it is not worth being embarrassed about . This is because it 's very rare for rediscovery to happen in the same context . There 's a staggering amount of literature out there , but the number of problems is even bigger , and so any given specific piece of work may actually have startlingly few people in a position to conduct it . Thus , rediscovery in practice often heralds a new connection being made between fields . In this case , the recognition of rediscovery often opens up the " unaware " side of the interaction to be able to import and adapt results that were based on the prior work , thus rapidly advancing the new area in which those results are being applied . In short : do your due diligence , but do n't fear discovering you 've reinvented the wheel .
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
the most senior professor in the room contradicted me This may happen due to any reason . ( my supervisor was not there , he had an unexpected meeting ) Probably , your supervisor was clear about his decision regarding you and the rest was just a formality ( which actually happens in some cultures ) . So he chose to skip that ceremony ( and attend that unexpected meeting ) because he knew his decision would matter alone . What should I have done in the situation ? Assuming that your supervisor had a green signal in his mind for you ( which , of course , you can guess from the situation ) , you should have done nothing but tried to pass on with any reasonable negotiations . Even if the above assumptions are wrong , you should have still done the same , because , considering your this statement : I said a certain method was rather new ( which it was ! ) Especially , which it was ! part , nothing can go wrong . Of course , the reasonable negotiations would involve , you trying to defend that with solid arguments and references , while at the same time humble enough to listen to his criticism and show respect to get along .
In order to answer this question , we need to define some magnitudes of errors . A small error does not affect the conclusions and if the manuscript was accepted as is could be fixed in the proof stage before the manuscript goes to press . A minor error does not affect the conclusions but requires too many changes to be made that it could not be fixed in the proof stage . A substantial error affects the conclusions and would require the manuscript to be re-reviewed . If you have found a substantial error , you need to contact the editor and request the manuscript be pulled from the review process . You do not want to waste the time of the editor and reviewers . A small error can either be ignored or reported to the editor if you think that the correction will help save the reviewers time . Minor errors are the real problem . There is no easy way to tell the editor/reviewer what is wrong , but an unclear manuscript is likely to get negative reviews . I would suggest contacting the editor and explaining and apologizing for the problem . The real question should be how did you find the error ? What are you doing looking at a manuscript after it has been submitted ?
What do you want to do with your life ? University is one way of getting to some of the answers . Trade school or apprenticing is another , if you think that 's closer to what you want to spend your life doing . It 's also legitimate to say you do n't know yet -- in which case you need to decide whether starting classes would help you decide what interests you , or if doing something else for a year makes more sense . I knew what I wanted to study ( or thought I did ; turns out I was close but not on the mark ) , but even so I decided to take a year off before college ; I needed a bit of maturation time , and to switch from being the youngest in the class to being one of the older kids , for my own comfort . Spent the year doing volunteer work in a hospital ( electronic repair , " biomedical engineering " ) , which was certainly educational in the general sense , helped build my self confidence , and may actually have helped my college application stand out from others . " ... There are nine and sixty ways / of constructing tribal lays , / And every single one of them is right ! " -- Kipling
Google yielded <URL> : Book/article titles and names written in Latin-based scripts ( French , Spanish , German , etc. ) can be cited with only minor adjustments . Provide a translation of the title in square brackets . Do not translate names written in Latin-based scripts . Titles and names written in non-Latin scripts ( Chinese , Arabic , Russian , etc. ) must be transliterated before translating and citing . If you are uncomfortable transliterating material yourself , do n't guess -- get help ! Titles should be transliterated and translated into English . Names should be transliterated ( not translated ) and arranged in " Western " order , e.g. , ordered by surname in reference list . ( Follow the link to see examples )
As Aleksandar says , you do need to learn the terminology in order to search effectively for articles . And in fact , you 'll need to know the terminology in order to understand those articles . When I 'm exploring a new subject area , I do n't start with the journal articles ; I start with books , web tutorials , etc. , to get the basics . For learning the terminology , I also suggest reading the relevant articles in Wikipedia or Scholarpedia . They will also have links to journal articles ; get hold of those articles and see what keywords they use . Anytime you find a useful article , note the keywords , and what journal it 's in . This will help you find other useful articles , and places where you might submit your own articles in future . Also , your college librarian may be able to help you figure out some of the keywords to use . They usually know a little about a wide variety of topics , at least enough to have some ideas of what search terms might be useful . If you set up an appointment , they may be able to spend some time with you , helping you find some sample articles and working with you to figure out a good search strategy .
I would ask a colleague which does speak Thai , and ask him if there are any relevant Thai publications you need to be aware of . Ofcourse this colleague needs to be in the same field you are interested in . If he or she does not know of any relevant literature , this might indicate that you are not missing any relevant research . In addition , when you are looking for papers yourself , I would Google translate the titles of the papers , and if they seem interesting I would ask a native speaking colleague to translate the abstract . If it still is interesting then you ask your colleague to read the paper together with you .
Yes , it is possible to cross over between different fields following the PhD-level studies . However , in general , this tends to be more applicable to " interdisciplinary " fields that can fall into multiple disciplines . For instance , the engineering department I studied at hired people with PhD 's in applied mathematics and physics , because their research fields -- in fluid mechanics and interfacial science , respectively -- meshed well with the research interests of the department . To give a counterexample , however , it will be much harder to make the case for a high-energy physics person to move into another discipline , just because it is so strongly identified with physics . Thus , if you have a PhD in a field such as mathematical economics or econometrics , it will be a lot easier to make the lateral shift . However , if you 're in a more " traditional " subfield , that move becomes much more challenging .
The PhD is generally awarded to students for their individual contributions to science . That 's the whole point . It 's not only about advancing science , but advancing science yourself . Otherwise , we would grant a new PhD to each member of a research team every time they had significant new results . Everyone is aware that it 's possible to be more productive in teams , but the degree itself is really only about what you can add . So the encouragement to work on your own is there to make it easier to demonstrate what you have personally added to the body of knowledge in your area . Distinguishing your work from another student 's could be very hard if you do everything together . This is the traditional view at the very least . All this being said , discussions , brainstorming , help diagnosing problems should all be a part of students working with others ( students , postdocs , researcher professionals , the supervisor , and other faculty ) . You just have to keep your work separate enough that you can make an easy case for yourself when it comes time to defend your dissertation .
Plagiarism and self-plagiarism sound similar , but are importantly distinct things . Plagiarism is if you use other people 's work as your own . You deprive them of credit and claim credit for yourself which you do not deserve . Self-Plagiarism does not deprive the author ( you ) from credit , but the offence here is that the the " present-you " claims credit that the " past-you " already collected . This is an assessment offence because you would get a double mark for a single piece of work . You could , of course , quote yourself ( properly cited ! ) , in which case , you would be perfectly fine , but you would only gain marks for new work done , which , in case of a full copy , would still be zero . However , in a sensible school policy it should not be punishable for plagiarism in the conventional sense , since it was you in the first place who wrote the text . As a student , I have reused software libraries I wrote in other coursework , properly cited , of course . It would be a waste of time to redo mechanical work , and permitted me to get much further . With an essay , nothing stops you , of course , to build upon existing writing ( properly cited ) to develop your argument further .
Giving the impression that you might be a person who does n't stick around for long can indeed be a negative when job hunting ( although there are exceptions ) . I suppose conceivably it might be a problem for some PhD admissions scenarios . But I ca n't imagine it would affect you when applying for a masters . They just want to be confident that you will stay for one year -- and the life story that your CV tells will not throw that into question ! I once read about a musician , top in his instrument , with a successful concertizing career , who went back to school to study medicine , and then after ten years practicing medicine successfully , went back to concertizing . From that we see that if you 're good , you 're good , and that 's what people care about . One of the things that makes you good is that you are not afraid to follow your nose , and pursue things you want to learn more about . You do n't need to hide that .
It 's an old adage that " You do n't truly understand something unless you can explain it completely to someone else " . Writing notes effectively forces you to explain the topic to yourself . Oftentimes , when writing over notes from a class or from what you 've read , the simple process of re-explaining it to yourself will clarify points that may have been confusing earlier . For this purpose , I try not to write notes as I 'm reading , but rather I 'll read a section and them summarize that in my notes . Having read the full picture , I can then ensure that my understanding of the topic is more complete , and my notes should reflect that . On a different note entirely , repetition enhances retention , and writing notes is at the very least doubles the number of times you 'll see it ( once in the book , and once as you write it ) , which should help your remember it that much better .
Let 's pretend that it 's not an academic field that you are passionate about , but instead something like <URL> or <URL> or <URL> . Seriously , pretend that when you are talking with non-practitioners , that every technical word that comes out of your mouth is replaced with something like " ' Jaques Israel ' Pink Latticino Swirl " or " 1820 Georgian British Livery button . " Would you feel upset by their disinterest then ? Depending on the answer to this question , I think that there are two ways to approach the issue : If you would still feel upset , then it 's not so much that you want the people close to you to be button enthusiasts too , but that you want them to be excited for you and supportive of your enthusiasm . A way that you can address this in your relationships is by talking less about the subject that you care about , and more about your little triumphs and setbacks in pursuing it . For example , if you are elated because you have just figured out a difficult problem , tell about your struggle and your joy , or about how it can affect your relationship with your fellow button collectors , but do n't try to explain the problem or the solution . If you would not still feel upset , then it seems that you feel there is something important about your field that means that non-practitioners should care about what is going on in it . In this case , you again need to drop the technical vocabulary , but instead talk about how the ideas that you encounter may come to affect the world that we all live in or our understanding of it . A personal example : some of my synthetic biology work focuses on the study of translational regulation of Sindbis replicons via calibrated flow cytometry ( " 1851 Goodyear Patriotic Lady Liberty Button " ) , but I talk about it with non-practitioners in terms of the ways it could make vaccination easier , safer , and more accessible . I either case , in my personal experience , the core of the solution is to drop the technical language and talk about whichever human dimensions it is that you really want the other person to engage with .
It depends on what that new contact is for . If it is for something completely unrelated to anything that you are working with professor A , then I 'd suggest replying to both with a thank you message and then separately contacting Prof B. If , instead , the work is , even sidely related to whatever you are doing with Prof A , add everyone in your emails . Transparent communication is key in any healthy relationship . If you are worried about spamming Prof A with relatively non-related content you can always contact Prof A separately and directly ask him if he/she wants to keep being CC 'd in the email chain , there is no problem with that . These Profs , they are just people , treat them like people ! . Do n't overthink it , as StrongBad says .
Let me answer your question by means of an example . In my on-going research I am using a notion called " Schlichting completion " which is originated from a paper written in German by a mathematician called Schlichting . I ca n't read German , but using a dictionary , I 've found some clues about this notion in his paper . So I cited this paper , even though I have only read about one page of it . The reason is sometimes we have to cite a paper , because some fundamental notion has originated from that paper and we have to give credit to the person who invented that notion . Other reasons for citing papers are : They have a nice review of the subject and/or contain relatively a comprehensive list of references related to the work . They have done some parallel or complementary works . They have some results which are used in my papers . They contain reasons which motivate my work . For example , they ask or suggest a problem which is addressed in my work . They give more examples , applications and/or ideas related to my work . etc. . So you do not have to read all contents of a paper before citing it . But make sure it is relevant , useful , some how necessary , interesting and/or important paper with respect to the work you are presenting in your paper . As a final remark , it is always nice to point out where in the paper you are citing is related to the discussion , for example specify the theorem number , the page number , etc. .
Your job , as an academic , is twofold : Do amazing research . Write it up and convey your results to other people . It sounds like you view ( 2 ) to apply only to others who are already in your field and are completely familiar with everything you 've done . You will find that , in the entirety of your field , there are probably just a few dozen people who are intimately familiar with every details of your field , and only a few hundred who are really familiar with what you do . Everyone else -- academic , layperson , village idiot -- will require an explanation , and you should do them the favor of explaining it to them . To more directly answer your question , you should always have two answers ready to the question " what do you do ? " : An elevator pitch , as described elsewhere . This should take ~ 15-30 seconds to say and would give a very high-level overview of your work . A more in-depth explanation , which would take about 3-5 minutes , which conveys what you do in more detail . Generally speaking , less time than that and you ca n't convey any useful information , more time than that and you 're giving too many details . After your in-depth explanation , either the person will say , " oh " , and move on , or they 'll ask questions and you can have an intellectual discussion . ( Note : the following point is somewhat debatable . ) I 've found for myself that it helps to visualize the person you 're talking to as paying your salary ; if you 're on a publicly-funded research grant ( i.e. , any governmental grant ) , their taxes are funding your research . It gives some perspective .
end question
start question
Should I use lighter or heavier paper for my printed dissertation ?
Lighter paper is usually slightly cheaper . And your finished book would be also lighter ( pretty much by definition ) ; this may or may not make a difference for when you carry it to the various offices/libraries as part of the process of finishing your degree . Heavier paper has a better " feel " when you flip pages ( think about the difference between a high quality hardcover book versus a cheap paper-back novel ) . It is a bit more resistant to wear and tear , and if you scan/photocopy pages it will be less likely to have the effect where the " next " page shows through . If the only publicly available copy of your dissertation would be the copy you submit , I would ask you to do would-be readers a favor and use heavier paper . But if you intend to publish your thesis ( take chapters and publish them as journal articles , or just put the entire thesis online for the world to see ) , then the lighter paper will save you a little money , and perhaps be marginally better on the environment .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
I also prefer to cite people by their full professional name whenever possible . Unfortunately , the only reliable way to find that information is to look for papers that they 've written under their full name ( whether first , or middle , or second-of-four , or what have you ) , while being very careful not to confuse authors with the same initial and last name . In some fields , there are reasonably reliable review/citation databases like Mathematical Reviews or DBLP that disambiguate authors by full name , affiliation , and so on . ( For example , DBLP successfully disambiguates me from another computer scientist that shares my first and last name . ) A slightly less reliable method is to find the author 's web page , or at least a web page at the author 's department with their name on it , such as a faculty roster or a class syllabus . But always remember that someone 's full professional name may not be the same as their full legal name or their full given name . As Anonymous Mathematician points out , some authors consistently and deliberately publish under their initials to protect against <URL> and other biases . The full professional names of these authors do not contain first names , only initials . A smaller number of authors ( and <URL> of <URL> ) publish under <URL> . Finally , authors from outside the US and Europe sometimes follow naming conventions that differ significantly from the modern European standard . ( For example , <URL> publishes under <URL> ; the reality is <URL> . He does n't go by either of those names in person . )
Check with the department/school first . In general for use of any work address : For something like receiving a single package , it should be fine . For something like receiving regular mail on a daily basis , no you should not do this . Besides the issues of policy , there is an increased labor of the recipient to deliver your personal mail . There may be delays . And , normally these boxes are in a partially-public area and subject to theft . I 've been in situations like this , so I got a PO box once and a private mailbox company another time .
There are several algorithms for scheduled repetition of information on flash cards . It 's possible that the software you liked uses one of these . This Wikipedia article on <URL> discusses Pimsleur 's graduated-interval recall and Leitner system , among others . This is n't the easiest topic to search for , but the Wikipedia article calls it " spaced repetition " , and includes a list of alternative names . That should help you do further research .
The challenge here is seems to be to ensure that if the reviewers do stumble across your thesis , then the failure mode will be penetrating blinding rather than accusations of plagiarism . It is my belief that with an " extract " paper like this , the thesis should be cited in any case . In most cases , there will be some connection to other portions of the thesis that could motivate such a citation ( e.g. , a motivation or an application ) . I also think that it is good to explicitly acknowledge the relationship to the thesis , e.g. , " This manuscript is based on work also presented in [ cite ] " , though the customs of your field may differ . Then you can appropriately blind the citation to the thesis , e.g. , " Ph.D. thesis , blinded for review . " This makes the relationship clear without violating blinding . At that point , you are preserving blinding to the best of your ability , and while a reviewer can certainly try to penetrate blinding if they want , you certainly wo n't run into any problems with misunderstanding about plagiarism .
First : the usual ( read : boring ) way of writing academic paper titles is indeed without verbs : A study of acquired growth hormone deficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in a subject with repeated head trauma or using gerunds ( which is a verb form , but in that case is used to construct a present progressive but a noun phrase ) : Understanding acquired growth hormone deficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in a subject with repeated head trauma However , I think include a verb is possible , and oftentimes makes the title much catchier and appealing to the non-specialist reader . For example , the titles I " quoted " above are of my own making , but the real title for <URL> ( and believe me , you want to read it ) is : Acquired growth hormone deficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in a subject with repeated head trauma , or Tintin goes to the neurologist There : even if I know nothing of " acquired growth hormone deficiency " and " hypogonadotropic hypogonadism " , I know what the paper is about . Now , if you use verbs in article titles , they are mostly going to be about established facts , generic questions , mathematical proofs , ... which means <URL> . Vitamin C enriched diet can prevent scurvy Minesweeper is NP-complete I particularly like to use questions in titles , as they make quite clear the problem you 're tackling : How hard is the measurement of quartz hardness ? A review of the commercial available apparatuses and their robustness How fast does the swallow fly ? Reexamining the impact of the bird 's geographical origin In a few cases , you would talk about a historical event , and then you 'd use the past tense : How World War One was won : the role of time travelers from the twenty-second century The CERN measurement was not a fluke : finally establishing the Higgs discovery at the 10-sigma level
I think your question is best rephrased as follows : If someone wants to use my dissertation , would it be ethical for me to ask for a payment ? Assuming you are asking about using the intellectual content of your dissertation , the answer is NO . Whether or not that someone is your employer is irrelevant . However , your actual presentation is protected by copyright , which for dissertations is normally completely held by the author . So if someone wanted to use your specific words and/or figures beyond the limits of <URL> , then you have the right to seek compensation .
I do n't see why your supervisor would be concerned about it , especially if it is relevant for your current research . But , to be sure , let them know about your previous work and emphasise how it is relevant ( and its importance ) to your current work . When you use your paper , make sure that you cite it as you would any paper .
Unless you have some reason to believe your revised paper has some serious additional problems , I do n't think you should worry . It may not be best practices for referees and editors to operate this way ( just looking to see whether the changes requested in the first report have been adequately completed ) . Ideally , the referee should check over carefully that none of the changes have introduced new problems , but that is n't always done . The referee and editor may have felt that the revisions were not really that big a deal . You may have been overthinking things when you made the changes ; they might have intended some considerably less sweeping editing . Or the referee may have seriously underestimated how much additional work and explication would be required to fix the problems the referee pointed out . The referee might even have told the editors that another round of refereeing would not actually be necessary ; if you made the changes , then the paper would be ready for publication . ( For several of the journals I have refereed for , this is one of the options in the recommendation menu of the reviewing software ; however , I also know , as an author , that this part of the review is not shared with the authors . )
It depends on your sentence construction . Use the past tense when talking about what Mendel did , since he did it 150 years ago ; use the present tense when talking about what the paper says , since the paper still says that now . For example , " Mendel did experiments on pea plants . His paper describes the results . "
Guidance is typically provided on when you 'd be expected to come up with your research question and your nomination of supervisor . Follow that guidance . If you have n't been told yet , then at least wait for the induction week to find out how things are organised . To kick off on choosing a dissertation topic and supervisor before induction really would be too early . Indeed , it would just look silly . So at the very minimum , do at least wait for two weeks . On our ( UK ) Masters courses , the selection of thesis topic and supervisor does n't happen until the second term . That 's because the taught modules in the first term gives the students the grounding in research skills and research areas , and an introduction to the staff , that enables them to make better decisions . If a student approaches a member of staff earlier than that , then a common response would be to note the interest , and to invite them to come back in the second term if they were still interested , but that there 's no commitment to do so , as lots of things change after the first term . An early approach does not necessarily make a good impression . It can look hasty . It can look like you 're not expecting to learn anything in the first term . And we do n't really do reserving of research-questions , as such . At least , merely being the first to propose a research question for your dissertation does n't give you priority in doing it . We work with students to get the best match of question , student skills , and supervisory support . If student B provides a better match than student A , then we 'll recommend that student B does that dissertation , regardless of whether A or B proposed it first . In recent cases where we have had overlaps between particular students , then the research area has has sufficient open questions that the students have each been able to do a distinct dissertation within it ( and indeed subsequently co-author papers together ) . So I do n't really recognise this notion of " missing out on a topic " . It takes quite a bit of subject familiarity to understand where the open questions are , and that 's one of the reasons why we wait until the second term before we get to topic and supervisor selection .
Between name changes , use names , transliteration , etc. , this is a rather common situation , and copyright forms are generally well designed to allow graceful handling of it . Most copyright forms that I have encountered include two separate places where you put a name : A list of the authors , in which you should write all of the names exactly as they appear on the paper . A signature line , in which an authorized signer ( in this case , yourself ) should place their usual signature , in the same form that you use it for other legal documents . There is no actual requirement that these names be identical , just that the authorized signer take legal responsibility for the assertions of the document , including asserting that the list of author names is appropriate . In fact , for some authors , their organization may not allow the author to be the person who signs the document ! Thus , if you write your name on the paper as " author " and you write your legal name for signature , this should be fine and appropriate . If , somehow , you encounter a form that does not make the distinction between the two names , then I would say it is highly likely that the organization issuing the form must be rather sloppy with regards to handling copyright in any case , and you should not worry about it .
I 'd go ( and did go ) with the 3rd person format , for a simple reason : It 's not a letter to that one person , nor a ( handwritten ) dedication/signed copy of a thesis . Instead it is something that is printed and which is ( hopefully ) read by more than this one person . So you talk to a broad audience about that person , hence 3rd person . Only if it were a handwritten , personal message in one particular copy , I would ever go with " you " . ( Another exception could be a dedication . In contrast to the acknowledgements the dedication is more specific and -- usually -- to one person or specific group of people , like family . In this case ' you ' might also make sense , because here you address them personally . )
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
I ca n't speak for all disciplines but in biomedical science this is generally considered an inefficient way of writing because the same sentence can be simplified to My reason ( s ) of shifting to biology from physics is ( are ) ... It 's also considered tacky but I probably have to attribute that to overuse and misuse . I will only use hypophora if the statement is highly unusual or seemingly illogical . This is a bad use because the statement is not dramatic : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling . Why ? Because ... Contrasting to : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling with a silver spoon in the kettle . Why ? Because ... is probably synchronizing better with the readers ' mental rhythm : " Huh ? Why the heck would you put a silver spoon in it ? " Then the following " Why ? " would serve a better role : to resonate with the readers . Surely enough in my own field nothing is dramatic enough for me to deploy this expression . Is " shifting from physics to biology " unusual enough to raise eyebrows ? I am not sure without too much context . My gut sense is perhaps not because I 'd categorize them both under the school of science and they do go together quite well . I 'd think " shifting to biology after spending 10 years studying physics " or " shifting to biology from classical string performance study " may probably deserve a " Why ? " Although , this is purely opinion . The part after the " Because ... " deserves attention as well . Make sure it 's followed by a very compelling reason , or your " Why ? " may be tainted with a taste of self-doubting or still-on-a-soul-searching instead of persuasion . In any case , expressions like such are unlikely very harmful if used sparingly . They also serve to inject some liveliness into the statement . I 'd consider using no more than once in a statement acceptable .
Yes , you should . First , most scientific software is terrible . I 'd be very surprised if yours is worse than average : the mere fact you know design patterns and the difference between recursion and loops suggests it 's better . Second , it 's unlikely you 'll have the incentive or motivation to make it better unless , or until , it 's needed by someone else ( or you in 6 months ) . Making it open gives you that incentive . Potential upsides : possible new collaborators , bugfixes , extensions , publications . Potential downsides : timesink ( maintaining code or fixing problems for other people ) , getting scooped . I 'll be clear : I do n't take either of these downsides very seriously .
This is clearly answered in the comments by @Stephan Kolassa ( making community wiki here just to post an answer for the question ) . Absolutely do NOT resubmit the paper ! If you do , you could end up having everything rejected . Contact the editors of the journal . 3.5 months is not such a long time for journal review in many fields ( unfortunately ) but it is sufficient time to warrant a quick friendly email to the editor asking what the progress is . Though you should not pester the editor , contacting them after 3.5 months seems perfectly reasonable . But keep a friendly/deferential tone . ( Do n't demand or complain ... just ask for info . ) ( And best of luck with the reviews . The first submission is always the most nerve-wrecking . If it works out , then great . If not , try not to sweat it too much . Rejection happens to nearly everyone . )
Whether the articles were paywalled or not , you should resolve your problem in three steps : Content license : check if you can find a version of the figure with liberal licensing terms . The paywalled version certainly does not fit the bill ... but you may find the same figure ( or a similar one ) in a pre-print version of the paper , under a different license . Obtaining permission for use : even if the content is not available under a free license , the publisher can grant you permission to reproduce the image . Nowadays , many publishers use a nice interface called Rightslink . If you look for example at this <URL> from the American Chemical Society ( which is far from being the most liberal of publishers ) , you can see a " Rights and permissions " link . In that particular example , the publisher will grant you reproducing of up to 4 figures of the paper on the internet , even on a for-profit website . Fair use : the fair use doctrine is a tricky , murky area of US copyright law . It 's not as wide as people generally assume . It has to be judged on a case-by-case basis : see <URL> and <URL> . See <URL> a notorious case from back in 2007 which is very close to your particular case . So , my own conclusion on fair use : it 's nice in principle , but unless you 're ready to hire a lawyer to double-check ( or get formal training on that ) , just play it safe .
A person qualified in another area ( such as a Phd in Physics ) who wanted to learn a new topic ( like computer game development ) would likely be welcomed on a full-time taught masters course . Full-time taught masters courses are often designed for those who want a change in direction and have the motivation to focus for the year to achieve that goal . There are people who want to be an astronaut , for example , who go back and learn new skills and knowledge and collect several degrees in the process . You do have to have an interregnum in employment , as a full-time course is exactly that . A lot of daily , weekly and monthly time needs to be devoted to it to learn all that material that others will have picked up in a three year Bachelor 's degree . I teach on such a course and we have many " career change " applicants who are well qualified in other fields . It is quite normal .
end question
start question
At what point in the writing process should one contact an academic book publisher ?
Book writing is a very thankless task -- it takes a long time , and the profits probably do n't make up for the cost of the time it takes you to write the book , unless you happen to write a textbook that becomes the default for a field . On the other hand , in some disciplines ( particularly in the humanities ) , a published book is practically a requirement for tenure , so you 'll want to make sure that you do things right . So my advice would depend upon where you are in the process . If you have n't already started writing , I 'd shop around a prospective outline of the book plus an introductory chapter or two before you get too much further . Then you 'll have a sense of what the publishers would be interested in . If you 've gotten a lot written , then you just need to start shopping the full idea around .
One-year master 's programs in computer science are usually terminal course-based degrees . They are essentially useless for a future research career , because they do not include time to do research . ( PhD admissions committees care about your research potential much more than your grades . ) Put brutally , professional MS programs exist for the sole purpose of trading tuition for the promise of a higher salary . The advantage of these programs is that successful graduates ( at least from my department ) actually do get higher salaries , and the program only takes one year . Also , if you work for a particularly enlightened employer , they may be willing to ( help ) pay your tuition . Two-year master 's programs in computer science are more research-based . In addition to classes , most research master 's students write a thesis describing original research ; that 's why it takes two years instead of just one . That 's also one of the advantages of the program ; you have more time to learn outside the formal classroom environment . You may also be able to secure funding through research or teaching assistantships ; these are almost unheard of for professional master 's students . The disadvantage is that if you 're not interested in research , the program takes two years instead of one . On the other hand , a research masters seems to have the same effect on salary as a professional masters , in part because it 's impossible to tell from a resume what type of MS you have .
When designing an assessment , it is helpful to look at something like <URL> . Since you mention B-school , I assume you are assessing a management or finance module . I always thought finance modules in particular should be open-book because of the extensive use of formulas and , as pointed out by F ' x and others , simply testing if the student can remember some information is not really the most interesting ( for teachers or students ) . Sticking with Bloom 's Taxonomy , remembering is the lowest form of assessment . If the students do not have to worry about getting the formulas right , then you can start something more complex . For example , have them make recommendations or create a plan for whatever the subject is . For example , if you are assessing leadership , give them a scenario with enough background knowledge and ask them to recommend ( with justification of course ) a particular leadership style for the situation . Remembering the standard leadership styles is not what is most important . What is important is that they can see a situation , assess the more important elements of that situation with respect to leadership , evaluate the pros and cons of each option , and decide which would be the best of all the choices to be used , which may include creating their own leadership style . Basically , for open book tests , move further up towards evaluation and creating and away from rote memorization .
Writing grant proposals with your supervisors is great experience and good for your career . Writing in partnership with more experienced researchers is a great to to get " apprenticeship " experience and to become introduced to key funding agencies , program managers , and the expectations and practices in interacting with them . Moreover , even if you move on before the grant is funded , you may find yourself able to work on the project via a subcontract to your new institution or else to help supervise students on the project from afar ( I certainly had this experience ) . Thus , if there is a good opportunity for doing collaborating with your supervisors on grant-writing , I highly advise doing so .
Unlike Dave and Henry , I am going to argue against the style , though not against inclusion of content serving the same purpose . Quite some time ago , I took to heart advice by <URL> on this , which can be found <URL> ( slide 21 ) , also echoed by <URL> in his <URL> . In essence it boils down to this : Do n't write The rest of this paper is structured as follows . Section 2 introduces the problem . Section 3 ... Finally , Section 8 concludes . That is most of the time only a waste of paper . Instead , use forward references from the narrative in the introduction . The introduction ( including the contributions ) should survey the whole paper , and therefore forward reference every important part . In a consequence , the position I take on this part of writing introduction is that while it is important to inform the reader about the structure of the paper so that he/she can take the path of few surprises and easily follow the discourse , it should be however done with style . Doing it in such a poor manner as " The paper is structured as follows ... " is simply bad literature . I would argue , that it is better to firstly , clearly state the contribution of the paper and then write up the paper 's plot summary leading from the introduction to the culmination of the paper in supporting the claimed contributions and discussion . I mention the references to the individual sections , and sometimes even deeper structural parts , only in passing , or include them in parentheses . On a similar note , regarding section , I took to heart the advice of <URL> on <URL> . Citing other authors , he suggest to simply drop the conclusions part from papers and put all the important conclusions into the introductory section . Well , unless there really is something important to say there . Since then , I conclude my papers either directly by a loose paragraph at the end of the section ( renamed usually ) , or if I feel like there is something important to say , by a standalone short section . However , never re-iterating what was done in the paper . The reader is anyway free to " rewind/relist " in the paper ( see the very last point by <URL> ) . P.S. . The links to homepages of the two guys include many more good tutorials on aspects of writing/research in computer science .
There is nothing wrong with the word " via , " and in fact I personally have a weakness for it : sometimes it just feels more elegant and specific than alternatives like " through " or " by means of . " I also , however , have a weakness for a lot of somewhat archaic phrases , due to spending a lot of my childhood reading old books . The general principle which I think academic writing should subscribe to is Orwell 's notion of " transparent prose , " in which the words are as clear as a window , letting one through to the ideas with minimal obstruction . Using too many unusual words , such as a lot of " via " and " thus " can be distracting , particularly for an international audience . Sometimes , though , a word is simply fit and elegant in its context , and there is no reason to avoid using it .
It sounds like a good thing to do , since the reviewing process for this journal is over . I would certainly appreciate it if I where the author of that article ( passed the frustration that generally follows article rejection ) . It 's almost certain that it will be submitted somewhere else , so your ( free ) inputs will benefit the authors and the community . This is valid , of course , only if you are not reviewer again in the next submission , you should definitely decline if it happens .
It 's important to remember that you 're negotiating a package , not a salary . In other words , there is a set of things you 're negotiating for , and you can play games in that space to get most of what you need . Limiting yourself to salary negotiation is tricky because salaries are often the most constrained part of the package ( especially in public universities in the US ) , and the one the chair/dean has the least power to change . So remember that your success at the job depends on your ability to recruit students , procure resources and bootstrap your research program . Which means you need startup money to pay students , lab space and equipment money as needed , teaching relief if that helps you focus on research , and so on . Throw these all into the mix when you negotiate , so that if you give up something along one dimension , you can try to parlay that into a gain along a different dimension . Also understand who you 're really negotiating with , and what powers they really have to offer you things . This can be found out by talking with your supporters at the department ( you must have some , otherwise you would n't have an offer ) and also folks at other institutions .
Almost every aspect of the job has politics invovled . Who teaches which classes , on what days and in which rooms . The distribution of TA support . What committees you serve on and what roles you play on those committees . Which lab space and office space you get . Rotation of sabbatical and research leaves . If there is any departmental funding , how it is spent . The hiring of new faculty and the admission of PhD students . I have even seen fights over what types of pens are kept in the supply closet . Generally as a new faculty , there are certain thing in your contract and other thing agreed to verbally and in emails . In toxic environments , and even in some good environments , these things will come under attack . Even things in you contract will come under attack from colleagues who want to take advantage of you . That is not to say it is all bad and not all colleagues will be out to get you . In good departments there will be more people looking out for you and only a handful of bad apples .
Many , if not most , journals specify a maximum of three levels . In a book where the chapter is the top level , four may be ok considering each chapter can be as extensive as a paper . The problem of having too many levels is that the headings disrupt the reading . A good sign of this is when you end up having one heading per paragraph . If that is the case , you can probably remove the lowest level of headings and try to make the resulting segments of text flow by inserting bridges that makes paragraphs into a coherent text . In my experience having read numerous student reports , theses and articles , three is a good goal . It is rare that a fourth level adds much in terms of structure apart from perhaps helping the writer . In fact , I often recommend students to keep a more detailed list of headings to enable them to see the structure of what they are writing but under the pretext that only a maximum of three should remain in their final version . I stand by that recommendation .
If you 're unsure who the right person is , do n't agonize over it : Just contact the professor ( s ) in question and let them tell you who to write to to make arrangements . They will know the organization and who is in charge of what .
I have been part of several hiring committees in a New Zealand university and : We are instructed to never ask about a candidate 's family situation , religion , sexual orientation , etc. . Personally , I do not want to know about your family situation to avoid any perceived bias in the hiring process . Any mention of the situation on your part ( like ' we are a bundle ' ) could be perceived as making the hiring more complicated . Unless your application is miles ahead of the rest ( unlikely ) why would a committee want the extra complication ? The only situation where I could see an advantage is when you family situation would suggest higher chances of success . For example , you are applying to a job in the middle of nowhere ( and potentially candidates would feel isolated ) and your family happens to be from there . I would wait to say ' we are a bundle ' ( if that 's what you have in mind ) to when you are offered the position . Ideally , you would never have to disclose your family situation until the university is willing to pay for your moving costs .
To complement other answers and comments : indeed , as far as I can tell , from a quasi-legalistic viewpoint " consent " can not be pushed on me by sending me something in email , e.g. , an abstract and asking whether I 'd review the article . Nevertheless , it is my firm impression that , there is a strong expectation that any such information is kept confidential in perpetuity , whether or not one agrees to referee/review . Yes , I agree , there is something a touch unfair or burdensome about this , since one can imagine that a malicious editor could wreak havoc with one 's work by sending a steady stream of one 's competitors ' as-yet-unpublished work ... thus seemingly obliging one to disrupt one 's own work ... ? And , yes , something like this does sometimes happen when one served as NSF reviewer ( in the older system ) , especially , where work-in-progress is sometimes portrayed . Despite the potential for abuse in having others put obligations upon us , it seems that the potential for abuse , in the line of " conflict of interest " , is substantially greater if confidentiality is not essentially promised implicitly , and in perpetuity .
In your question , However , he realized it and walked away immediately . and But after few hours , he came back and he was conversing with me like nothing happened indicate to me that he felt sorry and did n't know exactly how to deal with it . Professors are also human . They make the same mistakes others do . I would suggest you to talk to him in person about this incident politely and seriously . Tell him that you are upset with the remarks he made earlier and explain to him why . Do n't be emotional . Whether or not he will apologize is up to him . If he does n't offer apology to you after you talk to him , then talk to his superiors if you want the apology .
You should never offer a link shortener as the only option in an academic paper , for two reasons : It 's adding another point of failure : if the shortening service is down , then the link can not be followed . This is a particular worry over time , since the service may go out of business . One of the big reasons why link shorteners are so popular is that they keep track of usage statistics . I 'd be offended if I thought an author was using this to monitor when the link was followed , where the people following it were located , etc. . So if you offer a shortened URL , it should only be in addition to the real URL , not in place of it . However , I 'd tend to avoid even that . It does n't look professional to me , and I do n't think there 's much savings for the reader . ( Online papers should have clickable URLs , or at least ones that can be copied and pasted , so this only arises for someone who has a printed copy but no online copy . That can happen , but it 's hardly a major issue . )
There is nothing wrong with humour in scientific writing but it is still advised against . The reason for this is a question of communication . Consider that the purpose is to convey an idea as succinctly and precisely as you can and you want the recipient to understand everything that you write ( my experience says this will never happen , anyway ) . If you introduce jokes , you run several risks : ( 1 ) the reader does not understand the joke , ( 2 ) the reader misunderstands the joke and ( 3 ) the reader is offended by the joke . These are not outcomes you wish to see and realizing that not everyone 's taste is like your own it is easy top realize that the outcome is sure to be one of the three above in some cases . Jokes are different in different cultures and countries so what works in one place may not work in another . So , as I see it the choice is how much you are willing to gamble . Reviewers and editors may of course weed out things that go too far so what you write is not necessarily what comes into print in the end but it still is mostly up to you .
Why do you care ? Let them send you the book , if you are at all interested in the topic . ( Free books ! Yay ! ) Then review it . If the book is obviously crap , then stop reading after page 15 , write up how far you got and why you stopped reading , and submit the review . You may not get any more requests for reviewing from that particular publisher after that , but a one-paragraph review that warns people off a bad book is certainly helpful . And the entire process wo n't cost you more than half an hour . And if the book is good , you can spend more time on it , write a thoughtful review and got a Free Book out of it . EDIT : on second , third or more-th glance , I do see a way in which reviewing for a shady publisher can hurt you . Suppose an author plagiarizes a large amount of text for his book - but you do n't notice ( maybe because you are not familiar with the text that was plagiarized ) and write a good review . Once this becomes known , of course people will wonder why you did not notice . This really presupposes that something like this could more easily happen with a shady publisher , an assumption which may be open to question itself . I 'd rather wonder about the author than the publisher here . So I 'd recommend something like this : google the author . Check his publications . Does he have a track record in the field ? I 'd be suspicious if someone with no scientific footprint suddenly were to write a book . Check the publisher . What else have they published ? Go by the publisher 's website and by Amazon , especially if you do n't trust them to be honest on the website . How are the reviews of their other books on Amazon ? If you google their books ' titles with " site : edu " , does any educational institution set them as textbooks ? Finally , if the author has a website but does not mention the book you are supposed to review and the publisher looks extremely fishy to you , write him an email and ask about the book . It may be that an unethical publisher put his name on a plagiarized book that he never saw ( however , I do n't think that this is likely ) .
I find that grad students always wait too long to ask for help , either out of fear of looking " stupid " , or out of inexperience , or out of a misplaced sense of stubbornness . If you 've spent a few weeks on something and you 're thoroughly stuck , then you should absolutely ask someone ( advisor , other students , anyone with knowledge ) . You 'd be surprised at how often you were merely barking up the wrong tree , or just did n't know a very important fact or reference , or just had to reformulate the question differently . All of this takes experience , and that 's what an advisor is supposed to provide .
I can speak for Austria ( place where I did my PhD ) and Switzerland ( current place of employment ) , but my answer should be applicable for Germany as well . I wonder what is the Phd application process for Germany and Switzerland . Are there scholarships offered ? Is there a need for scholarship at all , or do you get paid as an researched directly from the institution where you get the Phd postion ? Both models exist , but the far more common one is that you are just employed as a researcher while doing your PhD . This has advantages and disadvantages . Typically these positions are financially rather attractive ( at least as far as PhD student salaries go ) , currently at about 2400 EUR 14 times a year in Austria for full-time employment , a bit more in Germany , significantly more ( around 5000 CHF 12 times a year ) in Switzerland . All of these salaries allow you to conveniently live ( no need for a diet of <URL> ) in the respective places . On the other hand , as a researcher you are not " just " working on your thesis . In addition , teaching has to be handled , support in administrative matters will be part of your job , and you will need to work on matters of your research project that you find neither interesting nor advance your thesis work in any way . The application process is generally as for any other job - find out what jobs are offered , contact the person per mail , send in CV , ( usually ) do an interview via Skype , wait for an offer . The hardest part is probably finding out what research groups currently have job openings . Positions are generally not announced very widely ( if at all ) . However , just because you can not find an ad for an open position with a specific professor does not necessarily mean that he does not have a position available . Both places that I worked at had open positions almost at all times for a really qualified student . What really helps here are connections - do you know somebody who is already an " insider " in academic circles , maybe a PhD student or postdoc ? If so , ask him to put you in contact with some faculty . If not , look for universities that you might consider joining , find out from their web page what faculty there handles your topic , and send them a short mail . Keep it crisp - both of my professors so far have been insanely busy , and any mail from an unknown person with more than one short paragraph will never be read carefully . Just tell who you are , what your current university is , and that you would like to talk about the possibility of doing a PhD . Give them a week to answer and then send a quick and friendly reminder ( my current prof is the dean of the faculty , and given the size of his inbox mails sometimes do get lost - that does not mean that he is necessarily not interested ) . Maybe , the professor will put you in contact with one of this postdocs or PhD students to " chat " via Skype or in person ( if possible ) - consider this the technical interview , because afterwards the prof will ask the person that you talked to whether they think that you have the technical skills that are required for the selected field . What you should not do is send an overly long formal application - most professors get many of those from rather dubios applicants from the far east , hence formal blind applications are generally discarded unread . Do n't be one of those . is there a need to search and find for a supervisor ( or professor ) , and explain him the idea for the research that you are planning to work on ... or do you get the position and work on the topics which are treated in that research group . my question is both for Swiss and DE ? You are generally not expected to " come " with your own topic . Your broad overall theme will be defined by whatever project / position pays your salary , and on top of that you are expected to define your concrete research project together with a postdoc and/or the professor some time into your PhD ( say , about a year after starting ) . What you should know is roughly what interests you research-wise and contact only professors that really do this research . This sounds like a given , but I work in services and software engineering , and I have lost track of many applicants interested in robotics , AI , formal methods , etc. . I have already discarded . Do n't be one of those , either .
The International Standard ISO 8601 is YYYY-MM-DD . See <URL> and <URL> . Sadly this is not used by everyone as can be seen in this <URL> : The most popular order is day-month-year ( Little-Endian , cyan in the image ) , used by about 57 % of the world population . Next is year-month-day ( Big-Endian , yellow ) , used by about 29 % . Then month-day-year ( Middle-Endian , magenta ) , used by about 6 % . The remaining 8 % use a mix of the above . <URL> But , in the end the most important is the standards used in your university or the conference or journal you are sending your papers to .
end question
start question
Is it appropriate to bring coffee and cookies to a PhD defense ?
How I have seen it handle in France : usually , no food and drinks is given out during the defense , except for a bottle of water and a glass who are set on table of each member of the defense committee . However , as you say , it may be cold outside and committee members may be glad for a hot drink and/or maybe something to eat ( depending what time it is ) . So , it is quite customary for the thesis advisor ( s ) to actually invite the committee members to join him some time before the defense starts , where they can make small talk and drink coffee . If the defense starts early afternoon , they committee can even go to lunch together , giving them an opportunity to discuss practical stuff ( who will chair the committee ? what order will people talk in ? etc. ) . Then , after the defense is concluded , there is a celebratory " cocktail " ( buffet and drinks ) to which the defense committee is invited , and to which they usually attend at least for half an hour .
I 'll tackle the easiest side of the question first : bringing nothing should not create trouble . If you are clearly expressing your thanks for the invitation , both in written before you arrive , and in person when you meet the guy , none should take offense . On the other hand , bringing a gift is fine too , but : It should be tasteful and suitable for any taste : no sake , no unusual ( by US standards ) food ... unless you know him well enough . It should not be terribly expensive : people like the attention , but they do n't actually care so much about the gift itself . Keep it simple , that way it can not be understood as a bribe . Not academia-related , but still useful to remember : make sure it passes customs ( I had my French gift confiscated from me once ) . I usually bring stuff to colleagues who host me when I travel to other places , if only because it gives a starting topic for smalltalk ( something which I 'm not very good at ) in a future occasion .
This makes the letter of recommendation more personal and shows , you really want to support her . It makes a difference to all the other " this student has good grades and is always on time " - letters . So go ahead !
What a nice idea ! This professor mentored you in the early days of your studies , so he will be pleased and interested to hear that you are continuing to progress in his favorite topic . Also , consider that your article having been selected to be published is good news for those who work in that area at your institution . So he will be pleased in that regard as well . It 's important to learn to be courageous in this way . You will benefit greatly over the years from ' networking . ' Sharing your good news , by giving him a copy of your publication , is an example of networking . A nice touch would be to write a personal inscription on the copy you plan to give him , thanking him for the mentoring he gave you back in 20xx , and for sparking your first interest in the area . Something like that . The best gift of all is a sincere thank-you .
Authors usually do n't and can not sell directly copies of their books , and the price is decided by the publisher . Of course , an author has their draft copy in electronic format , but they might not even have the final electronic version as published . Authors typically receive a few courtesy copies of their books , but they have no access to other copies for free . My suggestion however is to borrow the book from your university library : that 's what library are for , after all . If the library does n't have a copy , depending on your position , you can : Suggest the library to buy a copy . Many university libraries buy books according to the suggestions of their faculties : if you can not do this directly , probably your adviser can . Ask your library if they can loan it from another library . In many countries there is a system of interlibrary loans , and sometimes it works even across different countries .
Regarding your original question , if you have access to a Russian translation and you want to cite the English translation , but you do not have access to the English translation , then you really need to focus on citing what you have access to . Now , I understand it turns out you do have access to the English version as stated in your answer but for future reference , you should not cite a version of a text you do not have acces to . The reasons are more than simply that you do n't know the page numbers . It is possible that there is a problem in the Russian translation but the English version does not have that problem . Likewise the opposite could be true . Basically , the two versions could be slightly but meaningfully different . Because of this possibility , you should only cite what you have access to . Otherwise , cite through a third-party " Jones wrote in 2001 ( cited in Simpson , 2005 ) . "
There are several cases where PhDs do an MBA . Some of them are : Bored of research as a whole . Irritation with academia and poor scope in Industry . Want to earn money . For furthering responsibilities at the university where one is a professor . If you do some looking around , a high amount of Deans to have an MBA along with a PhD .
If it is a technical talk on a particular library then yes , code is appropriate , and in some cases - even recommended ( as opposed to hand waving ) . But : keep it readable ( big font , syntax highlighting , reasonable variable names ) , keep it short ( examples as minimal as possible ) , give enough time to read and understand it . Some examples how it is being done : <URL> or for async JS : <URL> .
Your assumption depends on your location . If you are interested in obtaining a PhD in Computer Science at a school in the US , then in fact many programs do not expect you to have a Master 's degree prior to beginning your doctoral studies . However , if you 've been in industry for 16 years , it may be difficult to secure the letters of recommendation required for entry . Certainly letters from employers are accepted , especially in your case , but if they do not show a strong desire and aptitude for research , they will not be worth as much . However , do n't let that dissuade you . Apply anyway , if that 's what you want to do .
It looks like you 're set with respect to material things . What I would encourage you to prepare is an agenda -- which , in this case , means a set of immediately practical questions you need answers to , and one or two conversation-starters regarding your would-be advisor 's research and that of his existing advisees . Practical questions : what paperwork is involved in formalizing the arrangement , when should you report to start work , that sort of thing . Conversation starters : " I read your recent ' Mathematical Models of Baskets ' in the Journal of Underwater Basketweaving ; are you still working on that ? " " What are your current students working on , and is there anything you wish somebody would tackle ? " and that sort of thing .
Taking the job would probably mean permanently leaving academia behind , and giving up the prospects of ever finishing your Ph.D. . If you 're okay with that ( which you might well be ) , then I think it 's fine to take the industry job . I also recommend trying to figure out what your future job prospects are if you decide to finish your degree ( and conversely , what your future job prospects might be if you take this industry job and it does n't pan out ) . The comparison to your PhD salary seems a bit strange unless your circumstances are unusual ( e.g. you really need the money now ) . Whatever you decide , I recommend putting your own future first , and thinking less both about your present salary and about your PhD advisor .
In a word , yes . It is very common for academic employers to want to know about a candidate 's research in progress , and they often ask for research plans , unpublished manuscripts , reports on ongoing projects , etc. . From the employer 's point of view , they want to know as much as possible about what the candidate is doing , so as to evaluate the promise of their research program and their productivity . This is especially true for junior candidates who do not already have a large body of published work . So a request for a draft of a PhD thesis would not be out of line . When a candidate shares such material as part of their application , the hiring professor or committee has an ethical obligation to hold it in confidence . They should not circulate it beyond those people within the department who are involved in the hiring decision . Also , it would be ethically inappropriate for anyone with access to this material to exploit it for the gain of their own research program ( e.g. by trying to solve the candidate 's thesis problem before they do , or giving it to one of their own students ) . As the candidate , you have the right to expect that this will not happen . Of course , as a matter of practice , if you want the job , you do n't have much choice but to give them what they ask . But I would n't see such a request as unusual or unreasonable , and I do n't think you need worry about them using it unfairly . If you are still worried , you could send them the thesis along with a note saying " since this is work in progress , I would ask that you keep it in confidence " . Also , I would say it 's an exaggeration to say a thesis should be a " closely guarded secret " or to react with " horror " to a request to share it . It 's generally prudent not to share unpublished work indiscriminately , but it 's not as if it were missile launch codes . If there is something to be gained by sharing it with someone ( e.g. useful input from an expert , a potential collaborator , a job ) then often that 's a good idea . It seems to be pretty common for people starting out in academia to overestimate the risks of people stealing their work : yes , there are horror stories , but in the long run , you usually have more to lose from excessive secrecy than from reasonable openness . Paranoia is generally not a helpful trait for an academic .
It really does not matter where you come from . In general , to apply for a PhD program in the U.S. , you need : application letter , resume , reference letters ( usually 3 ) , master 's degree ( mostly required ) , transcripts from bachelor 's and master 's program , and GRE score ( many programs require it ) . In addition , TOEFL score if your native language is not English . Most of the time , if you are admitted to a PhD program in social sciences , you will be granted with assistantship / scholarship at the same time . Mostly , it 's an assistantship , which means you will teach or do something else for the department . The stipend of the assistantship usually is only enough for you to live , not for your research study . If you need funding for your research study , you have to invest your own savings , or get research funding from the department or other grant institutions , which is not easy to get . For the resources , use Google or Google Scholar to look for related publications or scholars . Actually , it is a good strategy to contact professors for the research topic first . If a professor is interested in your research topic or finds you competent during the discussion , it will increase the possibility for the professor to accept you to his/her program . But , be carefully prepared , do n't send email before digging into the literature .
Submitting an academic paper for publication ( and potentially getting it accepted ) does not require any qualifications whatsoever . You do n't need a PhD ; you do n't even need to have gone to college . There are no educational , employment , or membership requirements at all . That 's not to say it 's easy to get a paper accepted with no formal training in the field . Learning how to write a compelling paper is much easier if you have a mentor to offer guidance . However , if you can figure out how to do it without a PhD , then your lack of a PhD will not be held against you .
There is no problem in citing a conference paper in a PhD thesis . When selecting literature that you want to use in your scientific work , it is not uncommon to take the reputation of the hosting medium ( journal , conference , etc ) into account . The examiners of your thesis might question the quality of the work that you are citing when it origins from dubious sources . But that holds for dubious conferences , as well as for dubious journals . There are , however , many conferences with an excellent reputation . And there is no reason why you should not cite papers that have been published there . Furthermore , when you make use of a work ( paper or anything else ) that comes from a less established source , you are still obligated to refer to this work . After all , we want things to be verifiable in science . You might even cite a source that you are disagreeing with . Sometimes , an extended version of the conference paper is published as a journal paper , and then you may prefer to cite the journal paper instead .
We are allowed to share solutions etc , as long as each student 's does n't just copy but understands what he/she writes . This is the only information we have about your instructor 's policies , so this is the only answer we can give to your question . It 's OK to hire a tutor for help with the homework , as long as you do n't just copy but understand what you write . It 's also possible that your instructor intends different rules for paid tutors than for cooperation with your fellow students . However , we would have no way of knowing that from the information provided in your question . There are also general expectations about plagiarism and originality , and these are ethical norms that you 're responsible for understanding and following , regardless of your instructor 's policies . Your description of your working relationship with your tutor is n't specific enough to make it clear whether you have a problem here or not . As JeffE has pointed out , " fixing " your mistakes might entail plagiarism , if it means that what goes on your paper is n't actually what you wrote yourself .
Absolutely you can add a coauthor in revision , if there is good reason for doing so : in fact , I have recently done so myself on a paper where revision involved some new experiments with the aid of a colleague not previously involved . Most journals that I know consider authorship changes routine and even explicitly support such changes by asking you to review and , if necessary , modify author lists as part of submitting a revision through their system .
I am not aware of any absolute measure for this . However , you can have a general idea by : Some schools provide last year ( s ) statistics about their programs ( usually in the prospective student section ) . For example , program A has attracted X number of applications and Y applications were accepted . Also , some programs have a fix limit ( i.e. due to number of equipments available ) for number of applications to be accepted . Sometimes online admission results like the one in <URL> give you a sense on how strict the school is .
As a general rule : anything which is clearly academically related can go on your CV . As you say , there are certain things that are required or nearly required on your CV , but even these vary by discipline and sometimes people in the same discipline have divergent ideas . ( For instance , every once in a while I find a CV which does n't list the candidate 's undergraduate institution , or lists it without indicating the years that they spent there . I would have thought that was strictly required . I guess I was wrong . ) What to fight in adding " academically related " information to your CV is clear : if you put in too much routine stuff , you 'll get a bloated mess of a CV that few people will actually read . Drawbacks of a lengthy CV can be mitigated by very careful and clear organization . Nevertheless , you can compare CVs of two absolutely cognate people -- e.g. who attended undergrad and grad at exactly the same time and arrived at their current institution at the same time and with the same seniority -- and you 'll find significant variations , including up to at least 1/3 in the total length . It 's really your choice how much detail to put on your CV , and I would be skeptical of anyone who tells you too stridently what you must and must not do . Having said that : yes , very early career academics ( especially students ) really struggle to have a CV that does n't look unhelpfully skimpy . Conference work sounds like a great thing to put on a junior person 's CV -- and in fact , even on a senior person 's , although a more senior person might be more selective about the kind of conference work that goes on your CV . One tip : " conference volunteering " might be an undersell . Most conference organizing is unpaid , hence is volunteer work . " Conference assistant " sounds like your work was really on the level of secretarial work / technical support . If that is an accurate description of what you did , great . If you do such things more than once or twice , you should think about asking to be let in on some of the more content-related aspects of the work . For instance , if you had a say -- however small -- in choosing or recruiting the speakers or attendees , then I would go for something like " co-organizer " rather than " assistant " .
I 'm sure some advisors do act this way . I do n't think it 's very common , but it does happen . It 's more common for advisors to expect certain results than a particular hourly commitment , but all these things are a matter of extent . However , in trying to figure out whether to switch advisors , I think you 're asking yourself the wrong question . The right question is : What type of advising relationship works for you ? If you feel energized , motivated , and happy under your current conditions , that 's one thing . If you feel overburdened and miserable , then you should probably look for a different advisor . Even the most competitive Ph.D. programs have faculty who are not so demanding . You have to figure out what type of style works best for you and try to find an advisor who is a good match .
end question
start question
Is it beneficial to publish papers not related to your primary research field ?
I 'm honestly surprised at the question . " Primary " does not mean " only " ! If it 's a good paper , then of course you should publish it . Aside from the obvious personal benefits of making you look more diverse , increasing your visibility in another field , and possibly possibly creating opportunities for future collaboration , you 're doing what research is for : expanding human knowledge . And if it 's not a good paper , then of course you should n't publish it , even if it is in your primary field . But to echo shan23 's comment : Do n't use grants in area X to fund research in area Y.
In the American style , at least , your acknowledgements are yours to do with what you like . Other answers on this site include <URL> or <URL> . Thus , if you feel thankful to the members of your committee , you should feel free to thank them in your acknowledgements section .
I think that one has to distinguish different kinds of failures , and also see if the field is experimental or not . If you have done experiments and they show that some approach does not work , it is perfectly fine to publish that ( although , as is discussed in various places , you often do not get the credit that you deserve for this ) . If your work is theoretical , it is important that you can formalize the " dead ends " in a sufficient useful way ; for example by proving that objects of a certain kind or with certain properties do not exist or that an ( intuitive ) lemma is wrong which can be shown by a counterexample .
The current best source for answers to this question is <URL> , which categorizes all journals by their policies . This tells you , for most respectable journals , what you are legally allowed to do in terms of posting versions of the paper on other sites ( this may , of course , be modified by local laws ; for example , <URL> ) . For a large number of journals , you are at least legally allowed to post preprints . In such a case , I see no advantage in flouting the law by publishing the journal 's final version instead : I believe a preprint is generally sufficient to make your work more readily accessible and gain you the <URL> . As for journals that do not allow you to post preprints : you need to make your own moral and personal judgement on whether you will submit to such journals at all , and if so , the degree to which you will comply with the law .
Your approach to asking -- " this is what I have tried , I am stuck here ... can you point out how I can continue ? " -- is the right one . Without knowing how difficult of a problem you have gotten stuck on , and how often you ask for help , it is very hard for us to judge how your advisor will interpret your request . That said , in general I very much appreciate it when my graduate students and postdocs let me know when they get stuck on some step of a research project . My students and I are collaborators after all , and if I can help them get going again , or alternatively if I can recognize that we 've been heading down a dead-end , this is very much to everyone 's benefit . Of course , they should not be coming to me with trivial problems : " I ca n't get this expression to format properly in LaTeX " or " I do n't know how to compute the Jacobian matrix for this function " , nor would I want to get these requests on a daily basis . But if a competent student has made a serious effort to solve a problem and is still stuck , I 'd like to know about it and to help if at all possible .
I ca n't think of how an excellent letter of recommendation from a professor in an unrelated field of study could hurt you . Perhaps if it was the only ( excellent ) letter of recommendation , maybe then . But you mentioned you have an excellent letter from your employer and can ( I assume ) get at least one more good letter from someone else , so I think you are in a good position . You are right , his letter of recommendation would not be about your technical skills related to EE , but it would mention your characteristics , work ethics , teamwork ability in a very good light . Research writing course is also not that far away from EE . It shows you are more diverse than the stereotypical programmer or engineer . You worked with this specific professor for 2 semesters , he could give you an outstanding letter of recommendation . I think his letter will give you more than any single average/solid letter from other professors .
To identify landmark papers , you can also consult the bibliography of your textbook if you have already taken classes that cover ( even briefly ) your subfield of interest . If your textbook is one that is used by a lot of university professors , then it probably covers landmark papers well . You can often identify the most important papers in a textbook because they 'll possibly : be referred to multiple times and in multiple chapters appear near the beginning of a chapter when a topic is first introduced explicitly be acknowledged in the text by the author of the textbook as a seminal paper A disadvantage to this approach is that , depending on when your version of the textbook was last updated , it may miss important developments in recent yeras . Identifying highly-regarded authors can be harder , but you can try looking up authors ( especially last-named ones , who are often supervisors/professors ) of important papers on , for example , Google Scholar , to see what else they have produced and whether they have a lot of highly cited papers .
Short answer : yes it is ok to accept the review . Long answer : Yes , it is ( still ) ok to accept the review . If you can only review paper written by authors you have never ever interacted with , at some point in your career , you 'll stop reviewing . Especially if you are working in a small field of research . For me , in your case , it is more than fine to accept the review . The question becomes more tricky if it is from someone you work ( ed ) with ... If you want to try out some really tricky reviewing scenario , try out this test : <URL>
Your question indicates that you want to use a link to your LinkedIn profile in your CV because " it 'll be far more up to date than the CV in my dissertation . " Are you suggesting that ( a ) you are going to include a CV that is not up to date , or that ( b ) your LinkedIn profile will be updated over time and that you wo n't be able to go back and edit your dissertation ? If you mean ( a ) , then no , you need to keep your CV up to date and a link to an online profile will not work . Your academic CV should always be kept as up to date as possible and it should absolutely be updated before you submit it in an application or include it in a dissertation . If you are doing your CV correctly , it will include different information than a LinkedIn profile and there is a strong expectation that every academic will have one . If you mean ( b ) and are just worried that an archival copy of your CV will be out of date , sure , add a link to LinkedIn or similar . My CV links prominently to my academic homepage on at a permanent ( i.e. , non-university ) URL , which is kept up to date , and which includes a link to the latest version of my CV at all point . I include a date in the footer of my CV although folks will have a date in your dissertation . Personally , I think this is better than relying on a for-profit company and its URLs for posterity . In terms of the QR code , I 'd skip it . These days , almost everybody who reads the dissertation will read a soft copy . A hyperlink will be much more useful . I suspect that a QR code will just end up make the document look dated at some point in the rather near future .
There are ZERO ethics involved . First , you suspect , but do not know , who the original reviewers were . You may be right , you may be wrong . Next , suggestions for potential reviewers are just that -- suggestions . It is the responsibility of the editor to pick appropriate reviewers , and your suggestions are just one potential source of information in the process of doing so . I 'd say even if you recommend people who you respect to referee your papers , they 'll surprise you regularly with critical reviews ( if they 're doing their job ) . The biggest ethical quandry you can get into in the process of recommending referees is probably some sort of pre-arrangement with those you suggest . This is to be avoided as less than stellar behavior .
" ... a quick - one , two , you 're published ! " That 's not how it works . What works is : Make it a publicly available preprint ( online repositories like arXiv , a preprint series of some institute , university , maybe via your personal website or blog ... ) . Submit to some peer reviewed journal that complies with papers that are available as preprints ( and there are journals that do not cost you anything ; you will not get " open access " for free , but in many cases the preprint can stay freely available ) . Put the paper in your CV and add " submitted for publication " . Then the paper will be visible and checkable and it also shows that you know how scientific publishing works .
I ca n't imagine why it would be cheating : So long as you 're producing the majority of the content , it would n't be cheating to have someone check for the problems that are now invisible to you !
This seems like a strange situation , since it is very counterproductive for both you and your supervisor . If this is indeed common in your group , I am sure several ideas have been scooped by the time they finally get submitted . Unfortunately , I really do n't have any decent idea why your supervisor would act this way . The most important thing to do is to talk to your supervisor and do n't let him/her dismiss the issue . This may seem like an aggressive approach , but you can disguise it as a learning experience , e.g. " Please tell me what is wrong with the current manuscript because I believe it is ready for submission , oh wise one " . Whatever you do , remain polite . A few approaches you can try ( all of which are reasonable , so do n't be shy ) : Send reminders and send them often . Ask what you can do to improve the manuscript . If your supervisor has no further suggestions to change the manuscript , ask where you can submit it to directly . Do n't wait for him/her to wake up . This approach may lead to your supervisor turning it into a ping-pong match , asking you to make trivial but time-consuming extensions again and again . In this case , confront your supervisor and explain your perspective . If you can find an appropriate call for papers , ask permission to send the manuscript there . Calls typically have deadlines and are not necessarily a downgrade in terms of venue quality . This includes conferences and journal special issues . Having a hard deadline might help .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
In order to return to academia , you will need to satisfy certain requirements . Most academic jobs require holding a Ph.D. in the relevant field . You already have one . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Teaching jobs require demonstrated teaching experience . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . You could certainly try to build a track record of successful teaching by getting in touch with a local community college and offering to teach a few courses - possibly even while holding your industry day job . If you are serious about returning to academia , this would be an investment , not a source of income , so you could offer to teach for little or no remuneration . Research ( and teaching ) jobs require publications . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Instead , get up to speed on current research , find a good open problem , work on it and publish some papers . Finally , contacts will be invaluable . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Instead , attend conferences , give presentations , get to know people , leave a good impression and hint that you would like to return to academia . Note the common thread going through all these points : a second Ph.D. in the same field wo n't help you . Instead , invest your time in building the kind of portfolio ( teaching , publications , contacts ) that you do need . This will likely be an uphill battle , but if you are motivated enough , then go for it . Good luck !
I highly recommend a software to manage this like Endnote , Zotero , or Mendeley . The last two are free if your library is small enough ( depends on the size of the PDFs ) . That will make things much easier by cleaning up the metadata and helping you use search tools to find the right papers . In each of these software , you can also sort the papers around . The key is that within these software , you can put a paper into multiple folders/categories/groups / whatever else they call it . I use this liberally . Note that the software will keep the reference as one reference with multiple links , and so if you do things like annotate or add notes to the file they will be visible at all locations where you can find the paper . Before doing anything make sure the metadata is all correct . You can always last resort with using the search bar if it is . First put each paper into a field . So I would make a folder like breast cancer , and then have a subcategory like metastasis if I have a bunch of papers specifically on that subtopic . Finding odd papers reduces to remembering what subtopic it 's from , and finding that subtopic folder within the right topic . If a paper works in multiple different places , I put it in each place . Then add the papers to project folders . I make a master folder for each project , and subfolders for different parts of the project , put the appropriate references . The software can now automatically generate a file with all of the references for the paper which helps with citing . Using this method , you can always dive down into a folder/subfolder that makes sense , either by project or by field , then sort by title/author/year / etc ( and easily switch between these ) , or use the search in the subfolder , and always quickly find what you need . But ... you will need to take a day or two to set this up . That 's a long and tedious task , but definitely worth it . Then I usually just do a minor fix up for new additions every few months to keep it tidy .
While in principle everything that you use in your research should be paid for by those funding your research , in practice it 's not unusual to buy oneself small supplies at the " minor office supply " level for sake of expedience , or because they 're outside of the main line of one 's research . For example , a student might want a $ 10 piece of electronics today that would take several weeks to acquire through normal channels , and then might decide it 's not worth it to them to get reimbursed . You might also buy something for yourself if you want to be the owner : for example , I bought my own laptop late in graduate school , rather than using a school laptop , because I wanted it to be my own personal machine that I could take with me when I finished . What you have written , however , sounds like a much more problematic situation : it appears that you 're effectively being asked to lie to your professor 's funder , by misrepresenting how their money is being spent . If it 's a significant amount of money , then you could be abetting in a felony-level crime . As such , if it is a significant amount of money , I would strongly advise you to not buy the equipment yourself . Instead , I think you should tell your advisor that you need the equipment , but if they do n't get it , you 'll just have to do your best without . If your advisor does n't buy the equipment , you should n't badmouth your advisor to the funder . Just do your best , and if they ask you why you do n't have the equipment you need , you can tell them the honest truth : you 've asked your advisor for it and are hoping you 'll get it .
You should definitely write it up . There are plenty of good reasons for doing so and no downside . Writing a paper is a good exercise for future paper and report writing , and while you are doing it you are likely to think of new ideas about your research . You will also have to search for similar work that might be suitable for references and you may find something useful there too . You should also put the paper online somewhere so that it is preserved and available to others who may find it useful . If there is data and/or code that goes with the paper you can use figshare for example . It does not matter if there is not much response to your work , that is common when authors have no background and does not mean it is not good . Someone may pick up on it later when you do n't expect it . You might also want to try to publish in a peer-review journal if you think it is sufficiently original and useful . That might require you to write it up in a specific format such at LaTeX . Again that is all good experience . You will have a much better chance of acceptance in a journal if you can use your university affiliation but you will have to make it clear that you are an undergraduate there to avoid problems and it might be best to check with your tutor . If you search around you may find a suitable journal that is specifically set up to accept work from undergraduates . If you can get it accepted it would look good on your CV whatever you plan to do in the future . The only circumstance that would make it unwise to publish your work would be if the algorithm is original and of high commercial value and/or patentable in which case you would have to follow a different route to protect your intellectual property . However that is a rare situation .
I have undertaken to create such lists as an academic exercise myself , and quite a lot of effort is involved in doing this . There are a variety of approaches that I will suggest , and I would place more emphasis on the first approaches . Literature review papers : Look for literature reviews on the subject of interest . Read the reviews ' analysis and discussion of the state of research , there should usually be a discussion of how the state got where it is , and their citations should point you right at the seminal works . Paper Cites : review known papers of interest for their citations . You 'll want to recurse back to this strategy as more papers become known to you . Textbook tables of citations : Review several respected textbooks that cover the subject , and inspect their citations for more works that you want to be aware of . Reputation , reference : Ask professors and PhD students in the field what papers they think are important . Some professors may not be particularly helpful , but some may drop a comprehensive bibliographic database right in your lap . Seminar Reading Lists : Ask for the reading list for PhD student seminars in the field . Most Downloads/Read : This might not lead you to seminal works , per se , but seminal works will tend to be more read , and this provides another way of categorizing and prioritizing your review the literature . For example , if one paper has been downloaded at a rate 1000 times higher than another on the same topic , you might choose to examine the former first . Also , you 'll need to keep track of your efforts . Expecting to solely rely on your memory is not only wrong , but likely to mean you 've wasted much of your research time . I use <URL> with integration in Firefox , to track the papers I 've read . If I get papers or books in electronic form , Zotero can also store the electronic copy for me . It can also quickly create a table of references for you , and has some other nice features . It also has competitors that I 'm not as familiar with , of note are Mendeley , a freemium model platform , and Endnote , a rather popular and mature commercial platform .
The statement you quote sounds terrible . It points in a direction where things approach the unethical . Publication of negative results are less common that positive although , I suspect , negative results ARE more common than positive . Since I am in an experimental field , I have never obtained the perfect results and always end up describing what went wrong ; and I am not alone . Anyway , I think your idea of writing up your experience is good . Naturally , I can not judge the merits of the experiences in terms of publicability . So I think your intention is very sound and the reaction of the lead investigator suspect ( or at best narrow-minded ) . To me " further publications should n't raise more limitations that should have been mentioned in the original publication " ( if verbatim from the lead investigator and with my emphasis ) sounds as if limitations were not included on purpose in the original study . So , if that is true then I can understand the nervousness . It sounds almost fraudulent .
end question
start question
Software to use for creating posters for academic conferences ?
Powerpoint . There are hundreds of PowerPoint poster templates available online , many of them are good , and it is one of the standard formats people accept -- and can be exported to PDF for easy post-conference distribution .
Personal anecdote : I am not allowed to install Skype on my corporate machine , for security reasons . ( I 'm unclear whether the issues our IT people fear are that people might listen in on our secretsecretsecret Skype calls , or whether they fear Skype might be a vector for malicious software . ) So do n't be surprised if someone can not do Skype . My company has a ( likely expensive ) <URL> subscription . This runs in browsers , so we have less security concerns . It allows the host a lot of options and will work for larger videoconferences ( multiple hundreds of participants ) . I realize that this is not academic use per se , so feel free to flame me ;-)
Yes . The affiliation serves two purposes : acknowledgement and identification . Even if it is not part of your thesis research , if you are receiving resources of any kind from your institution , you should list them as your affiliation . These resources include money ( whether directly related to your research or not ) , computing equipment , internet access , printer access , electricity , phones , faculty and student colleagues ( whether coauthors or not ) , library access ( either physical or electronic ) , whiteboards , local coffee shops/bars , and the general intellectual atmosphere that encourages you to do research in the first place . You can afford to be generous . Also , the affiliation helps identify you as an author , especially if you have a common name , or you publish other papers with the same affiliation .
I am sure this varies but is most likely one of the following ( in some kind of falling order ) : you are a well-known and respected researcher/educator in the field you have recently written material that are key to the book ( perhaps referenced in it ) you are known not to know the word " No " ( makes the editors work easier ) you are friends with the editor ( makes his/her life easy ) I doubt many editors will necessarily take you up on an offer ( depending which category you may fall into ) but I am sure some might be fine with it . It never hurts to contact an editor and express interest . You should then provide a background for why you should be considered for such a task .
Absolutely . It helps , though , to be a little context sensitive . If you 've just come from an amazing presentation and want to talk about it to someone else , then " did you just hear that great talk by/about X ? " is a good way to start the conversation , better than just " Hello " or " Great conference , eh ? " If you know who the person is ( they 're speaking , you recognize them , etc ) , then greeting them ( " Hi Kate , " or " good morning , Dr. Gregory , " according to your industry norms ) and introducing yourself with context ( " I 'm Susan , I really enjoyed your book " ) is a fine first sentence but please , have a second sentence ready . After the person says " thankyou , that 's very kind , " what will happen next ? A question is good here - perhaps there 's something you 've always wanted to ask - or you could go back to your opener for a complete stranger , " did you just hear that great talk by/about X ? " Never open with something negative - " were you in that stinker of a session ? Was n't it the most boring thing ever ? " - is right up there with the friend of mine who asked someone at a wedding " who is that obnoxious fat woman in the flowered dress and why is she even here ? " only to be told " that 's my mother . " My biggest problem with conference conversations is when someone wants to have a conversation with me but does n't actually have anything to say . That puts all the conversational effort on me and it 's hard work . Should you find yourself in this situation , have a selection of questions you can ask : is this your first time at [ this conference ] ? ( do n't ask an industry luminary , or a speaker , this question ) are you enjoying the conference so far ? what is your favourite talk so far ? ( not good the morning of Day 1 ) is there a particular session you 're really looking forward to ? It 's a little trickier to ask questions outside the scope of the conference , like " where are you from " or " where do you work ? " because they often contain assumptions - you might assume someone is a student who has graduated , or is a prof when they are n't yet , or is in a lab when they are not , and it 's possible to offend someone . So do n't lead off with these . Often , stating your own circumstances is a way to prompt the other person to respond in kind : " I flew here from just outside Toronto . You ? " or " I 'm doing/finishing a Ph.D / postdoc/intership at ABC . You ? " though again be careful if the person thinks you should know this thing about them , or if it 's on their badge . You usually want to get a paragraph or two into conversation before discussing " real life " rather than the conference . Well chosen questions not only move the conversation along , they can meet your other goals . Maybe you 'll decide to attend a session you had n't planned to . Maybe you 'll learn about a great book or other resource related to something you enjoyed . Maybe you 'll be invited to something , or exchange business cards , or al those other benefits of networking at conferences . None of those things can happen if you just say " hi " and leave it at that , the other person says " hi " and then the two of you stand there awkwardly , wondering why you 're not having a conversation . I read and enjoyed a book called <URL> that emphasizes knowing what you want from encounters like this . Are you trying to find a job ? Hire someone ? Learn more about something ? Tell people what you 've discovered ? For every want you bring to that conference , someone else brings the matching one and if you two find each other you will both be happy - but only if you tell them what you 're looking for and what you have to offer . This is a skill you can learn , and marching up to strangers and saying " hi " is only the first step .
You should use the date conferred . Universities will have an official date where all degrees for the term are conferred on everyone . This is usually not the same date as the graduation ceremony as there can be multiple graduation ceremonies across multiple days , but trying to keep track of all of them would be confusing . It 's much simpler to just pick one day after all the ceremonies and say all degrees are official as of that date . That being said , I 've never heard of an employer ( or anyone ) who really cares about the particular date as long as it 's clear that you 've already met all of the requirements of graduation .
I think your question is best rephrased as follows : If someone wants to use my dissertation , would it be ethical for me to ask for a payment ? Assuming you are asking about using the intellectual content of your dissertation , the answer is NO . Whether or not that someone is your employer is irrelevant . However , your actual presentation is protected by copyright , which for dissertations is normally completely held by the author . So if someone wanted to use your specific words and/or figures beyond the limits of <URL> , then you have the right to seek compensation .
In most countries , there exist high performance computers that researchers can apply for access to . For example , in Sweden there is the <URL> , and other countries have similar projects . When you get access , you get a limited number of core-hours ( for example , if you have 5000 core hours , you can run 50 cores for 100 hours or 500 cores for 10 hours ) to be used over a specific period of time ( for example , one year ) . To apply for access , you may have to go through someone who is employed at a university , if you are n't . If you are a student , you hopefully have a supervisor who can apply for your project . Or they might have special services for students !
As a postdoc applicant , you should be starting to develop a distinctive , compelling research agenda and vision . As a grad student , it 's usually enough to work on problems someone gives you , and you can go to your advisor for help as needed . If you never move beyond this , it 's not a great outcome , but you 'll eventually get your Ph.D. ; you just wo n't be on track for further research success . To be a successful postdoc , you need to develop the ability to work more independently . However , intellectual leadership is more than just independence . It 's not enough just to write papers . Instead , these papers should fit together and be aimed towards larger goals , in a way you can articulate coherently . If someone asks you what sort of research you do , you should be able to explain what you are aiming for , how your work differs from other people 's , and why your approach is worthwhile and even important . This takes time and comes only with experience - more will be expected of tenure-track job applicants , or people being considered for tenure or a full professorship . But a postdoc applicant needs to demonstrate a start , by writing a research statement that sounds exciting , and ideally by publishing several papers that build on each other to accomplish something larger than any one of them . It 's even better if other researchers have already started to take up your ideas and apply or extend them , although that 's more common in fast-moving fields with short publication cycles . What you do n't want is to come across just like your advisor , but with less experience and perhaps less talent . You can succeed that way if you do fantastic work , but it 's not a wise approach for most students : it 's just not good advertising to say " I 'm basically a less good version of my advisor . " Even while you are still in graduate school , you should be aiming to differentiate yourself a little from your advisor ( with your advisor 's help - after all , they should n't be trying to produce a clone ) . Find some important aspect of the subject that interests you more than your advisor , learn some useful background they do n't know well , or find a collaborator who does n't work with them . As for how committees judge this , you 've got to make a convincing case in your application . Your research statement should sound like a future leader , not a student ( do n't be arrogant , but you should n't sound like you are implementing someone else 's vision - you need to demonstrate clearly that you understand how everything fits together and are adding your own ideas ) . You need to back your research statement up with publications worthy of it , as well as some concrete ideas for future work . Your letters of recommendation should convey the impact you are already having on the field . Of course this is the best case scenario , and not every application will achieve this , but if you want to get a prestigious postdoc position and go on to a tenure-track job at a research university , then this is what you should be aiming for . You may feel like a fraud even trying to do this , since you know perfectly well that you still have much more to learn , but you should ignore these feelings . Everyone recognizes that postdoc applicants are still developing their research abilities , but it 's important to be ambitious and show what you are capable of . ( In fact , no matter how far you progress in your career , you 'll never reach the point of being able to say " OK , I 've reached my full potential and know everything I need to , " but you ca n't let that stop you . )
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
Using online material to learn is not plagiarism . This is a great way to learn ( e.g , worked examples and subgoal labeling ) and is a common way for instructors to try to teach something . Am I plagiarizing every time I use a common design pattern ? No . However , copying and pasting code from online is . It gets a little fuzzy when working on simple assignments that can be found easily online because it could be weakly argued that you are recalling it from memory . I would definitely not be concerned about this , especially if you think you understand the code and were not trying to cheat . If you 're genuinely concerned , you could even discuss it with your instructor and they might realize that they are not spending enough time discussing a certain process or giving you enough practice material . EDIT : Based on your clarification in the comments , if this is something more specific/arcane and not a tutorial on something general , then just cite it . I have done this in my programming courses before . I added a comment at the top of my code linking to the material I referenced and gave a very brief description of what it is and how I used it .
These can be useful research tools , but be specific about how your expertise in Office and Photoshop can help you with your proposed research project . Do n't just say that you are good at Office and Photoshop generally . I suspect most people have some knowledge about how to use them anyway and it wo n't be valuable information for the admission committee .
There 's two aspects to that : Licensing and academic ethics . Regarding licensing , you write that you have a license that covers personal and commercial use . Probably commercial use will include academic ( i.e. , professional ) use , but make sure that your license permits you to reuse these elements in a publication . For a poster I do n't think it will be a problem . For a research paper , you typically need to transfer copyright to the publisher , which you ca n't for these elements . So that will need special consideration . Regarding academic ethics , the way to answer this question is to think about the scientific contribution that is being made with these elements . Does the creator of these elements contribute in any way to the scientific content of your publication ? If yes , you should give an attribution , if not , an attribution is not required . It 's not clear to me how much science did go into constructing these elements , but think of the following extreme case : When writing a paper , you obviously use graphic elements , which are the font of the letters , to convey your message . But typically , you do n't attribute the creator of the font , because there 's no contribution to the scientific content . It 's really just the medium you are using to communicate your results , and you do n't need to attribute that .
I would like to answer this question for the best interest of the student 's , not yours . You are supervising bachelor students . They may go to academia or industry after graduation . If the student will pursue academic career after he graduates , then you should tell him to use the tools that are widely used in academia because it 's for his best interest . I think force is a too strong word . To convince him is what you would do . However , if he will go to industry , why waste his time to learn something he probably will never use for the rest of his life ? If the student does n't know what he wants to do after he graduates , it 's time for him to think about it now . Is n't it ? Here is my personal experience while I was in industry . I had to produce some document which contained math equations . I wanted to use LaTex . MS word was the tool I was told to use because of maintainability issue ( no one else in my department knew how to use Latex ) . I had to follow the order . Matlab is another story . It 's also used in industry .
As undergraduate research , you mostly do n't have the time , experience nor support to create a full fledge project from scratch . By that I mean creating original work in you field . Thus , given the scope of the project , implementing a software is a valuable exercice that can also be really useful for research . For exemple , in my domain ( bioinformatics ) there is a special issue of NAR ( Nucleic Acids Research ) solely devoted to webservers . The latest issue can be found <URL> I think one of the big issues you are facing ( in almost every field ) is that the amount of knowledge you get when leaving the bachelors has been pretty constant for the past 50 years . At the opposite , the level of new research has grown exponentially in these time . Thus , the gap to create something new is constantly growing .
I would say that one of the best online resources for Software Engineering is <URL> . You can browse their archives and look for summer schools there . Note that their search engine is a bit weird , if you go through " search the archive " , put Summer school in the subject and " 2010-1-1 " in the starting date ( when I leave it blank , I do n't get recent results ) . For future references , here is the result of this query : ISSSE 2012 - 9th International Summer School on Software Engineering Summer School Marktoberdorf 2012 ] Call for Application LASER Summer School 2012 : Innovative Languages for Software Engineering CALL FOR PARTICIPATION - 4th RiSE International Summer School ( RISS ) - Next Generation of Software Product Lines summer school VTSA 2011 Summer School on Technologies for Realizing Social Networks and Applications CFP : 1st Insubria International Summer School on Open Source Software ( IISSOSS 2011 ) Summer School on Mechanized Logic for High Assurance Software Canadian Summer School on Practical Analyses of Software Engineering Data UPCRC Illinois Offers Summer School on Multicore Programming 3rd International CASE Summer School on Practical Experimentation in Software Engineering - July 11-15 , 2011 - Free University of Bolzano-Bozen Summer School on Programming Languages for Concurrent and Parallel Computing 8th International Summer School on Software Engineering ( ISSSE 2011 ) [ Summer School Marktoberdorf 2011 ] Call for Application LASER Summer School 2011 : Tools for Practical Software Verification [ CFA ] Summer School on Programming Languages PL2010 CALL FOR PARTICIPATION - 3rd RiSE International Summer School ( RiSS ) - Generative Reuse Call for participation to the 3rd International Summer School on Adaptive Socio-Technical Pervasive Systems CfP ADAPT Summer School DSM-TP 2010 : 1st International Summer School on Domain Specific Modeling - Theory and Practice - Call for participation Call for participation : VTSA 2010 Summer School on Verification Technology , Systems &amp; Applications 6th REASONING WEB Summer School " Semantic Technologies for Software Engineering " Summer School on Mining Software Repositories - June 2010 , Kingston , Canada CfP : UPCRC Illinois Summer School on Multicore Programming LASER Summer School on Software Engineering TiC ' 10 : Third International Summer School on Trends in Concurrency Call for Part : CASE Summer School , Bolzano , Italy , 19-23 July 2010 CfPart : 6th TAROT Summer School on Software Testing 7th International Summer School on Software Engineering
There is nothing wrong with the word " via , " and in fact I personally have a weakness for it : sometimes it just feels more elegant and specific than alternatives like " through " or " by means of . " I also , however , have a weakness for a lot of somewhat archaic phrases , due to spending a lot of my childhood reading old books . The general principle which I think academic writing should subscribe to is Orwell 's notion of " transparent prose , " in which the words are as clear as a window , letting one through to the ideas with minimal obstruction . Using too many unusual words , such as a lot of " via " and " thus " can be distracting , particularly for an international audience . Sometimes , though , a word is simply fit and elegant in its context , and there is no reason to avoid using it .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
Powerpoint . There are hundreds of PowerPoint poster templates available online , many of them are good , and it is one of the standard formats people accept -- and can be exported to PDF for easy post-conference distribution .
There are basically no restriction on who can write a paper , so , clearly you can . If you have no affiliation , it might be hard to go publish a " free " paper ( e.g. , a technical report or a pre-print on arxiv ) , but you can always consider submitting your idea to a workshop/conference . However , you might have to pay the conferences/travel fees ( although some conferences might help you , if you ca n't afford it ) . You can also submit your idea to a journal , as many do n't charge anything to publish . You can of course also just write a PDF and put it on your website , or even do a long blog post . There is one thing you might need to be careful of , since you might not be used to write academic paper : a good paper is not just a good idea , this idea needs to be validated . In other words , you ca n't just write : " here is a cool idea I had " , you also need to describe how it differs from existing approaches ( perhaps your idea has been already published ) , and you need to describe why it 's a good idea . There are many approaches to do so , for instance by presenting your idea in a formal setting and prove that you can mitigate DDoS attacks ( probably under some assumptions ) . You can also run some experiments , and show that your approach mitigated x % more attacks than some known approaches . If you 're interested in eventually pursuing a career in academia , showing that you can explain and validate your work might be as important as having a good idea ( because not only you have a good idea , but you can convince others that it 's a good one ! ) . Note that another approach in your situation could be to implement your idea as an open-source software , and if it 's adopted by the community , then it 's another form of validation .
end question
start question
Why do so few universities offer OpenCourseWare videos of their lessons ?
Making an OpenCourseWare course is n't as simple as getting a team of kids with videocameras and uploading the course onto YouTube . There is a surprisingly high standard that the Professor and the University attempts to meet when they prepare a course to be deposited onto OpenCourseWare . Stanford had built entire classrooms for the purpose of sharing online classes . Many of them have 3-4 cameras controlled by two operators while another is entirely responsible for the sound . Classes that require a balance between boardwork , slides , and discussion require a very well-trained team of videographers to recognize what they are supposed to be looking at without breaking the rhythm of the course and capturing the intent of the lecturer . Ask any Professor how prepared their lectures are . Despite how absent-minded most professors seem , there is a large amount of practice and slidology behind each lecture . OCW adds a whole other layer to preparation since the course actually has to run on schedule and conclude with the course completed . The materials used require additional thought since OCW is limited to only a single camera . Look at some of Yale 's early OTC courses ; the professor will make references to a figure and the camera will be focused on his gestures rather than the actual information that they are trying to portray . Lastly online courses are extremely expensive and do n't truly make the return on investment as one would imagine . For instance , Utah State was forced to <URL> .
Start immediately , accept as late as possible when you are happy . If another offer comes in while you are negotiating , that 's fine . You can work on negotiating that , too . You may even have to tell the first school that you are negotiating with the second school and vice versa . There 's no point in delaying the negotiations , just the acceptance . Of course , as soon as you accept an offer ( and it 's confirmed ) , you should immediately withdraw all other pending applications .
I am always in a hurry to do the same . What I have noticed for this field is that if I predict something , I need to provide biological validation for my result . Why so ? Because this is how one knows if your results are correct and useful . A prediction is nothing if it has n't been evaluated . The field is littered with predictions that turn out to be nonsense , only hold up under very narrow circumstances , etc. . Is biological validation not the work of biologists ? No more than it would be if a biologist said " I just developed this algorithm , proving it 's correct is the work of a computer scientist . " Beyond that , there 's no reason for them to do so . " I 've made an arbitrary prediction , anyone want to validate it ? " is going to be met with a resounding " No " - the biologists have their own work to do . How can a computer science student provide biological validation for his/her prediction ? Is n't our job just to predict ? No , it 's your job to provide useful results . Validated predictions are useful . Just predictions are not . As people have noted , there are a number of ways to validate a prediction . Existing data , or even simulated data based on known biological patterns , might be sufficient . If no such data exists , it 's time to find a collaborator . Why do the journals want biological validation for the results ? Because anything else is just speculation . I did a prediction job , where I predicted some proteins to do a particular function . I communicated it to the Molecular BioSystems Journal . They rejected it saying I have no biological validation . If biologists are the one with the final say , then what point do we have in working in this domain ? Whatever we predict would be questioned . Do you know that it was rejected by a biologist ? There 's a number of computer scientists I know who would have rejected such a paper for having no biological validation . Beyond that , your " point " in working in the field is to generate those predictions and evaluate their correctness . The latter part is also an aspect of good computational biology .
Without additional details , it will be impossible to provide very detailed answers so from a general point , each case has its own solutions . The first question I would ask is , what is my part in this and how can I best help out ( best may be = nothing ) . In general I would try to help out as much as I can unless the problem lies in the realm of a conflict or personal problems . Then there is not much you can do except suggest professional help . If the candidate is a good student then I would certainly support with any letter of recommendation I could . Since you mention morale issues in the group , it suggests some form of non-trivial problem . In some cases too much help makes people fall into a false sense of security so to be shaken can be useful as long as the reasons are very clear . So without trying to read too much into what is between the lines , I think the degree of help depends on to what extent help can or should be given ( seen from an objective point ) . Probably not the most satisfactory answer but being responsible for the research education at my dept. , I have seen how difficult these matters can be . In our case , I would also be a resource to help out , if nothing else just to discuss the matter . ( This does not mean I run a research group completely without problems myself ! )
In addition to the reasons mentioned by others , I think there may be something of the <URL> about the practice : " Behold , visitor , I am a mighty scientist , capable of hunting the fearsome [ prestigious journal ] ! "
Typically I include an explicit recommendation in the report to be shared with the authors when I have a strong opinion , but not necessarily otherwise . In the former case , the editor can still decide either way ( referees make recommendations , not decisions ) , but if they disagree with me at least the authors will know for sure what the referee thought . what is the point of adding the decision statement while the overall evaluation ( i.e. on EasyChair system ) explicitly says it ? is it just the reviewer habit ? It may be habit , and it may reflect uncertainty about what information from the web form will be available to the authors .
It is important to get as much as you can in writing ( in case advisors/department chairs change , or finances change ) , but , ultimately , even that is not really a panacea , as most written documents have weasel clauses ( e.g. guaranteeing TA while you are " demonstrating sufficient progress " or " subject to available funding " . Even many faculty offers have an option to cancel before the first day of the semester . ) . Ultimately , it 's really all about your advisor and the reputation of the department . Any respectable department , should stand behind a reasonable interpretation of their oral guarantees no matter what happens ( i.e. fund you as a TA even if there is some shift in finances or availability that was not expected ) . Word spreads , especially among graduate students , and disrespectful behavior will be known among the students of the department . To sum up : - Are you joining a respectable department ? - Talk to graduate students in the department about whether this is common . - Have a backup plan just in case .
As long as you are polite and do n't come with a list of unreasonable demands , you do n't have to worry about seeming ungrateful . How should I broach the subject of receiving more funding without coming across as ungrateful Try this : " When we spoke last weekend , I got the impression that the level of funding could be negotiable . Is that still the case ? I appreciate the 50 % TA position very much , but I 'm concerned that it wo n't cover my living costs . " Is there any way to know what kinds of additional aid the university might have available Ask them : " Are there any other kinds of aid ( besides the TA position ) that I could be considered for ? "
I am not aware of any published accounts of how style rules are developed . If you really want to know why a particular rule was developed , you need to asked them directly . That said , there are a number of different styles for dealing with electronic materials and these styles are changing : MLA : You always need the date of access for electronic resources . APA : You rarely use the date of retrieval , although in previous versions ( APA 5 ) you always did CMS : You never need the date of access/retrieval . I am not sure if you ever did in earlier versions .
When I was an ( engineering , US ) undergrad , the textbook in one engineering mechanics class included problems using SI units and problems using imperial units . The problem sets for homework and exams came from the book , and could be in either SI or imperial units . ( You can see these examples in a <URL> ) . Every other class I 've taken as a physics and engineering student used SI units exclusively .
I do not view it as generally unethical to refer to these solutions . This situation is more complex than I think some other answers have admitted . Here is a list of claims : In an ideal world , the point of homework is for the student to learn the material . In a perfectly ideal world , we would not need to grade homework , because students would do it on their own to master the material . They might refer to other people 's solutions to see if theirs are correct , and that would be fine . Experience shows this world is not perfect . Students will often skip ungraded homework , and their learning and exam grades will suffer . So instructors assign homework for a grade . But this is n't because the grade is really important : it 's because we want the students to do the homework and learn the material ! Some students then get the idea that the grade is the real goal of the homework , and simply copy their assignment from others . Professors often find this unacceptable . One important point that others have answered is that , if you are going to turn in the homework , what you turn in should reflect your own understanding of the assignment . But , equally importantly , it is important to let yourself struggle with problems for a while before looking up the answer . That is the only way to really learn how to solve problems . Most professors accept that the internet exists - we know you can look up other people 's answers . It used to be that fraternities had giant files of old homework and exam answers for this purpose ( maybe they still do ) . And students study in groups all the time - research shows study groups can dramatically increase learning . So getting help is not a bad thing . But you do n't want to get help too quickly . Make a genuine effort to answer the problems yourself first . If you find that you are looking up the answers to all the problems ( even the easiest ones ) , then something is off - try going for more tutoring , or studying more before doing the homework . If you find that you occasionally need to look up one of the most difficult problems , that 's perfectly normal ( but it still would n't excuse directly copying the solution into your homework , of course ) . Of course , the usual caveats apply : some professors may specifically tell you not to collaborate with anyone or use any other resources . But most professors know that students usually collaborate with each other on homework ( e.g. study groups ) and know that students can look up answers using other resources . We have no problem with that , as long as each student 's submission reflects their own understanding in the end .
A process exists for obtaining DOI 's , including the submission of meta-data and fees . Thus , it is time and cost prohibitive for some authors / publishers to obtain DOI 's for their published works . You can find information about DOI 's here : <URL>
In many departments , tenured professors can use bringing in external funds to the department as a means of " buying " their way out of some of their teaching and administrative commitments . Similarly , other departments might use additional committee assignments and teaching loads to " punish " people who do n't bring in grants . They may also have less flexibility in selecting teaching assignments . In other countries , such as Germany , a long-term shortage in funding can lead to the consequence of a chair not being " succeeded " when the holder retires ; in that case , the institute ( equivalent to a US group ) the professor is in charge of is wound down rather than finding a new leader for the group .
Just send her/him a polite e-mail saying that although you were/are very much looking forward to working with her/him , you are taking another offer right now , but wish to stay in touch : Dear Prof. X , I am very much looking forward to working with you . However , at this time I have also received a placement offer at company Y , and I will go there . I hope we can work together in the future . Best regards , Firstname Lastname . Or something similar . If you are polite and honest , you should be fine .
I am not aware of any university having agreements with other universities about exchanging exam questions and i doubt that such agreements would exist in many places . I would wager a bet that the same is pretty much true on departmental level . On the level of individual teachers there might be many reasons why exam questions pop up in different places . One has been mentioned by Brian Borchers in a comment ( questions taken from textbooks ) . Secondly , many first - and second-year courses teach pretty standard material which often has not changed for quite a while ( e.g. basic linear algebra in many disciplines ) . For such courses ( and even some higher-level courses ) the set of questions that are useful as exam questions tends to be limited and so i would not find it surprising to find that most if not all questions have been asked somewhere and have been discussed on the web . Thirdly , it is not unheard of that teachers re-use exam questions from previous years . Fourth : sometimes teachers talk to each other and exchange experiences and material .
I have half french kids and I have spent a lot of my life in France and in the Midwest . The answer is easy - culture . Americans love recognizing everything . Participation awards , so many awards that anyone that is pretty good at something will surely get one . My 4th grader at the time got a ribbon for 4th place in a race and his French grandmother said , " Why ? " She did n't even understand it . In France if you win something you are really at the top of your game and its a big deal . They generally do n't placate to keeping self-esteem high , even with children . Things are more regulated , committees generally mean something and there is n't a lot of duplication . Now I see this slowly changing in France over the years and it becoming more westernized . Your answer is just , different culture . England is a bit the same as America except they seem to have accreditation companies and societies that also allow you to " pay " for an award .
At my institution , this planning is done separately by each department , which reduces the number of courses from " hundreds " to " dozens " . In my department , it 's done by hand , by the chair and a couple other experienced faculty members , with the aid of some spreadsheets . They are familiar with the requirements of the degree programs offered within the department , and some of the most common conflicts with other departments . ( For example , calculus is taken by many first-year physics majors , so we try not to schedule it at the same time as the intro physics lab . ) Over time , various courses have settled into " traditional " time slots which are known to work reasonably well together , so we use caution when deviating from tradition . This does mean that students with more unusual programs ( double majors , etc ) may find conflicts between required courses which can be difficult or impossible to resolve . These have to be handled case-by-case ; in some cases the department may waive or modify requirements that ca n't reasonably be satisfied .
If the agency provides funding , and you are not sure about their policy , you can always contact the person who administers your grant to find out . Some private foundations do have specific requests for acknowledgement . For example , I seem to remember that the Templeton Foundation likes authors to include a statement such as " The opinions expressed here are those of the author and not necessarily those of the John Templeton Foundation . " Your grant agent can surely tell you about this . And they will almost certainly be happy to hear you are publishing something with their support .
( Copy Editor speaking ) When designing a journal 's typesetting style , there are several things to consider : What are the paper size restrictions ? Can you choose any paper size or choose from a short list , or is it fixed ? For instance , Springer uses it 's own paper size for many publications , The journal I typeset is stuck to A4 because it 's the cheapest to print here , etc. . What font size and family is going to be used ? The smaller the size , the more characters per line you get , as well , sans-serif fonts make it harder to follow a line of text in a long paragraph . What are the typical contents of the papers ? For papers with many long paragraphs , it 's almost necessary to have narrow columns ( I 'll explain that later ) . For papers with lots of colour photos and graphics , you want to allow graphical appendices since colour printing is then cheaper and printer handling easier . For lots of math formulas , you prefer wide columns so that they fit better . For lots of very small graphics and tables , you might prefer two columns so that you can put more easily two of them next to each other . Who is going to use the final template and how ? Do you have a professional typesetter to carefully typeset all the papers ? Do your audience use Word or LaTeX more ? If they use Word , you think twice to make the journal two-column since you can be close to sure that people will mess the template up . What is " narrow " and " wide " : Narrow is basically anything with less than 66 characters per line on average . It 's been proved over centuries that this is the limit width on which the eyes are able to follow the line correctly and switch to the next line correctly . With sans-serif fonts , the width should be a bit less since the serifs significantly help to follow the line . Wide is anything that allows you to conveniently typeset long formulas . The rule-of-thumb I know is : At least 50 characters per line on average . Remember that being too wide makes it difficult to follow the lines correctly . However , this is not much an issue if the only long text in the typical articles is the introduction and most of the other paragraphs are less than 4-5 lines . The decision of Elsevier to make some journals one-column and another ones two-column on the same paper size might be , seeing the arguments above , quite justified .
Instructors often use some kind of curve to adjust for the varying difficulty of exams from one year to the next . The general idea is that if ( for example ) the class average on an exam is lower than it has been for the same course in previous years but the quality of the students ' work is the same , then the exam given this year might have been more difficult than the exam in previous years . It would be unfair to students ( and also reduces the signaling power of grades ) if their grade is strongly dependent on the year in which they happened to take the course . An instructor might choose to adjust the students ' grades to account for this . It 's generally unwise to assign grades in a way that is strictly norm-referenced , without taking into account the students ' demonstrated mastery of the course material , for reasons described in <URL> . For example , if the class average on an exam is lower than it has been in previous years , but the average quality of work submitted by students is also worse than usual , then the average grade of the class should be lower ( to preserve " fairness " and also the signaling power of grades . ) Some instructors might use a curve for other reasons , e.g. if their department has a policy about the maximum number of " A " grades an instructor can give out . ( Like <URL> . )
end question
start question
Green card or student visa ( J1 ) for a post-doc in the US ?
Get your green card as soon as possible , do not waste your time with J1 visa . As Patricia said , you have to go back to your country where the visa was issued and you ca n't come back to USA for period of time ( there is 2 years rule ) stated on your visa . It is very restricted visa . Talk to an immigrant attorney and find the quickest way to get the green card .
The legal situation in Israel I mention Israel first since am involved in a legal case before the Israeli national labor court on this very question : Arguing that those PhD candidates who are required to work all week long , who are forbidden from working outside the university , who can be required to teach up to a limit according to the needs of their academic departments etc. etc. - who contribute significantly to the research ( and teaching ) " outputs " of the university , should be considered its employees , and the monthly " stipends " that they get should be recognized again as their salary . This is case  '  5439-04-16 ( Labor Appeal 5439-04-16 ) . I 've authored a booklet on the history of this struggle , which has an English version : <URL> Or get the <URL> ; in fact , if you can read Hebrew , you can find the court case documents <URL> . The legal situation in the US Another , perhaps more relevant , legal treatment of this matter can be found in the recent ruling of the National Labor Relations board , in the case of Graduate Workers of Columbia University , UAW , AFL-CIO vs the University of Columbia ( NLRB 364-90 : HTML <URL> , <URL> ) : The court has found that , indeed , Graduate students who perform meaningful research or teaching work as part of the course of their PhD program ( and are paid ) , are considered university employees to the extent of the applicability of US labor law , especially the laws governing unionization and collective bargaining . That decision reversed the unfortunate ( 3-to-2 ) decision in the 2004 case of Brown University ( NLRB 342-42 : <URL> , <URL> ) , which had itself reversed the 2000 decision in the case of NYU ( NLRB 332-111 : <URL> , <URL> ) . See also the AAUP <URL> of the Columbia U case and their position . The actual answer I can talk for hours , literally , about this subject , and I actually have ... but in a nutshell : Being an employee and being undergoing a process of education are not mutually exclusive ; and you always learn when you 're starting out in a new career path , be it in industry or in academia . The common labor-legal criteria for being considered an employee can and do apply to many/most/all PhD candidates ( depending on which state in the world , which kind of PhD work etc. ) A university is an organization whose ongoing objectives are to produce research findings and to teach students . If you contribute towards those goals ( by performing research and teaching ) , even if you 're also undergoing a process of education yourself , you should be recognized and remunerated as such . Post-Docs only learn and are educated through practical research work ( which , of course , involves learning - but that 's the case also for the most high-ranking Professors ) ; they do n't take classes , get homework and take exams to see whether they 've studied well enough . so about them there should not be any doubt of being in relations of employment . as for why have PhD candidates when you can have Post-docs - I 've already written enough , let others discuss that :-)
Yes and no . Student status does not lead to reduced taxation in Germany ( that should hold for non-locals , too ) . Instead , low incomes and scholarships are not subject to tax , which is probably what you are referring to . The maximum amount for scholarships before they are subject to taxation is said to be higher for non-Germans , though . As a student , health insurance is also cheaper . You are unlikely to get the cheaper health insurance as a PhD student as well . Depending on the state in which you do your PhD , you may or may not be allowed to enroll as a PhD student , so you may lose benefits such as cheaper food in the student canteen . Other than that , see the links provided in the comments to your question by Wolfgang Kuehne , as the taxation situation is very much dependent on how your PhD studies are funded . However , being subject to taxation and full-fee health insurance is not necessarily bad , as if you manage to find a 100 % paid scientific employee position ( which is not uncommon for CS ) , you will see that the net income is actually quite ok - even if you take the higher accommodation cost in Munich into account .
It is a tremendous generalization to speak of all programs having the same default decision , or all members of an admissions committee in a program having the same default decision , or even to assume the existence of a default decision at all . In reality , a more likely consideration an admissions committee member might use is , " Does this candidate have similar credentials and experience to successful PhD students we have admitted in the past ? " ( i.e. , no " default " decision . ) However , if we 're going to generalize and assume the existence of a default decision : For programs in which there are a large number of applicants for relatively few positions , the default decision for any applicant is " reject , unless the applicant is extremely strong . " For programs in which there are relatively few applicants for a large number of positions , the default decision is " accept , unless there is some evidence this student is unsuitable for the program . " Programs at top-ranked departments , in fields where PhDs are in high demand , and where PhD students are generally fully funded , are more likely to fall in the first category . Programs at lower-ranked departments , in fields where PhDs are not in high demand , and where students usually fund themselves , are more likely to fall in the second category . The nationality of the applicant is not generally relevant in the " default " decision , barring exceptional circumstances ( e.g. , admissions committees in nuclear engineering at U.S. universities may reject Iranian students by default since 2012 because they will be <URL> . )
First , check the fine print in the paper itself . Some journals ask the authors to designate one person as the " contact author " or " corresponding author " , and distinguish that author with a notation and a mark on the author list . If that is the case , then that is the person that you should write to . Beyond that , since the professor is well-known in your field , know that you are unlikely to end up doing much direct collaboration with them in any case , simply because they probably already have many different projects in progress . The student is also more likely to respond at all for the same reason . You ca n't know before writing , however , whether you 'd mostly likely end up working with this Ph.D. student or somebody else : if the student still has some years to go , you 'd likely end up collaborating with them ; if they are about to defend , they might either be " taking the project " or handing it off to another student . So if there is n't one person designated as contact author , write to both ( as ff524 suggests in the comments ) , and let them decide how to respond .
It definitely has . And by that , it has an impact even on academic life outside of the US . One of the most important data and literature resource in medical and life science is the US <URL> , running for example the literature database PubMed . Now it has a statement on its website saying Due to the lapse in government funding , the information on this web site may not be up to date , transactions submitted via the web site may not be processed , and the agency may not be able to respond to inquiries until appropriations are enacted . Concerning the National Institute of Health , the website <URL> states that Research into life-threatening diseases and other areas will stop , and new patients wo n't be accepted into clinical trials at the National Institutes of Health I 'm not sure how to interpret this , but it could mean that the research personnel is on unpaid leave .
In the U.S. , " professor emeritus " simply means " retired professor " . It 's a courtesy title offered to retiring professors to acknowledge their continued scholarly role even after formal retirement . It typically includes library privileges and a computer account , and emeritus professors may also have offices ( this depends on departmental policy and the availability of space ) . It 's sometimes possible to teach , but this is a special arrangement rather than a job requirement . At many universities every retired faculty member is offered this title , with rare exceptions for people who committed misconduct or angered the administration . At other universities one has to apply for the title and make a case for why it is justified . In particular , professor emeritus is not a higher title or special distinction . It can be viewed as a retirement incentive : even after retirement , you 'll still have a respected role as well as necessities like library access . However , there 's no advantage to becoming an emeritus professor beyond the benefits of retiring from your job ( i.e. , giving up duties and focusing only on what you prefer ) .
If the grant is only to reimburse you for your travel expenses ( airfare , lodging , meals , etc ) , then you should be fine with the visa waiver . You are not considered to be employed by the host institution and do not need a work visa . ( Source : Personal experience - I 've been responsible for arranging travel reimbursements for many visa-waiver visitors . ) You will probably need to document your expenses , so save receipts for airfare , lodging , meals , ground transportation , and so on .
This is , of course , ultimately up to you , people can only advise you ; I will provide a list of some things to think about ; hopefully this will help :) You say that you want to " do a good research project " . Is n't that what the master 's project is for ? I do n't know anything about unofficial projects but it could work . Yes , taking a break from academia would be a slight disadvantage , but if you 're doing an unofficial project , then this wo n't be a problem at all , will it ? " High impact research " , in my opinion , is a very ambitious/risky thing to set your mind on , in terms of a master 's - level project . Do n't forget that as a master 's student , you are still expected to be learning ; a PhD supervisor is unlikely to expect something like this , although they would like it ! Can you do a project over summer ? In the UK at least , there are loads of paid internships and summer projects available , both with universities and industry .
My experience of business cards in academia is that they are mostly just an easier way to share contact information than scribbling it on a napkin . As such , the only things that are really important are institution , name , title ( because everybody will expect it ) , and sets of preferred contact information . As such , if you want people calling you , put down your phone number ; if you do n't want people calling you , do n't put it down . Likewise for all of the other standard aspects . You probably should have a web page that you want people to visit . As for social media sites like LinkedIn : I 'm rather dubious about them , simply because there are potentially so many . I think one would n't be a problem , but the extrapolator in my mind goes to a ridiculous image of somebody handing me a card with their LinkedIn , Twitter , Google + , ResearchGate , Facebook , etc. . Do n't be that person , or else if I meet you at a conference and you hand me your card , I may have a difficult time avoiding laughter .
You already have the answer from your advisor . He is the one who knows the circumstances and can make the call if he want to . You can ask , but be careful how you do it . Remember , if he wanted to do it , he would have done it already instead of asking you to cut the paper . Yes , if its close enough , and he feels that grant has been supporting his activities ...
The term " Open Access " has been used in numerous ways ( see <URL> ? ) , but in this context , Gold stands for publications available directly from the publisher , where as Green means that a version is available somewhere else ( e.g. on an author 's institutional website , or in a repository ) , a practice commonly referred to as " self-archiving " . Note that neither of these two terms imply anything about reuse rights or about who shoulders the costs of publishing . That colour spectrum has been expanded a bit to include <URL> as well as <URL> , but these terms are used neither widely nor consistently . For instance , both platinum and diamond have been used to describe models where OA is provided by the journal and neither readers nor authors have to pay .
One-year master 's programs in computer science are usually terminal course-based degrees . They are essentially useless for a future research career , because they do not include time to do research . ( PhD admissions committees care about your research potential much more than your grades . ) Put brutally , professional MS programs exist for the sole purpose of trading tuition for the promise of a higher salary . The advantage of these programs is that successful graduates ( at least from my department ) actually do get higher salaries , and the program only takes one year . Also , if you work for a particularly enlightened employer , they may be willing to ( help ) pay your tuition . Two-year master 's programs in computer science are more research-based . In addition to classes , most research master 's students write a thesis describing original research ; that 's why it takes two years instead of just one . That 's also one of the advantages of the program ; you have more time to learn outside the formal classroom environment . You may also be able to secure funding through research or teaching assistantships ; these are almost unheard of for professional master 's students . The disadvantage is that if you 're not interested in research , the program takes two years instead of one . On the other hand , a research masters seems to have the same effect on salary as a professional masters , in part because it 's impossible to tell from a resume what type of MS you have .
When did you graduate ? A new law came into effect in 2010 which requires that all new postdoc hires of individuals who held a PhD for more than 2 years at the start of the contract be only given L permits . ( I only found out after I had a similar discussion with human resources a few weeks ago . ) If you have had your degree for less than 2 years , it is possible your university can sort it out for you . If you have had your degree for more than 2 years , there 's pretty much nothing the universities can do ( aside for lobbying for a change of the law ) . In regards to bank services : for a place to put your money , try <URL> for which you can open an account at most post offices . They care a bit less about the issue with the permits . The main problem with having an L instead of a B permit , with regards to banking in general , is that they may be unwilling to give you a credit card or extend you a loan ; you should n't have problem getting a place to put your money .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
U.S. Immigration Law : While doing a summer internship would be seen as compatible with still being a full-time student because of the extended American summer , if you did the 6-month internship you may have difficulty arguing that you are still a full-time , enrolled student . You need to ask your university foreign student 's office for advice as to how you can retain your F-1 status .1 French Immigration Law : You need to clarify with the French company that you will have a valid visa status while in the EU . University Policy : As with US immigration law , you need to make sure that your status in the program is not interrupted by the internship . 1 . Note that CPT ( Curricular Practical Training ) does not apply as you are not applying to work within the USA . The main concern is that your absence for 6-months is not seen as a disruption of your studies from the perspective of maintaining your F1 visa . Your international students office should be able to advise how to maintain your student status . The bonus is that you should be able to use your OPT year in its full since you did not take a CPT .
For US universities applications are almost universally prescreened for completeness and meeting any stated minimum requirements . The prescreen in process is almost always extremely rigid when minimum requirements are set . The wording on website is often confusing since sometimes schools want to be able to make special acceptances to people who do not meet the minimums . This requires someone from the department to beg and plead with the admin team . One place there is generally no flexibility at all is TOEFL requirements . It would be perfectly reasonable to call/email the department and ask , large departments get many such requests every year . Just realize that the answer will likely be the minimum is the minimum .
It does n't matter what the supervisor 's Ph.D. was in , originally : fields are protean and careers take all sorts of strange paths . What really matters is whether the supervisor 's knowledge is sufficient to supervise the research that the student will be conducting . That depends on the path of their career , the precise focus of the student 's research , etc. . My advisor , for example , had a Ph.D. in mathematics ( since computer science did n't really exist as a separate field yet ) , but has worked in artificial intelligence , electrical engineering , physics , VLSI , biological modeling , and astronomy , and would be quite appropriate to supervise students in projects in any of those fields , if their focus and his background had sufficient overlap . Likewise , my background in artificial intelligence was no barrier to supervising a biology Ph.D. ( which I have done ) , given the path of my own research over time .
The importance of any single metric is binary and its value ( important or not ) depends on the size of the department . If the department is big admissions committees use metrics to weed out candidates . Basically anyone with GPA/GRE below X is triaged ( does n't matter what school you went to , how good your references are , etc ) . Smaller departments generally look at all applications . Once your applications is looked at , it is considered as a whole . There is no formula by which good GRE scores can offset a bad GPA . Obviously a better GPA does n't hurt , but you really want to worry about the things you can control . For example , good research experience tends to trump everything else .
If you go to top schools overseas , you should be fine . You can always explain your decision by saying that you needed to travel , help developing countries , explore opportunities . In my field , many Chinese schools have very high-tech requirements in their labs ! My old school ( not in China ) has unlimited funding ! So , research wise , it might be a good idea to travel for a year or two to establish a good working relationship with labs and schools . Many of the professors ( engineering ) I know will go to the Gulf region and work in Dubai/Kuwait for a sabbatical year or even as a visiting professor ( 1-3 years ) because of the good pay ( can get up to 140-160k ) , benefits ( paid housing , car , air tickets , schooling etc ) , no taxes , less stress ( no need to write proposals or get funding ) . As long as you keep your contacts in the US/Europe " happy " , you should be fine . I know some professors will hold international conferences and put their colleagues on committees ! I know some will hold 1-2 days seminars/workshops and invite their previous department chair as a keynote speaker or lecturer for crash-courses ( they make easy money out of this ) .
end question
start question
What if you have submitted a research article in a reputed journal that has a slight error ?
In order to answer this question , we need to define some magnitudes of errors . A small error does not affect the conclusions and if the manuscript was accepted as is could be fixed in the proof stage before the manuscript goes to press . A minor error does not affect the conclusions but requires too many changes to be made that it could not be fixed in the proof stage . A substantial error affects the conclusions and would require the manuscript to be re-reviewed . If you have found a substantial error , you need to contact the editor and request the manuscript be pulled from the review process . You do not want to waste the time of the editor and reviewers . A small error can either be ignored or reported to the editor if you think that the correction will help save the reviewers time . Minor errors are the real problem . There is no easy way to tell the editor/reviewer what is wrong , but an unclear manuscript is likely to get negative reviews . I would suggest contacting the editor and explaining and apologizing for the problem . The real question should be how did you find the error ? What are you doing looking at a manuscript after it has been submitted ?
[ Note : my experience is from mathematics . I guess most will still be applicable in other fields , but I do n't have first-hand experience . ] It probably does n't matter directly . For any kind of job application , grant application , etc , you will be assessed on ( among other things ) the quality and notability of your research . How exactly people assess that will depend on how close they are to your work . Specialists in your own subfield will be able to judge your work on its own merits , regardless of where it 's published . People in related fields will have to judge it indirectly , and may look at ( among other things ) the prestige of the journals you publish in -- but they probably have a better idea of the journals ' reputation than just the impact factor . The impact factor may matter most when the assessment is by people outside your subject -- for instance , some government research agencies or university administrations have official criteria that include impact factors or similar metrics . For post-docs ( at least in my experience in maths ) , the main people judging your application will be your potential research group leaders , and their immediate colleagues . So they will be able to judge your work directly -- so impact factor probably is not too relevant there . Long-term jobs and grant applications are much more likely to be assessed , in part , by people not in your own field , or according to fixed criteria . So for these , impact factor and similar metrics are more likely to matter . ( How much they matter depends a lot on the specific country , institution , and field you are in . ) However , I 've never heard of the criteria being as crude as " the sum of the impact factors of the journals you published in is close to 10 " .
The big underlying question here is what it means for a paper to be " related to a grant " . Different funding agencies have different rules on this , either a more " staff-oriented view " or a more " topic-oriented view " . Many pure science funds , for instance the <URL> , take a liberal stance on what kind of science can be enabled through each individual project . Essentially , while a project is given to support a specific idea , they are fully aware and quite happy that in addition to , and sometimes instead of , this project , other more or less related studies will also happen by the staff paid partly or in full through the project . At the end of the day , the SNF and other similar agencies care not so much about the specific piece of science that is described in the project , but that some valuable science is happening and that PhD students are graduating . Based on this view , researchers funded through SNF are expected to acknowledge them on every paper they do , no matter if it has to do with any of the science described in the project description . The collection of all papers acknowledging this project is then not understood as " all papers on topic X " , but rather " all topics enabled by funding project Y , on topic X and any side projects that the funded students did in addition or instead " . Other , especially more applied funds such as most of the European Commission 's <URL> programme , are much more interested in specific topics than in funding just about any research . For them , acknowledgements have much more the meaning that you seem to imply , that is , that citing this project in the acknowledgements of the paper implies that this contributes to the mission of the project . How strongly this is enforced or checked depends on the project officer . Most people also seem to take a rather liberal approach in practice , but there are certainly project officers that have formally complained about projects using the allocated funds to sponsor other research . Might he go into troubles if it is discovered by the funding agency that the papers are actually not related to the grant proposal ? So at the end of the day , it really depends on whether the agency actually considers this " topically unrelated but financially enabled by the grant " paper as " unrelated " . I would say , in absence of any other information , you can safely assume that your co-author did nothing wrong , and that the agency may be fine with this acknowledgement .
Two things are unclear about your question Is there anything I can do that does n't violate the confidentiality of the peer review process to address the problem ? : What is the goal of any intervention ? Why do you think that anything should be done ? If , for example , you aim for retraction , I guess this could be difficult . You may go for this on the ground that you can prove that the authors were aware of the flaws you pointed out and submitted the paper knowing that there was something wrong . The journal may have some rule that the authors have to certify that the results are true to the best of their knowledge . If this really is so , you may have some angle of attack . If you aim for correction by the authors , it could also be difficult . However , you could consider writing a letter to the editor , pointing out what is wrong and then ask if the journal would publish such a letter . Some journals I know have such formats . You could also do follow-up research on the same topic and write a paper yourself where you refer to the paper with flaws and describe what wrong there . For the second question , it sounds like you feel that " What 's published and peer-reviewed should be true . " While this resonates with me , it 's not something that is close to true now and probably never will be . Mistakes happen . You may then trust in the scientific community that the flawed paper will be perceived as such in the long run and find peace with this particular paper . Finally , the premise that confidentiality of the peer review process may permit some actions is not totally clear . As I wrote in a comment , I asked a <URL> and got very different responses .
You cite precisely the version that you use and add something like " 5th edition " ( that is what the " edition " - entry is there for in BibTeX ) . Be careful to use the correct year !
I would use some of the following : submitted under review submitted to ... and do not stress that there is already a revision going on . Even revised papers may get rejected , so being in revision is no guarantee to get the paper published . I also would not state the journal to which the paper is submitted to because I do not see how this says anything about the quality of the paper . If you think , that the paper is good and interesting for whoever reads the CV , make it available as a preprint and provide a link . I myself have a section " Preprints " in my CV where I list submitted but not published papers with links to the arXiv and add the line " submitted , month , year " .
From your comments it sounds like a Setup-to-fail syndrome . <URL> The Wiki article is a bit iffy , but it basically means that he somewhat has low expectations of your performance after some incident . Thereby , when something happens he assumes is your fault because he has low expectations nevertheless . Is usually a toxic relationship because is self fulfilling ( you 'll end up making mistakes , because he wants to ) and self reinforcing ( the mistake you just did helps him reinforce the idea that you 'll make more ) . Is a vicious circle that has to be addressed by both you and your boss ( PI , manager , etc ) . But is usually a good idea to have some other people on your side . Ultimately , if he is unwilling to change , it is better for you to leave for a less toxic environment .
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
Do n't worry about it too much , just say thank you . In person or over email are both fine : getting a good recommendation letter is a big deal for you , but writing recommendation letters for good students is a part of normal routine for a professor .
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
Ca n't you look at author biographies from other papers in that journal ?
The other answers already explain that no , you should n't be doing research all the time , with no time for breaks , relaxation and other interests . All this is quite correct . However , I am a bit unsure whether the stark dichotomy " all research all the time " versus " a few hours in the morning " is really helpful here . Maybe an answer to the following question is more helpful : Is doing a Ph.D. right for you if you plan on doing it as a 9-5 job , 40 hours per week ? And there , I would be a bit more careful . Yes , there are people who can do a Ph.D. like a " normal job " , at their desk at 9am sharp and dropping their pencils at 5pm . It is possible . However , my personal impression is that these people will avoid the typical Ph.D. burnout , but they will likely not be top performers . So my answer to the modified question above is : You will probably do fine with a 40 hour workweek , if you make sure to stay self-motivated . However , you should think deeply about just why you want to do a Ph.D. . . because unless you are uncommonly brilliant , you will likely not be productive enough to stay in academia and compete with people who routinely put in 50-60 hours per week . You may want to think about leaving academe with the Ph.D. and going into industry . Note that I am not saying " 40 hour Ph.D. students " are lazy . However , if you ca n't work up the level of passion and commitment to your topic that makes you want to put in 50-60 hours per week often , then there will likely be someone else , and that someone else will have more publications five or ten years down the road .
Keeping in time is mandatory In general , you can expect to be cut off if you are over the time limit , so you definitely should shorten your presentation - it 's very likely that important parts of your talk are at the end so it 's very important not to lose the ending ! In most fields , presentations are very , very different from the actual content of the paper - if someone wants to read the paper , they can do so at any time ; but the presentation should cover why they 'd want to read your paper afterwards and also explain things that might be easier to show or demonstrate rather than read about . Even if in your field tradition is to read the paper as-is , that is optional but keeping the schedule is mandatory . I would suggest to reduce some parts that describe the background/foundation/earlier results which would be known by the conference attendees but might be less known for a general reader of your paper . You should mention earlier work , but you do n't need to go into detail about that even if you do so in your paper . Keep the focus of your talk on the novel parts of your paper , and also make sure cover in detail the motivation of this research and it 's wider context in your field .
I am aware of no University that automatically does anything . That said , most Universities , have policies in place to protect their reputation . At Cambridge , both <URL> and <URL> have almost identical policies which makes me think there is an underlying university policy that I can not easily find . To quote Griton 's policy : Additionally , the University has a number of sanctions for behaviour impinging on the image of the University , while the most serious breaches , including all criminal behaviour , will be referred to the local police . Basically , Universities should be reporting any criminal activity to the local authorities . They also have the right to follow their own policies , of which expulsion is a possibility . Universities like to protect their images ( e.g. , the recent sex offence scandals in the US ) . So what the University will do may depend on if the victim of the crime was another student and how vocal the sides are .
There are sometimes " remark " blocks that some authors use for discussing aspects that are of substantial interest to some readers but do not strictly belong to the core of the story that you are telling . If you are preparing your document with LaTeX , then such text blocks are called " environments " . An example is given in the Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science <URL> , page 4 at the bottom .
Learn how to say NO . It is very easy to say yes to every PC invitation , every paper collaboration , every committee , every this and every that . But this spreads your time too thin and means that you perform far less than optimally at everything you do . Ultimately , work encroaches too much on family time , and life becomes less enjoyable . Also , learn how to teach properly . Take a teaching course or two . It will make your job easier and increase the amount you enjoy teaching . See also : <URL> . Many of my comments there are applicable .
I 've been putting off answering this because it 's really a legal question , not an academic question , and I 'm a computer scientist . In my one business law course , I learned that the essence of a contract is an offer and an acceptance . We have those . If I were in this boat , I 'd probably suck it up and apply elsewhere . If I really-really wanted to go to the school that first accepted , then rejected me , I 'd consider paying a lawyer a few hundred dollars to call the counsel for the university . My lawyer would say something like , " My client is damaged blah-blah and has cause of action blah-blah . However , we do not want to be unreasonable . All we want you to do is honor the offer you made in writing and later confirmed verbally . Um , and keep these circumstances confidential from anyone who could assign a grade to or otherwise evaluate my client . " There is a huge down side to doing that . It is that the circumstances are quite likely to leak out . Then one is facing professors who know how one was admitted .
<URL> offers this . To use this feature , you are required to register and sign in to your account . Once you are logged in , find the Calls for Papers ( CFPs ) you are interested in and choose " Add to my list " . ( You can add multiple CFPs at a time if they appear in the same search results or " recent CFPs " list ) . Then , from the sidebar , choose " My list " or " Timeline " to see all the deadlines for the conferences you have selected in your preferred format . Timeline view is pretty nice ; it shows you the registration , submission , notification , and camera-ready deadlines , as well as the dates of the actual conference . Here is a screenshot : However , WifiCFP relies on user-submitted content ( for both original CFP submissions , and updates e.g. , for deadline extensions ) . So the usefulness of this for you will depend on how active people in your field are on WikiCFP .
I believe you may get some tips from the answers to a question of mine on this very site : <URL> As for myself , I list the peer-reviews I have done in a " Administrative and collective duties " or " Community involvement " . Or , in a short CV which does n't have such divisions , I put it with the broader " Other skills and activities " section ( i.e. not teaching , not research projects ) . What I include is : list of journals for which I act as reviewer ( " Regular reviewer for many chemistry journals , including ... " ) funding bodies ( NSF , private trusts , etc. ) for which I act as expert ( including , e.g. , NSF division , but not the exact programs ) evaluation committees on which I sit It feels obvious , but it 's always worth repeating : do not include any confidential information , such as titles or author lists for reviewer papers or projects . I think it 's safe to list the number of reviews performed for each outlet if you want ( but I do n't do it ) .
Web of science does n't explain it on the page you quote , but you can find it in another page with detailed explanation : " The plus sign on this last abbreviation indicates that cites to the original language journal are unified with cites to the translation title " From here : <URL>
end question
start question
Are there any proposals to make sharing code and data with publications a requirement ?
The academic ' process ' is an unregulated mess of random , contradictory habits To directly answer your question , NO , there are n't any global regulations on what conferences or publishers should require or how they should do anything else . It 's a key point of academic independence - anybody is free to run their academic conferences or publications as they like . There is an unwritten consensus on what constitutes good practice , but it 's not regulated , it 's not mandatory , it varies across academic fields , and it varies across countries . Change happens by convincing lots and lots of unrelated people and organizations Any proposals to change something ( say , make source code sharing a must ) only become real when lots of separate organizers ( most of them who never ever hear about each other ) in different fields agree that it 's a good idea ; that it benefits them without making it too hard for them ; and take the initiative to implement it . It helps if some academic subfield implements the practice and it 's widely seen as working well . The only force is funding Large funding agencies have the only practical power , as if they make funding conditional on X , then people will try to get X - or at least something that on paper looks similar to X. Note that if they do n't think that X benefits them , then it will be the latter option ; doing the very minimum possible to tick a checkbox " yes we do have X " . And it 's by definition not a global regulation , but a country-specific one .
Answer to 1 : Where should I host my code ? Depending on what your University offers you , you could choose to host it with the University , or perhaps with an open-source repository such as Github , Bitbucket , SourceForge , or similar . Many of these services have a " paid " subscription option for private repositories if those are required . Answer to 2 : What open-source license should I choose ? This question is relevant because we 're having this discussion right now within one of our own research projects . I happen to know a little about open source software , having researched it in the past and having taught a few courses on it . Though there are a lot of open-source licenses out there , they really end up coming in two main families . They 're either permissive open licenses ( ex : MIT , BSD , Apache ) or they are Free ( GNU Public License v2 or GPLv3 ) . Here 's a brief lowdown by the <URL> Permissive open licenses These licenses generally allow you to release your code and anyone can do anything with them that they want as long as they retain certain copyright information with the code . In reality , this has a number of implications . Someone could take your entire code base , create a product with it , and sell it . Someone could take parts of your code , put it in their own project ( commercial or not ) . Because the license is more permissive , you yourself could take the code , close it , and then keep under wraps any future releases so you can make money off of the code or hide it from the public . Because the license is more permissive , you might generate more interest as a result . People may take code from other projects and use it to improve yours . On the flip-side , they could also make improvements for your source code and never share them back with you . On the flip-side , the GNU GPL is a Free Software License that disallows you from doing certain things . In that sense , it 's more restrictive , but does so for a number of ideological reasons . If you release software under the GPL , you ca n't close-source it . Ever . It 's going to remain in the open , and if someone asks you for the source code you are obligated by the terms of the license to provide it ( if you host it on Github or another public repository , then you have already satisfied this requirement ) . A company could take the code and make products with it and sell it ( it 's their right to do so ) , but they would have to do so under the condition that any source code that they write for the project is also released under the GPL . Because of this , a lot of companies who make a lot of money writing software do n't like this because they have to continually release code to the public . On the flip-side , any cool stuff that they do gets put into the public under the GPL , so you could fold it back into your project and improve it . They ca n't take your code , improve it , and then never share it again . If you happen to have used any GPL code in your project ( let 's say you took a few lines out of the Linux kernel or Git version control or whatever ) then you 'll have to release your code as GPL as well . In the end , the choice of license affects more about how you want the software to be used ( and the eventual community it might bring in ) . If you plan to commercialize the software , ( and implicitly allow others to do the same ) , then you might want to lean BSD . If you do n't want people to take your hard work and profit off of it without showing you the results , then you want to go GPL . If you do n't care either way , then you could probably just choose one . I think BSD is popular in academia precisely because of the commercialization aspect ( for example LLVM is gaining a lot of traction because of its permissive license ) . Answer for 3 : How do I make it easy for others to run the code ? You make it easy to run code by engineering it to be easy to run and by being extremely detailed with your documentation . Packaging/distribution can actually be pretty hard and usually take more effort than most people would think . A good way to make the software easy to run is to test it on multiple machines . Make sure that you 're not forgetting any of the libraries that you 're using in your software project , for example , and when possible , try to use software libraries that are common and well-maintained . Use mainstream languages with easy-to-manage package repositories . When appropriate , use installers , installer scripts , Makefiles ( distutils , which uses automake/autoconf is better ) , etc. . Even shell scripts are better than nothing . If you can provide binaries and/or an installer , that will make things even easier . The problem is that this is a LOT of work ! Accompany it with documentation . Ideally , the documentation will contain a description of how to set it up and run it , with descriptions of necessary packages/libraries , data that you might have to get , and what to type or click on . Usually , something called README or INSTALL will attract attention . Put the instructions on the web page as wel
No . Once you have a PhD , nobody cares about your previous degrees , or if you even graduated from high school . ( I know at least one <URL> . )
Re : The desire for in-class exercises ( code " on the spot " ) -- One thing I 've discovered this semester ( teaching introductory C++ out of the Gaddis textbook ) is the idea of laboratory exercises with mostly filled-in programs , where the students only need to add a few lines involving the new language structures that you just lectured about . Compared to " write a whole program right now " exercises that I 'd used in the past , this goes down remarkably well ; fits in the right time slot for everyone , gets their hands/eyes to have typed that structure at least once , raises up the salient points/difficulties of exactly that one topic , etc. . The fill-in lab exercises I 'm doing come directly from the Gaddis instructor materials , so that eases my workload a lot . Frankly , I would n't have expected them to work as well as they do , but every day there 's an important teachable moment that emerges organically . Not a silver bullet for everyone , but it 's kind of been a revelation this semester .
I would imagine this may vary from field to field , but in the biological sciences the caption text in journal publications is often verbose to the point of absurdity . That being said , I would simply use common sense ; If the description takes more than a paragraph , you should definitely " refer to text " . Generally speaking , the caption is simply a textual guide as to how to read the plot , with ( maybe ) a sentence drawing the reader 's attention to a particular feature of the plot . It should mostly describe the plot , and only sparingly discuss it .
No , there is not . Speaking as somebody who has dealt with a number of special issues on both sides of the editorial table , there is simply too little coherence in how different journals advertise their special issues . Sometimes it 's hard even to find a coherent explanation of how a journal is approaching special issues even on its own website . Maybe somebody like Google could address this , but it would be a hard problem requiring either serious investment in human curation or serious natural language processing mojo .
Yes , try looking at the <URL> and their study management website , the <URL> . They primarily deal in psychology and cancer biology studies right now , but I 'm sure other areas of science are welcome or will be soon .
1 . Consider non-proprietary format as a good practice You might find an argument in the Tim Berners-Lee <URL> . When discussing Open Data ( something we should be embracing more in academia as well ) , he presents the following : Under the star scheme , you get one ( big ! ) star if the information has been made public at all , even if it is a photo of a scan of a fax of a table -- if it has an open licence . The you get more stars as you make it progressively more powerful , easier for people to use .  Available on the web ( whatever format ) but with an open licence , to be Open Data   Available as machine-readable structured data ( e.g. excel instead of image scan of a table )    as ( 2 ) plus non-proprietary format ( e.g. CSV instead of excel )     All the above plus , Use open standards from W3C ( RDF and SPARQL ) to identify things , so that people can point at your stuff      All the above , plus : Link your data to other people 's data to provide context It is best to publish in an non-proprietary format ( csv would be fine ) as you claimed . Stars 4 &amp; 5 are for Linked Data structure which is a nice thing to aim . 2 . Publish in a reliable repository thinking long-term preservation Citation and versioning are very important if you want to alter something on your data-sets in the future . I would recommend you publish your data in <URL> . Research made publicly available of figshare gets allocated a DataCite DOI at point of publication . It supports versioning as well . Another alternative for a repository is <URL> suggested by <URL> below
It is not uncommon to use data from other studies . The caveats deal with data quality . Even if the data is provided with error bars , you can still not necessarily rely on it being completely accurate . Typos can occur and other errors could enter data sets by mistake . I have seen such cases personally , data that when analysed yields different results than presented in a paper . If you use a data set that comes from a paper , you should make sure it at least yields the same results as the published paper , since that is what has been officially concluded . This does , however , not mean all is good so I would always threat data with varying degrees of healthy scepticism . The problem is particularly bad if you rely on the data to draw far reaching conclusions on your own . I can see situations where this could be life threatening and situations where it would lead to sending research off in the wrong direction but also , most often no major issues . So depending on how you rely on the data for vital conclusions , you need to adept your critical scrutiny of the data . This may seem like I forebode a catastrophe but the key point is just to not take everything published at face value .
In general , you 're in a very tough situation . Most of the " big name " fellowships are moving away from funding older students , on the relatively flimsy rationale that they 're making a bigger impact by funding less experienced students from the start of their program . There are a few programs that do support late-term graduate students ; these are typically known as dissertation fellowships . Examples include the <URL> , but these also have other restrictions associated with them ( for instance , a commitment to a teaching career ) . Similarly , the <URL> primarily supports environmental and energy-related research , while the <URL> is for African-American students in biomedical-related fields . So there are resources available , but they are certainly very limited in scope , and you 'll need to make sure you meet all of the qualification criteria . The other problem for you is that these fellowships are typically only one year in duration , so if , as you say , you are two years away from finishing , you will need to find some means to finance one year of study , either through TA 's or other sources of funding . In the meanwhile , you should talk with your advisor if there are other resources within the group to help you -- at least partially .
I have used Piazza in many mathematics courses . I can say , anecdotally but confidently , that students LOVE the anonymity option . Not everyone uses it , but I have had plenty of them tell me , either in person or ( anonymously ! ) on course evaluations , that they appreciate the option since they can ask a seemingly " dumb " question without fear of appearing ignorant or uninformed . Perhaps this is particularly relevant in mathematics , where anxiety and performance-based fear is , alas , quite normal , but I 'd imagine students in other disciplines would make similar comments .
Is there any research on the question : how common is academic theft , really ? Such as surveys of people having experienced ( or committed ! ) such theft according to an appropriate definition , possibly compared to peoples perception as to the risks . See the related articles : De Vries , Raymond , Melissa S. Anderson , and Brian C. Martinson . " <URL> " Journal of empirical research on human research ethics : JERHRE 1.1 ( 2006 ) : 43 . and Martinson , Brian C. , Melissa S. Anderson , and Raymond De Vries . " <URL> " Nature 435.7043 ( 2005 ) : 737-738 . Among a sample of 3,247 NIH-funded scientists in the United States , asked about the behavior " Using another 's ideas without permission or giving due credit " : 1.4 % said they themselves have engaged in this behavior within the last three years 45.7 % agreed with the statement , " I have observed or had other direct evidence of this behavior among my professional colleagues including postdoctoral associates , within the last three years . " Please read the article for methodology , limitations , etc. .
In mathematics , some graduate degrees are offered online , but you should be careful . There are real advantages to doing it in person , and most of the schools offering online degrees are not well respected , so if you select a program based on internet advertising , you will probably waste your money without learning very much or ending up with a valuable credential . ( It 's depressing how many businesspeople view distance education as just a money making opportunity , without any serious commitment to doing a good job . When you investigate online education , please keep in mind that many web sites are trying to sell you something of questionable value . ) One respectable example is the University of Washington , which offers an online M.S. in applied mathematics , and there are some others like this . They could be viable options if attending in person is impossible . I do not know of any well respected math graduate program from a 100 % distance education university in the US , so you should be very suspicious of such programs , although perhaps they exist in other countries ( Open University ? ) . There is no worthwhile online Ph.D. program in mathematics . If your only goal is to get the degree itself , for example to move up in a salary scale for a job you already have , then it might be possible , but you would have to look carefully to make sure the program is accredited , and even so it wo n't be an impressive addition to your CV . If you are hoping for a career in academia or industrial research , do n't even think about an online Ph.D. . If an institution offers an online Ph.D. in mathematics , and presents it as being just as good and respected as a traditional Ph.D. , then you should be extremely suspicious of the entire institution . As for computer science , I do n't know as much about online master 's programs , but the issues are similar and I imagine the conclusions are as well . The online Ph.D. situation is definitely the same as in math .
Since I 'm not really sure what is available in the GIS field for research I wo n't try to answer that part , but when I was in university I did some consultant work for a GPS company called <URL> . They had me in to help with some database stuff , but much of what they did seemed to be making custom gps/gis maps for various clients . For example they might have a client who is a fisherman that needs a map of all his fishing areas , or where his traps are . Another example could be a wildlife preserve where they need to keep track of the animals with gps trackers in realtime . Either way it would fit both your skillsets . This is just a industry example and you seem to me more looking for a research position or ideas .
For nice graphical note editing/drawing : If you get the hang on it , you probably could use <URL> Your notes would look great , and you can always zoom in and out , if you want to add details . For sharing your notes everywhere ( web/smartphone ) : see <URL> , another nice option for taking notes : Take your notes on the go ( clients for most smartphones ) . Edit your notes and analyse them , on the web . You can tag and label your notes , so you have some non-linear flexibility as well .
Is there a reason not to show a student their letter of reference ? One important reason is if you make direct comparisons with other students , which is one of the most useful things you can do in a letter . If you say " this student is even more promising than X , and perhaps comparable with Y , but not quite as strong as Z " , then it does n't seem appropriate to tell the student . Even if your letter does n't name anyone specific , but instead says " this student was among the top two in a class of twenty-five " , it still leaks a little information about how other students performed in the class . Even aside from direct comparisons , you 'll be making implicit comparisons if several students compare the letters you wrote for them to see whose is more enthusiastic . That does n't raise the same ethical issues , but it 's still awkward . I have no interest in telling students my private opinion of how they compare with each other . The second question is , is it reasonable to refuse to write a reference for a student when the student does not waive their right to see the reference . Why not ? The fundamental question here is whether you ever have an obligation to write a letter . In general I 'd say no , although there are cases in which it would be offensive to refuse to write for anything less than very serious reasons . ( For example , Ph.D. advisors owe letters to graduating students . ) Under most circumstances , refusing to waive the right to see the letter sounds to me like a fine reason to decline to write one . There are also all sorts of intermediate options you could choose . For example , you could tell the student you would have to write something like " I warned this student that I could not write a compelling letter if he did not waive the right to see it , because I would be unable to compare him with other students . He insisted that he needed a letter from me but was unwilling to waive this right , so I will do the best I can . I can confirm that he received an A in my class and has sufficient preparation for further study in this field . "
If a paper is published in a very good journal ( one that is sufficiently good that it does n't need to accept boring papers to fill issues ) , that means somebody ( reviewer , editor ) thought its contributions would be interesting , novel , and/or useful to a nontrivial subset of the journal 's audience . But , this does n't mean that the paper is interesting to everyone . ( Very few papers are ! ) For example , I usually find papers that say " We applied a known technique to optimize problem X for some metric Y " very boring , but others in my field appreciate these contributions . In some cases , you may find the paper uninteresting because you either understood less than the reviewer or more than the reviewer . It often takes some knowledge of the field to really appreciate the contribution a paper is making . In most journals , the authors are allowed to assume that the reader already has some field-specific knowledge . If you read the paper without understanding this context , it will probably seem boring or not useful to you . It works the other way as well . Sometimes , a reviewer reads a paper and thinks , " This is an important contribution , " but those with more knowledge understand that it is n't . For really good journals , the editor can usually find a reviewer who understands the field well , so this ( ideally ) does n't happen as often . I am sure somebody can think of a paper that was accepted only for e.g. , political reasons , and is genuinely , objectively unimportant . These are rare enough that I do n't think these are the papers you are asking about .
Plagiarism is copying someone else 's result and presenting it as an own result . It does n't seem you 're planning to do that . In general , there should n't be a problem to use a jointly developed software core for research in your and your friend 's dissertation . Research is a lot about collaboration , so I 'd view that rather positively . But it will be important that you distinguish results that were obtained jointly from individual results , and that you agree on that beforehand to avoid potentially difficult discussions down the road . Things to clarify would include : In how much detail do your dissertations need to describe the jointly developed core , and how much overlap is acceptable there ? That is something you need to discuss with your advisor as well . It may be problematic to include a substantial amount of jointly written text in the individual dissertations . Is there potential for a joint paper that you publish independently of your theses to describe the core software ? In your dissertations , you can then simply refer to that paper and avoid overlapping text there . Can you agree on specific contributions that everybody made to the software , have each of you focus on that for his dissertation , and refer to the friend 's dissertation for the other part ?
Quick Answer : The downside might be his age , but the upside is plenty ! It is obvious that the age might be a factor , however you are not dealing with a dance instructor or a body builder here . Look at Prof. Stephen Hawking , beside his age , there are other limitations ; but everyone listens to him and want to learn from him . Put his name on a conference , and people will line up . The following points popped up in my head : Experience : Being dominant in a field for any amount of period , let alone 3 decades , is not easy . What you will get is a world of experience and vision ( my second point here ) . Vision : It is not all about hard work to be on the top , the individual needs to have a vision of the field as well . You will have the privilege to lean how he come up and deal with research issues . Believe me , I had supervisors that did not have the ' vision ' part , and working with them was not pleasant . Less Politics : He already ' done it all ' , and therefore not looking forward that much to the next promotion or something of that sort ; what you get is a person that everyone knows that he is the leader in a field ; so all the help you get you from him ; you get it through no or much less jealousy and/or office politics . Decision On Your Overall Career : If you get a position to work with a young supervisor , you ca n't truly answer the big question : What I will do after my PhD ? . However if you work with an experience academic , you can see yourself after 20/30/40 years . You can see how hard you need to work to get there and is it something you want to do or not . Conclusion : Take the position , there might be a little downside because of his age , but the positive points are plenty .
I agree that the boundaries are not quite clear in that it is impossible to analyse a set of data without giving some sort of interpretation to them at the same time . The requirement however does n't mean that you have to identify a single author for each contribution . For example , you can say that author A contributed to data acquisition , author B to both data analysis and interpretation . In an experiment , data acquisition can simply mean running the tests without processing the data into more meaningful plots or graphs . The latter falls into the category of data analysis . Discussing what the data mean comes into interpretation . While interpretation can not be absent in any analysis , and so I can not imagine an author contributing to analysis but not to interpretation , the reverse may be possible . An author can contribute to interpretation without contributing to analysis .
end question
start question
How to request transcript copies from universities in the Netherlands ?
The best thing to do is probably to contact the student administration of your university . They can make certified copies of your diploma ( and presumably also grade transcripts , etc. ) . You can also contact the Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs at <URL> , which are also authorised to make certified copies . However , it may be that " ordinary " photocopies suffice , if you tell them that you can show the originals later if necessary . You would have to check with the admissions office though , I do not know about the situation in the US .
From your link : Where a government-funded or affiliated entity such as a University attempts to limit the freedom of expression of its students it must carefully consider the students ' Charter right to freedom of expression , and ensure that any limitation is reasonable , justified and compliant with the Charter . It seems like the difference between punishing people for sharing test questions and punishing them for criticizing professors is that one of these is " reasonable and justified , " while the other is n't .
In addition to field making a difference , there are strong differences between countries . For instance , for my jobs in the US , I never needed to show any of my diplomas ; however , I had to supply my transcripts for undergraduate and graduate programs . By contrast , in Germany , job applicants are normally expected to show their entire pedigrees -- which means at a minimum the diploma certificates at both the university and high school levels ! ( I was also expected to produce the transcripts , of course . ) So , the best advice I can give is to follow the expectations of the industry in the region where you are applying . If you have any doubts about what is required , ask the contacts for the position or program .
The importance of any single metric is binary and its value ( important or not ) depends on the size of the department . If the department is big admissions committees use metrics to weed out candidates . Basically anyone with GPA/GRE below X is triaged ( does n't matter what school you went to , how good your references are , etc ) . Smaller departments generally look at all applications . Once your applications is looked at , it is considered as a whole . There is no formula by which good GRE scores can offset a bad GPA . Obviously a better GPA does n't hurt , but you really want to worry about the things you can control . For example , good research experience tends to trump everything else .
We have the same phenomenon in America , of course . All other things being equal , a 3.5 GPA from Princeton is much more impressive than a 4.0 from some random state university . The whole idea of GRE scores is to provide a metric that is n't confounded by the difficulty of different programs at different colleges in these ways . An additional difficulty you face is that your American evaluators wo n't know how good or bad your university is . This makes your GRE score doubly important .
Academics are n't upset about not getting paid for refereeing/reviewing - they 're upset because journals charge too much . There 's really four points in the statement " academics do pretty much all the work for free and publishers get the money " Academics do most of the work Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work Publishers get the money Academics do n't get any money Just because people might object to some of the four points , that does n't mean they object to all of them . Academics do most of the work - Most academics would n't object to this state of the affairs . Of course academics do most of the work in publishing ( especially reviewing ) - they 're the ones who are qualified to do it . You ca n't have some bureaucrat take care of reviewing the work , you need someone who knows the field . Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work - Academics might grumble at this , but there 's a comparatively little that the publishers are qualified to do . Typesetting , printing , maintaining the journal website , administration in the reviewing process ... and that 's about it . All the actual content decisions have to be done by knowledgeable people ( academics ) . There 's certainly some journals which try to offload things like typesetting onto the authors , but in part that 's financially driven ... Publishers get the money - This is the main point of upset . Publishers charge what is viewed as an excessive amount . ... but it 's not that they 're charging money per se , it 's more that academics lose access to the content due to expense . Most academics were completely satisfied when they had access through ( paid ) library subscriptions . It 's only when budget cuts ( and publisher price increases ) caused libraries to cut subscriptions that academics got upset . But again , it 's less having to pay for things and more not being able to access everything they need . Academics do n't get any money - This is the point you 're addressing . However , I 'd say most academics do n't have a problem with it . Refereeing for a journal is considered by most to be community service - it 's something that needs to happen , and they 're the only ones qualified to do it . It 's quid-pro-quo : others review your articles , and you review other people 's . Attempting to make it a paid-for enterprise makes the person asking for the money seem greedy . So where does that leave you ? Academics ( mostly ) do n't have a problem doing most of the work - and doing it for free . The complaints are on the publisher 's side : they 're charging too much for what little they do . Demanding that publishers pay academics for reviewing is n't going to change that . If anything , it will make journal access more expensive , as they now need to pay for reviewers . So charging a fee when reviewing is n't going to fix the problem , and as Mark Meckes mentions in his answer , asking for one is only going to make you look naive and greedy to the ( academic ) editor who you 're in contact with . Note that there 's a very big difference between " Decline to review based on principles " and " Decline to review ... unless you pay me " .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
Just send a polite email stating that you found another position or that you simply prefer to take a different direction . Be sure to thank the professor for the time he has put into you . The email does not have to be long , but it should give a reason . You do not need to be overly elaborate , though . And do n't forget to be polite . The thing you do not realise is that the professor wants to find a student who will be committed to his topic for several years to come . If you are not such a student , it is best for the professor to know that before taking you on as a student . In a sense , you are doing the professor a favour by withdrawing .
The tools you state are prototypes developed by the authors . They may not always have enough rank to be easily Googled , so the best place to search for them would be the respective institution sites and author sites . For instance , MAPO can be found in the corresponding author <URL> ( although you might need his consent to access it ) . MICA is available <URL> with copyright by Carnegie Mellon University . If that does n't work , the best thing to do would be to mail the corresponding author requesting the required access to the software .
If you write GPA : 3.5 in your CV , this implies that your official cumulative GPA as per university records is a 3.5 . So to write this is misleading , and unethical . If you want to list your GPA only for courses in your own department , you can write Major GPA : 3.5 or 3.5 GPA in physical science courses
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
As Dan <URL> , you have both an ethical , academic obligation to cite your source , and a legal duty to comply with whatever licence the image was made available under . However , in general , the possibilities of that licence are somewhat broader than the CC-BY licence explained in Dan 's answer . In general , a paper found on the arXiv can be licensed in five different ways , which are explained in the <URL> page . Authors can do the following : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . In addition to this is the question of whether the authors have retained copyright for the material after the arXiv posting . If the paper has since been published , chances are that they have ceded copyright to the publisher and you will need to go through the proper channels to get it . Since the question is specifically about the preprint , I will assume that the copyright of the material remains with the author . ( Nevertheless , you still need to check that this is the case . ) The easiest case is if the arXiv posting has been put in the public domain ( CC0 licence ) , in which case you do not need to acknowledge any copyright , much as if you were reproducing , say , a passage of Alice in Wonderland . ( You still need to attribute it , though , the same as if you were reproducing Alice in Wonderland . ) If the paper has been shared via any of the Creative Commons licences , then you can simply reproduce it , with the proper attribution and a link to the relevant licence . If the licence is CC BY-SA or CC BY-NC-SA , then you also need to make sure that you abide by the terms of the licence : that you 're publishing under a <URL> , in both cases , and that your use is non-commercial in the latter . The most common case , however , in many fields , is the first one : the authors granted arXiv.org ( not you ) a license to distribute the article , and that 's that . This means that , barring any fair-use arguments you wish to make , you do not have permission to redistribute the work either in part or in its entirety . In this case , what you need to do is contact the authors and ask for permission to republish the image . In your specific case , however , your group is itself the owner of the copyright , and you do not need to do anything . It is not even a question of you having the freedom of choosing how the initial work is licensed : you 're simply publishing the same material in different venues , which is perfectly fine . Of course , if you want to go further and license that material under a CC licence , then all the better ! ( Just be aware , of course , that doing so could impair your ability to publish it in some venues down the line . )
In my experience , the answer is usually no but occasionally yes . Note : This answer is specific to the United States . Most employers in the US are forbidden by law from discriminating on the basis of religion ; they have to give equal consideration to candidates of any religion or no religion , and generally they will avoid asking about religion at all . This includes non-denominational academic employers . However , religiously affiliated employers ( such as churches , religious charities etc ) , are exempt from this rule , and may use religion as a criterion for employment if they so choose . This includes religiously affiliated academic institutions . Each such institution will have its own policy on whether they consider religion and what the criteria are . These policies will usually be mentioned in job postings . In my experience , most intentionally choose to not consider religion as a factor , usually giving the justification of creating an inclusive community . These may be institutions that were founded by a church and may still receive funding from them , but operate mainly as a secular institution , accepting students and faculty without regard to religion . Job postings will often indicate this with phrases like " equal opportunity employer " . They may have a " mission statement " with religious wording , and a tradition of religious activities on campus ( such as regular church services ) , but nobody is obligated to participate . There are others which choose to be more overtly religious . They may accept students and faculty only if their religious beliefs align with those of the institution . These are more likely to have formal religious activities on campus , and sometimes strict moral conduct codes . Their job postings often ask explicitly about the applicant 's spiritual beliefs . The institution 's name is not always a good indicator of where they fall in this spectrum . As one example , <URL> describes itself as : an academic community dedicated to intellectual and personal growth within the context of a liberal arts education and in an environment of Christian concern . However , they also say : Nebraska Wesleyan University provides equal educational opportunities to all qualified persons in all areas of university operation , including education and decisions regarding faculty appointment , promotion or tenure , without regard to race , religion , age , sex , creed , color , disability , marital status , national or ethnic origin or sexual orientation . At the other extreme , <URL> included this wording in a recent <URL> : The Mathematics , Statistics and Computer Science department at Dordt College has a history of preparing students for graduate school , industry and K-12 education . This preparation is infused with an unashamedly Reformed Christian worldview , in order to prepare students to be global citizens in God 's service . [ ... ] We look forward to receiving applications from candidates who wish to join us in [ ... ] teaching mathematics from a Christian perspective in the context of educating the whole person . Qualified persons committed to a Reformed , Biblical perspective and educational philosophy are encouraged to send a letter of interest and curriculum vitae/resume [ ... ] Generally , institutions that will only consider applicants of a certain religion will make this clear at the outset . However , even if not , you will have to decide if the religious environment ( or lack thereof ) on a particular institution 's campus will be comfortable for you . This is an appropriate topic to ask about during an interview .
In Germany , access to universities is regulated by the Numerus Clausus system , which basically says that the number of students admitted to any given programme at a university can be either unrestricted or restricted to a fixed number of students . For an unrestricted programme , students just need to fulfill the basic formal criteria ( they need a german Abitur , or an equivalent ) . For most restricted programmes on bachelor level , prospective students need to apply and are then ranked based solely on their Abitur grades ( plus a few exceptions for corner cases , foreign students with no german Abitur , etc. ) . For restricted master level programmes , many universities ( including , apparently , TU Kaiserslautern , as linked by the original poster above ) have adopted a more US-style admission system , which is based not only on previous grades but also on letters of recommendation , statements of interest , interviews , etc. . TU Kaiserslautern also has its selection procedure <URL> . This will vary per university , though . Edit : to answer your subquestion ( which I happened to have missed the first time around ) : Do German universities discriminate students on the basis of their age ? No , not in general , and certainly not officially .
The fact that you have done your degree either part or full time will not change your degree 's value . I have never heard of part-time degrees being treated differently from full-time degrees . In fact , it would be unusual to list a part-time or full time status on your CV so it 's not clear how people would know . And I doubt many people would react differently . Your decision to do a degree part-time or full-time has other important implications on your long term goals but they are indirect . If you want to go into industry , choosing a part-time degree might mean you have more time to build up industry experience which might be nice . If you want to go into academia -- and you can afford to go to school full time -- do the full time degree because work in industry will only slow you down from the pursuit of your long term goal . Being a part-time student might also mean less attention from faculty who might think you are less serious about an academic track while you are doing the degree .
Well someone 's got to pay . If it 's the reader , then howls go up about Open Access . So that leaves the authors . The costs of publishing A high-quality journal needs high-quality editors . An awful lot of literature still gets printed and distributed around the world and that 's expensive . Remember , reading this , we are the ones who are most active online , and so our paper-reading habits are much more likely to be skewed towards predominantly ( or even exclusively ) online access , so are not fully representative . High-quality journals often also get involved in conference sponsorship , publicity , and so on . The peer-reviews get co-ordinated ; there is often some vetting of suitable reviewers ; their responses need to be interpreted correctly ; special issues get co-ordinated ; someone ensures a good balance of articles covering the journal 's remit . So , there 's a lot of costs , and someone 's got to cover them . If we want to publish at almost-zero overheads , we write a blog . A journal is much much more than a blog - and some of the things that make it much more than a blog , cost money . Not necessarily an efficient market That 's not to say that in certain sectors , there is n't a market failure : some sectors do have suspiciously high profit margins . And market regulators should be looking at removing barriers to entry . Those barriers certainly are n't insurmountable , as notable new scientific publishers have emerged recently , with new business models : <URL> being an obvious example , founded in 2000 to support Open Access , and <URL> ; and now a serious player , using the author-pays model . Author beware There are also plenty of scammers using the author-pays model . So be careful out there . Talk to colleagues about who 's reputable and who 's not . Read the journals . And there are lists online of the disreputable publishers . Read more about that on this site at <URL>
Legally speaking , any disclosure of an invention prevents it from being patented : it counts as <URL> . Disclosure includes not only publication but also public demonstrations , as well as sales ( except possibly when subject to a non-disclosure agreement ) . This is part of the <URL> requirement of patentability . There is an exception : in some countries , the inventor has a <URL> after disclosure during which they can still file a patent . This only applies to the inventor , a third party is n't allowed to file a patent for something they did n't invent , or for something that somebody else has already published . The longest grace period around the world is 1 year , in the US . Some jurisdictions such as the EU have no grace period . Thus if you publish your research , this protects from anyone subsequently filing a patent on it . Even if they had invented it previously , your publication would invalidate a future application . After publication , the only remaining risk is that you , or a fellow inventor who worked with you , take advantage of the grace period to file a patent in countries where this is possible . I do n't know of a way for you to legally guarantee to others that you wo n't file a patent . Note that you need to publish ( or at least publicize -- a private disclosure is sufficient to invalidate a patent unless it falls under the scope of a confidentiality agreement ) . If you invent something and do n't publicize it , that allows someone else ( presumably working independently , since you did n't tell them anything ) to file a patent on their own invention . Being the first to invent does n't bring you an advantage ( it used to in some countries , but since the US switched in 2013 , all countries have a <URL> system ) . Fortunately , publishing open research should n't be an onerous requirement . That 's the law . In practice , patent examiners do n't always find prior publications . The ubiquitous Internet has made it easier than it used to be , but conversely the increasing volume of available knowledge has made it more difficult to find the needle in the haystack . If a patent has been accepted by a patent office , it can still be contested due to the existence of prior art , but this requires a court decision , which can be costly . Some research institutions ( public or private ) have a formal practice of <URL> : publish potential inventions that they do n't intent to patent as soon as possible , in order to block anyone else from patenting them . Technically , any publication is a public disclosure , including an arXiv preprint , a blog post , or even a research seminar if it 's legally open to external visitors . However , since it 's easier to fight a patent before it 's granted , it is advantageous to make it easy for patent examiners to find the defensive publication . If you 're concerned about someone filing a patent on something you discovered , or for that matter anything that you know about , you can watch patent applications . Patent applications are published for a period of at least a few months , during which time anyone can point the patent examiner to something that they consider to be prior art . Stack Exchange participates in this process through their <URL> where people can coordinate prior art searches .
In most cases , there is no preference . The vast majority of graduate programs in the US accept both IELTS and TOEFL . A program that does have a preference will say so in its admission instructions . For example , <URL> : In addition to the required credentials for applications , international students must demonstrate an understanding of English , including the ability to read and write with ease . International students are required to submit scores from or the Test of English as a Foreign Language ( TOEFL ) that meet our minimum requirements . If the TOEFL is not available , we will accept scores from the International English Language Testing System ( IELTS ) . and <URL> : If your first language is not English , you will need to submit an IELTS test score . Please note : this department does not accept TOEFL scores under any circumstances . While <URL> : Stanford does not accept IELTS scores . ( While through <URL> NYU GSAS acccepted TOEFL only , as of Fall 2016 they appear to have <URL> . ) and <URL> : -- Do you accept the IELTS instead of the TOEFL ? No . So you can check if the specific programs you are interested in have a preference .
If research is a substantive part of the jobs you are applying for , then you should be wary of asking your Master 's supervisor for a letter . It could work out OK , but there 's a serious risk . The issue is that hiring committees want information about your current research , rather than what you did for your Master 's degree . If your Master 's supervisor has read some of your recent work and is capable of discussing and evaluating it in detail , then it will be a useful recommendation . However , you do n't want a letter that focuses on the past and just includes a brief paragraph saying " And the Ph.D. research seems to have gone well , but I do n't really know anything about it . " That could actually hurt your case by suggesting that you could n't find three people who understand and think highly of your more recent work . A strong letter that focuses on the past is certainly better than a weak letter , so it could be your best option . You might also talk about this issue with your Master 's supervisor , and see how compelling and up to date a letter she thinks she can provide . If she has read or wants to read your recent work , then that 's great ; if she is hesitant about the idea of writing a letter , then I would ask someone else .
I do . I have print subscriptions to three major journals in my field , all through optional add-ons to society memberships . I do so for three reasons : It forces me to read and interact with the literature . Online tables of contents , journal RSS feeds etc. can be ignored because another staff meeting is coming up , I really should submit an abstract , etc. . The arrival of a printed journal gives me an excuse once a month/quarter/every two weeks etc. to sit down and engage with my field . I read articles I would not otherwise read . General society journals have papers in areas that are not strictly my field . Sometimes , I read these , because I know the authors , liked a particular plot while I was flipping through , or because it pings my curiousity . I rarely read PDF papers outside my field . Journals are more durable than print-and-staple publications . They live in my bag . I read them at lunch . I read them in the bathroom . I read them at the gym . I do things to them that I would n't dare do to either an iPad or other electronic reader or a few flimsy pieces of copier paper .
end question
start question
Approaching researchers about collaboration ?
To show interest is never wrong so from that point , I think such an approach would be fair . What complicates the issue is the picture of prerequisites . When you approach someone , does not matter at what level , you need to show how you can be of interest . What that entails is showing you have the background ( courses and scientific literature ) that allows you to be efficient help . I think this is where the plan is most likely to fail because the recipient of the request will not likely be interested in taking on help that needs much coaching to function . If your request is within the department where you study , matters might be easier but if you contact someone in another university of perhaps even department the difficulties may arise . So , I can not see anyone being offended by a request such as this . The problem lies in seeing how you can fit in and be a contributor without to much costs ( in terms of e.g. time ) for the researcher or research group . However , a personal visit is far more likely to lead somewhere than a letter or E-mail . Requests such as these are not uncommon but in my experience have most often been very uninteresting . Again , some have visited which has provided a very good possibility to assess the common interests and in what way a possible " collaboration " would work . As for the last question , I can not see a problem except that a PhD student may not be in a position to bring in an external person into a project that in essence is run by their advisor . A PhD student , on the other hand , may be a good way into a research group since they may be open to a meeting more readily than a busy project leader . So , showing interest is good but you need to be able to show clearly what you bring to the table to wet the appetite of the person you target .
Better safe than sorry : check with the institution you 're applying to , they may have formal requirements about this . However , I do n't think it 's likely to be very narrow . The important points are that the recommendation letters come from people with a good track record , i.e. people who clearly perform high-quality research , and that they have worked closely with you in the past . Whether they 're affiliated with a university , a meteorological agency , the NASA , a museum , or even ( may God have mercy on your soul ) The Industry ... it does n't matter much .
If you are in mathematics , there is no notion of " first author " , so you can ignore alphabetization . You can put your own name on the first slide as you normally would , and then elsewhere on the slide add " Joint work with XXXX . " Here 's an example from a slide talk I gave : <URL>
You definitely submit a paper by yourself and if you write a high quality submission , it will be accepted . When I was early in my research career I found it very helpful to have a collaborator such as a teacher/professor or a postdoc student with publishing experience to collaborate on papers . This often helps catching points or issues that you may overlook within your research as well as providing advice and guidance .
I am a theoretical computer scientists in a top-10 US computer science department . To first order approximation , the only reason I apply for grants is to fund PhD students . My research does not require PhD students , but it 's part of my job as a university professor to advise them , I enjoy working with them , and I am considerably more productive when I work with them . Students in my department that are not funded by research grants or fellowships are funded instead by teaching assistantships . Being a TA requires a significant time investment , decreasing the time that these students can devote to research . Being a TA can be incredibly valuable experience , especially for prospective academics , but the first-order criterion for judging the success of PhDs in computer science is the quality of their research output . My department competes with peer departments -- and I compete with researchers in those departments -- to attract strong PhD students . If we/I want to attract strong students , we have to make credible promises of future funding to do research , because that 's what our peer departments do . Prospective PhD students understand the previous point . I work in a public university in a state with rather significant budget problems . TAs are paid from state money , which is limited . Thus , my department can only support a limited number of TAs . So if I want the department to admit more than a small number of students into my research area , I have to demonstrate that we can fund a majority of those students through grants . Students need funding to travel to conferences to present their research results , because they need to build a reputation in the research community . I could pay for my own travel out of pocket if I really had to , but most PhD students do n't have that luxury . There are a few second-order concerns as well . The day-to-day functioning of my department requires a steady stream of incoming research grants . Grant overhead pays for a lot of basic infrastructure in my department , including the salaries of all the staff our business office , half of the salaries of most other administrative staff , support for non-instructional non-research computing resources like our graduate admissions database . Grant overhead is also the source of startup packages for new faculty ( for which we are again competing with our peers ) . The only equipment I need is " pencil and paper " -- or more accurately , a laptop with a stable LaTeX distribution and a drawing program , and basic internet access . NSF no longer allows research funds to be used for general-purpose computing equipment , so I ca n't include that in my grant budgets anyway . But my university returns a small fraction of overhead directly to PIs , and I can use that to buy new laptops , to pay for additional travel ( by me , my students , or visitors ) , or even to help fund RAships . Tenure and promotion decisions , and to a smaller extent raises , do depend in part on professors ' proven ability to attract funding , especially in a department ( and college ) like mine where most faculty are extremely successful . Oh right , I almost forgot . I can pay myself an extra month or two of salary over the summer from my grants . The university pays me for only 9 months of each year ( although that pay is spread over 12 months ) , so each month of summer salary is actually more than 10 % of my annual pay .
About 80-90 % of 10 pages have been copied verbatim from my work . 80 TO 90 % ?! This is a significant amount of content . Even translated , I feel like it demonstrates purposeful intent to plagiarize ( akin to using Word 's auto-summarize feature to summarize an article ) , rather than paraphrasing an amount of text to show a point . Translating word for word , as per my APA link above , with proper citation , for a single point is one thing , but when the bulk of the introduction is someone else 's work , this seems to me as academic misconduct rather than poor use of citations . I mean ... EIGHT TO NINE PAGES . It is literally 8 pages worth of your work , translated , as his introduction . It might as well be YOUR introduction , given how much you 've put in , and someone else translated it . Translated books are still accredited to their original author , with a translator tagged . The way this sounds cited , he 's basically taking credit for what you 've written , citing you as the person who provided information for the idea , as opposed to the person who actually wrote it and facilitated by his translation . Unless he 's cited and mentioned that it 's a direct quote translated after every sentence , this seems like willful plagiarism . I would recommend you talk to the advisers about this issue now that you 've demonstrated the scope of the issue . While you may not have a significant vested interest in the outcome of the situation , the advisers definitely will , and they will likely know how to handle the situation . Also , confronting the student in question is not a good idea . The university awards the degree to the student ( and the degree 's worth is determined by the integrity of how it is awarded ) , so it is probably in the best interest of the university as well to determine the action resulting from something like this .
Yes , I would certainly mention it , especially when applying to schools where undergraduate research is a focus , or those that have a thesis-based masters program . The " teaching statement " does n't have to be limited to classroom teaching ; it is reasonable to mention any activities related to educating students .
There is a difficult tension to balance here : one the one hand , you do n't want to <URL> . On the other hand , the people reading the application will have seen a lot , and will probably be pretty good at detecting somebody puffing themselves up and will not be impressed . Two useful strategies for approaching this : Follow the writing strategy of " show , do n't tell " . If you 've done something awesome , do n't tell that you were awesome : " I made important contributions to the study of newts . " Instead , show the thing that you 've done : " I studied newts under Prof. Coolness as a junior , and our paper on how newts prefer turn clockwise under the full moon was recently accepted to the Journal of Arbitrary Herpetology . " Give the reader enough evidence that they can conclude awesomeness for themselves . Once you 've got a draft written , ask a trusted professor to look at it and check whether you 've left anything important out or are overinflating yourself .
Academics are n't upset about not getting paid for refereeing/reviewing - they 're upset because journals charge too much . There 's really four points in the statement " academics do pretty much all the work for free and publishers get the money " Academics do most of the work Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work Publishers get the money Academics do n't get any money Just because people might object to some of the four points , that does n't mean they object to all of them . Academics do most of the work - Most academics would n't object to this state of the affairs . Of course academics do most of the work in publishing ( especially reviewing ) - they 're the ones who are qualified to do it . You ca n't have some bureaucrat take care of reviewing the work , you need someone who knows the field . Publishers do a comparatively small amount of work - Academics might grumble at this , but there 's a comparatively little that the publishers are qualified to do . Typesetting , printing , maintaining the journal website , administration in the reviewing process ... and that 's about it . All the actual content decisions have to be done by knowledgeable people ( academics ) . There 's certainly some journals which try to offload things like typesetting onto the authors , but in part that 's financially driven ... Publishers get the money - This is the main point of upset . Publishers charge what is viewed as an excessive amount . ... but it 's not that they 're charging money per se , it 's more that academics lose access to the content due to expense . Most academics were completely satisfied when they had access through ( paid ) library subscriptions . It 's only when budget cuts ( and publisher price increases ) caused libraries to cut subscriptions that academics got upset . But again , it 's less having to pay for things and more not being able to access everything they need . Academics do n't get any money - This is the point you 're addressing . However , I 'd say most academics do n't have a problem with it . Refereeing for a journal is considered by most to be community service - it 's something that needs to happen , and they 're the only ones qualified to do it . It 's quid-pro-quo : others review your articles , and you review other people 's . Attempting to make it a paid-for enterprise makes the person asking for the money seem greedy . So where does that leave you ? Academics ( mostly ) do n't have a problem doing most of the work - and doing it for free . The complaints are on the publisher 's side : they 're charging too much for what little they do . Demanding that publishers pay academics for reviewing is n't going to change that . If anything , it will make journal access more expensive , as they now need to pay for reviewers . So charging a fee when reviewing is n't going to fix the problem , and as Mark Meckes mentions in his answer , asking for one is only going to make you look naive and greedy to the ( academic ) editor who you 're in contact with . Note that there 's a very big difference between " Decline to review based on principles " and " Decline to review ... unless you pay me " .
In theoretical computer science conferences ( which often use EasyChair ) , I have seen the following practices : Once all reviews are in , PC chairs often encourage all PC members to comment on all papers on which they have something useful to say . Sometimes the comments are just discussion that may influence the final decision in borderline cases . Sometimes the assigned reviewers modify their reviews based on the comments ( e.g. , they realised that they overlooked some important point ) . Sometimes the PC chairs ask some of the assigned reviewers to incorporate the comments in their reviews . Sometimes the PC chairs ask non-reviewers to convert their comments to ( short ) reviews .
As some comments note , answers will vary dramatically by field , but it seems better to have a bunch of answers for different fields to one question , instead of having people ask the same question a dozen times for different fields . For math , if you 're talking about a completed , submitted paper that has n't been published yet ( say , because it 's still being refereed ) , you should feel free to talk about it ; the submission date proves your claim on the result , so it ca n't really be stolen at this stage . ( Also , you already put it on the arXiv , so it 's already public , right ? ) Suppose you 're still writing the paper , but the results are completely solid . There are good reasons to tell people about the result : you may be want to discuss ideas for how to build on your paper , you may want to give people a head 's up that the theorem is coming -- say , so they can use it to prove things themselves , and you may want to establish a partial claim on the result in case someone else is doing the same thing . There are also good reasons not to tell people : even though you 're really awfully sure the result is solid , there might still be mistakes ; routinely announcing results well in advance of the paper can negatively affect your reputation ; someone could use your ideas to write their own paper faster . ( There 's an interesting phenomenon where once people know a theorem is true , it becomes easier to solve ; sometimes a problem is open for a long time , and then abruptly solved multiple times in a short period . ) Taking these together , I 'd advise not to announce a result until the paper 's finished unless there 's a strong reason to do so . This is particularly true early in your career , when it 's more likely that you 'll mistakenly believe a proof was really-definitely-totally finished . ( I was given this advice when I was in grad school , and while I have n't followed it 100 % of the time , I 've never regretted following it . )
In my case ( pure mathematics ) it is about two or three weeks of hectic activity before the October 1 NSF deadline once every 2-3 years . I can not say that I do nothing else during that time but it definitely distracts me quite a bit . What helps is that we ( I and a few my colleagues and friends ) often apply for collaborative research grants ( so we have well-established separation of labor when writing , which increases the speed noticeably ) . The reports are easy if you have something real to show . I would say it takes me at most a couple of hours to write mine . Recommendation letters and reviews usually take much more time .
If your work should be compared to a software tool , then you should compare it to that software tool . Actually comparing , however , can be tricky for a couple of reasons : Closed commercial software often hides its workings , such that it is difficult to tell how it actually operates . Live software projects are a moving target , and features today may be gone tomorrow . Thus , for example , if you were comparing a contextual text search to the methods used by Google , it would be very difficult to do that just in a " related works " section because their methods are hidden and constantly changing . Instead , you 'd need to take experimental data on its behavior in some period ( or cite somebody else who had ) . For this reason , whenever possible it is generally preferable to reference a paper about the software rather than the software per se . Most significant academic software will have an associated website with a section on " how to cite this " or a list of associated papers ( e.g. , <URL> ) , which will give you appropriate sources to cite in your discussion . If there is no such citation available , however , or if the existing citations are not appropriate , then you can cite the tool directly : there are established conventions for citing software tools . I also sometimes cite both a key paper and the live tool , when the tool has expanded well beyond the associated literature .
First of all , check their personal website and any other content they have published which you have access to which may already offer the input you require . It would certainly be in order to personally e-mail the researcher , but be specific as to the type of input or information you require . The scientist is probably very busy , and a broad question is more likely to go unanswered in that case . If you intend to refer to certain findings from a related field , ensure you provide all the necessary information to answer your question , or at the very least provide links to the related papers or websites for the convenience of the researcher .
The job talks I 'm familiar with do n't generally have an " about me " section , so you may be thinking of a different sort of talk from what I have in mind . ( I 'm envisioning a research talk at a U.S. university . ) But in my experience , you should n't include anything in a job talk unless it illuminates your work in some way . Hobbies are completely out , except in rare cases when they seriously influence your research . Your career path could be relevant for conveying your background and interests . For example , if you worked in an industrial research lab or have substantial background in another field , that could be worth highlighting . However , there 's no point in giving an oral recital of your CV . Same thing with how you got into your field : you should mention this only if it somehow shapes how people should think about your expertise ( and this will rarely be the case ) . On the other hand , pointing out that your work is half collaborative and half independent sounds reasonable to me . More generally , you want to put the specific topic you 'll be discussing in the context of your broader research program . How does it relate to other work you have done or to ongoing interests ? What 's noteworthy about your overall activities ? How much is about me as myself versus about me the professional ? It should all be about you as a professional . You do n't want to give the impression that the best argument you can make for hiring you involves your hobbies .
I describe the problem in almost exactly the same way as some earlier papers . If your description of the problem is based on the description in another paper , then you have to cite that paper . If your description is not based on another paper , but is such a standard thing , obvious to any expert in the field , that you have naturally written it in a similar way to other papers , then the following applies : Statements like this is a problem that has challenged mathematicians for over half a century or the computability of the matrix , given only partial spectral data quickly becomes intractable in higher dimensions can benefit from citation ( s ) . Not necessarily to avoid plagiarism - if you do n't include citations , you 're probably not misleading anyone into thinking it 's an original contribution - but to support the statements with evidence . Statements giving background about a problem often benefit from citations because without evidence , the reader might not be convinced of the truth of the statement . ( Or , even if we know our audience will agree with the statement , we sometimes cite evidence to show that we know the evidence . ) To some degree , this depends on conventions in your field , though . In some fields , statements like the ones above would typically be supported by citations to a handful of papers that either directly support the statement with evidence , or show that other experts in the field agree with this statement and have made similar statements themselves . In other fields , the standard is to only cite things you really use , and in that case you probably would n't cite anything in this situation . You can look for some high-quality published papers on topics similar to yours to get a sense of what the convention is in your field . If in doubt : cite .
There are interesting aspects raised by this question , not the least at which end of a distant interaction does the adjustment take place . Should the dyslexic collaborator make adjustments or should the other party make accommodations ? The issue of the influence any legislation is also interesting . If the collaboration arrangement is a formalised one , does any anti-discrimination laws apply at the US end which would require the US party to make adjustments ? Not knowing details of local laws I can not say , but local advice might need to be obtained . Even if it is not a requirement to do anything there may be other imperatives such as the protection of university reputation that could be affected by not being able to enable effective collaborations with disabled students . At the <URL> the location would indicate if their university should be providing resources to enable adjustments . If it was the <URL> ( I know it is not ) the the student 's university would already have an obligation to support adjustments to enable the participation in the collaboration on equal terms . Having discussed who might have to make adjustments , lets looks at possible means of adjustment . The most obvious mechanism is speech to text software , but even the best software has trouble with non-native ( and some native ) accents as well as the technical material often contained in Phd research discussions . Many regular uses of text-to-speech use a special " talking-to-the robot " form of speech to ensure accurate transcription . This leaves two other approaches . The move to a reduced text content or human transcription . Many dyslexic people find lengthy textual prose difficult . Often diagrams or speech are better . A tools that is often recommended are idea capture using brain-ware mapping . An example of such a Tool is <URL> . The research ideas can be captured in diagram form and pasted into a discussion wiki . Using a diagram the dyslexic and non-dyslexic collaborators can communicate on equal terms . If speech transcription seems to have a rle then , perhaps , junior researchers , such as undergraduate volunteers could be used to transcribe . This could happen at either end depending on availability of labour or funding . For a dyslexic student where funding is available there are software solutions that are very helpful in preparing text . Some tools assist in the conversion of non-linear expression into structured text ( such as Inspiration as already mentioned ) , but there are also writing tools . I find <URL> can be very useful , but others are available . I final thought ; It is often said <URL> and as such there can be linguistic difficulties between the most erudite writers on different continents . Just think how much harder it can be when dyslexia is introduced into the mix . As with both issues dialect or dyslexia , a little tolerance goes a long way .
( disclaimer - I come from computer science , and the little I know about conventions in philosophy is from hearsay ) I 'd like to be able to say " I looked around on Google scholar , etc , and I could n't find anything about this topic " The usual expression for this kind of thing in my field is " to the best of our knowledge , this topic/idea has so far not been considered in literature " . It tells the reader that you think that nobody has published this idea yet , but clearly the absence of existing literature is something very difficult to be sure about . Hence the rather defensive formulation . In general , is there a technique to demonstrate the absence of literature about a certain topic ? Nope . How would you do that ? It 's a bit like proving a hypothesis - you can only find counterexamples ( papers that do cover the topic ) , but you can not prove that in some weird journal nobody reads somebody has expressed your thoughts already . What kind of evidence is appropriate in this situation ? Would providing something like the number of results of a search on Google scholar be worthwhile ? The accepted convention in my field is to explain the methodology of how you searched for literature ( you had a defined methodology , right ? ) , and then explain / list / discuss what you found . Be specific - which keywords did you use and why ? Why Google Scholar and not something else ? Can you be sure that all papers that you would expect to be relevant are indexed by Scholar ( some of those should be pretty old , long before the Internet was a thing ) ? Did you also check your library for dead-tree literature ? Number of results and or similar metrics seem pretty much useless to me and would likely not improve your paper in any way .
One theory is that it serves as additional motivation for students to attend class , which in turn helps increase their success in the course . It gives them a short-term incentive to do something which is hopefully also in their long-term best interest . If attendance is so crucial to doing well in the class , would n't the students who do n't attend do poorly in the exams anyway ? In many cases the instructor has found from experience that this is true . But the student ( who has less experience ) may not be as convinced . Consider a student who wakes up in the morning and does n't feel like going to class . In a class with no explicit attendance requirement , the student may rationalize : " I will just study harder tomorrow to learn the material that I missed , and I 'll still be able to do well on the exam , so skipping class will have no consequences . " But they overestimate their ability to do that , and end up not learning it as well . Or tomorrow they put off the studying until the next day , and so on , and fall behind . As an eventual result , they do not do well on the exam . In a class with an attendance requirement , the student knows for sure that not attending class will have negative consequences . The biggest consequence ( failing the exam ) is very likely but not guaranteed , and the student may not be able to impartially evaluate just how likely it is . But loss of attendance points is guaranteed . So the student can not pretend that skipping class is harmless . Thus the student is more likely to actually attend , which is in their long-term best interest anyway . Hopefully , the ultimate result is that a higher percentage of students are able to meet the standards of the class . The flip side is that some students who have good attendance but poor performance otherwise may get better grades than they " deserve " , but the instructor may feel that this tradeoff is justified .
There are at least four worries , in my experience : The students may be trying not to study any more than they absolutely have to study . So if the professor says something is n't on the exam , they wo n't study it . If the professor says what is on the exam , but does n't explicitly mention something , and then that thing comes up ( even as a minor part of another problem ) , the students may complain that " you said that was n't on the test ! " . This can happen even if the professor really made a good faith effort to say what was on the test , and the students simply misunderstood . The professor may not have written the exam yet , and so she does n't know the exact topics that will be included . Someone else may write the exam , if there are many sections of the course taking the same exam . In that case , the professor may not be permitted to say what is on the exam . When I was a postdoc , they did n't even show us the common calculus exam until just before it was administered . There are various strategies to cope with these worries . A common one , as described in the question , is to just say that the exam can include everything from the class , which is not very informative but is otherwise harmless . There are other strategies , as well , such as making an exam review packet that includes more than the exam possibly could , and then selecting exam problems based on the review packet . But these do n't help with the issue of common exams written by someone else . By the way , if turnaround is fair play : we professors often ask the dual question : why do students so often ask what will be on the exam , when they have just had a class on the same material that will be on the exam ? As you can imagine , we may feel that we have already told the students what we want them to know , by designing the course to include it !
end question
start question
What is the role of a PhD advisor after a student has graduated ?
Once a person have graduated , there is not generally any remaining formal role for the Ph.D. advisor . In theory , a Ph.D. qualifies them as generally capable of independent scientific research , and they have no requirement to depend on their academic " parent " any more . In practice , however , no person is an island . Most researchers do much better as part of a network of like-minded colleagues who can serve as friends and allies . The Ph.D. advisor is a natural starting point for building such a network , both as someone likely to be a like-minded ally and also by helping build connections based on their own existing network . As the more junior colleague in the relationship , the benefits of interaction are likely to flow more more from the advisor to the former student , but the relationship is likely to grow more peer-like over time . Just as with a biological parent , even after formal independence , this connection is likely to last a lifetime ( but may not if the relationship is not good ) . Also like biological parents , however , Ph.D. advisors ( and others ) often have a hard time adjusting their perspective and seeing their former students as fully " grown up . " This is part of why it 's important not only to maintain a connection with one 's advisor , but also to clearly establish a separate research identity .
We can distinguish two different kinds of doctoral graduate studies in Europe : Programs through " graduate colleges " and " graduate schools " with centralized admissions policies Individual PhD positions in the research group ( or institute , chair , etc. ) of an individual professor In the first case , everything is essentially along the lines of an application to a US-based graduate program , and letters of recommendation still carry the same weight . For an individual position , letters of reference may be important , but as you suggested , it depends on the individual professor doing the hiring . For some research groups , the posting of an application is a formality , as they 're only interested in hiring " internal " candidates ( that is , people who have already worked in the group as bachelor 's or master 's students , and who thus can be " directly " evaluated ) . For people doing real searches , however , letters of recommendation are also important , because they can provide information about a candidate 's research abilities in a way that is not possible just looking at a transcript or set of certificates .
Yes and no . Student status does not lead to reduced taxation in Germany ( that should hold for non-locals , too ) . Instead , low incomes and scholarships are not subject to tax , which is probably what you are referring to . The maximum amount for scholarships before they are subject to taxation is said to be higher for non-Germans , though . As a student , health insurance is also cheaper . You are unlikely to get the cheaper health insurance as a PhD student as well . Depending on the state in which you do your PhD , you may or may not be allowed to enroll as a PhD student , so you may lose benefits such as cheaper food in the student canteen . Other than that , see the links provided in the comments to your question by Wolfgang Kuehne , as the taxation situation is very much dependent on how your PhD studies are funded . However , being subject to taxation and full-fee health insurance is not necessarily bad , as if you manage to find a 100 % paid scientific employee position ( which is not uncommon for CS ) , you will see that the net income is actually quite ok - even if you take the higher accommodation cost in Munich into account .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
Extrapolating from the very few cases that I 've seen , I think you 'll need an official adviser at the school where you 're actually enrolled . If it 's OK with that adviser , then you could also have a " real " adviser elsewhere , on an unofficial basis . Your school may have some paperwork to be completed if your real adviser is to serve as a member of your official thesis committee .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
Never use the solution manual before trying everything else ; talk to friends , visit the professor , go to class and listen ( ! ) , check the internet . Once you use the solution manual for a problem , the potential gain from that problem is significantly and irrecoverably reduced . Use the solution manual to check your work . ( Duh . ) For problems you are n't planning on solving , you can use the solutions manual to create flashcards and other learning aides ( if the course material is anemable to such a construct ) . If you have a friend/roommate/spouse / trained monkey who can compare your answers to the manual for you , such that you do n't actually read through the manual , that may be useful for certain topics . You can make some good money selling it when the semester is over :)
Value in an academic environment : zero . Everything you learn at Coursera you 'd simply learn from a textbook in a few days if you needed it for your academic research or teaching . Value to a non-academic employer : marginal , mainly as a signaling device ( this person will sacrifice his spare time over a non-trivial amount of time to improve himself ) , but certainly lower than a certification in a field or skill directly related to your job . Value to a prospective spouse ( as suggested by @earthling ) : depends . I 'd certainly look favorably on someone who took a Coursera course instead of watching TV . Value to yourself : again depends , but could be highest of all . I certainly know that those courses I took were mainly for my own pleasure and benefit .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
I do n't recall ever having received such an e-mail as an editor , so it 's not standard ( let alone mandatory ) , but I would n't be unhappy to receive one . I doubt anyone would care enough to make it worth the effort , but it could be a nice gesture if you feel inclined .
Mathematical sophistication and mathematical density are often confused for one another , and this confusion often extends to reviewers and the " customs " of scientific communities . To my mind , the best mathematical presentation is the most lucid and simple , and it is certainly the case that important consequences often come from rather simple equations . The simpler your equations , however , the more that the contribution of the paper will depend on your exploration of those consequences ( theoretically or empirically ) , rather than the mathematics per se . It can be very tempting to " puff up " the perceived complexity of your mathematics by adding notational complexity or other baroquery . It may even work well when dealing with some communities ( I know of some rather cynical and unfortunately successful experiments performed by certain colleagues of mine ) . I would strongly advise , however , against doing so . Write the paper as clearly and simply as possible , given the true nature of the mathematics within . Doing so may incur negative judgement from those who confuse " simple " and " trivial , " but to do otherwise is scientifically dishonest . Moreover , if your work has value , it will show in the consequences of the mathematics rather than its nature , and writing it more accessibly is likely , in the long run , to increase its impact . Finally , note that this dictum goes the other way as well : when you are presenting a complex mathematical result to an audience that does not appreciate mathematical complexity , do not attempt to pretend the mathematics is not complex . In this case , however , appendices and supplementary information is the way to go : keep only as much of key elements in the main text as is appropriate for the audience , and put the rest where those who are interested can readily find it without interrupting the flow of the main text .
Is it hard to resume education after working in industry ( assuming ' ideal ' conditions such as work related to chosen field , good master project from good university etc. ) ? In short : NO . I did exactly that and I think that was a great thing . Being in computer science , this gave me solid experience in software engineering and pragmatics of " real-world " solutions . The benefits I feel till now ( after completing my doctoral studies and working as a relatively senior post-doc ( 3 + years after thesis defence ) are these : 1 ) good feeling for what " societal " problems are and how does my research translate to practice ( at least hypothetically , but in a plausible way ) and 2 ) allows me to be involved in applied projects in any role from low-level programmer , through technical lead to project manager . All this is vital in writing project proposals and project execution . In a nutshell : experience in industry , when used wisely , can give you an " entrepreneurial " attitude , which definitely is an advantage over students who plunge to doctoral studies right after completing their master 's degree . The only slight downside is that you might end up as one of the oldest PhD students in the group . But I never perceived it as a problem . Finally , all the above applies to experience in European context ( in particular : DE , NL , BE ) . I have no clue about the cultural issues regarding your question in other parts of the world . Later edit : When it comes to the emotional and lifestyle part of the decision , of course there are issues to consider . Going from an industrial position to doctoral studies is almost always a financial downgrade . Perhaps more in countries where a PhD student has a student status ( US , UK ) , than in places which treat PhD students as university ( public ) employees ( DE , NL ) , salaries tend to be higher in the latter . My own attitude , however , was this : since at that point I did not have kids yet , I always thought that should the life demand more money , or when I wo n't like the academic life , with the sound experience from industry I should n't have a problem going back any time . This definitely took a huge amount of pressure from my shoulders while pursuing my PhD , since I did not worry about my future ( in career , or financial terms ) - unlike my " purely academic " peers . Even till now , I feel confident ( perhaps I fool myself ) that should the academic path not work out in the next few years , it 's not going to be the end of the world for me ( again unlike for some of my peers ) . To sum up : with the confidence that I am fit for industrial career , I can pursue my passion in academia , rather being under pressure to produce . So I would add this as yet another benefit . P.S. To a more extreme note : I can point fingers to at least two people who after a long career in industry embarked on doctoral studies in their 50s and became successful researchers in their fields afterwards . Similarly , there are many people who after completing their PhD went to industry for awhile ( 5-10 years ) and later came back to academia - though that feat seems to be harder to manage than the previous one . So everything is possible ...
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
What is the likelihood of a PhD-holder remaining unemployed ? ... I learnt that even a PhD from a US university is not enough to secure a job . The US National Science Foundation ( NSF ) <URL> on where doctoral graduates in STEM areas ( Science/Technology/Engineering / Mathematics ) end up working . <URL> , wherein the NSF provide statistics on the employment status of all PhD graduates from STEM areas trained in the U.S. Across all of their fields , they count 752,000 relevant graduates , of which they estimate that 651,200 were employed at that time ( 578,700 full-time , 72,400 part-time ) , 11,400 were unemployed and seeking work , 75,900 were retired , and 13,500 were not seeking work . An <URL> is calculated as : = / ( is Unemployment Rate , is number of people UnEmployed , is the number of people in the Labour Force [ working or seeking work ] . ) So for the 752,000 U.S. trained PhD graduates considered , the NSF estimated an unemployment rate of 1.7205 % in 2008 . This is compared with a U.S. unemployment rate of ~ 6 % in mid-2008 . So to return to your question ... What is the likelihood of a PhD-holder remaining unemployed ? More than three times lower than the general population ( for US-trained STEM PhD holders ) . Furthermore , a small percentage of unemployment is inevitable as some percentage of people will always be between jobs for a short time . ( Someone more in tune with economics may be able to comment on whether or not 1.72 % is close to " <URL> " , but being unemployed for > 1.72 % of your career while taking a break between jobs does n't seem unreasonable . ) A more detailed break-down of the total size of the labour force and the unemployment rate per field follows , so if you 're in a STEM area , you can pick whichever field is closest to yours . Caveats : The context is 2008 , US-trained STEM PhDs . Unemployment started increasing in 2008 with the onset of the <URL> . A PhD is just paperwork . What you do for your PhD is far more important than the degree itself . Of course simply being employed is not necessarily the same as having the great job that you always wanted , and certainly we can not infer from these data that doing a PhD is always the best path for everyone to follow their dreams .
I feel this is a difficult situation , with a number of variables that should influence your decision : Is your advisor completely gone ( e.g. , in complete retirement , gone to industry , or even dead ) , or has he just left for a different academic post ? If he is completely gone , you may need to find somebody to supervise you in your day-to-day research . If he has just moved on to a different university , it is possible that you want somebody to " formally " be your PhD advisor , but practically keep on working remotely with your old advisor . Whether you even want to keep on working remotely with your old advisor depends on how advanced you are and how well you worked with her/him beforehand . Are you advanced enough that you can finish your thesis more or less on your own ? That is , do you need an advisor or an examiner for your thesis ? If it is the latter , then pretty much anybody who is sufficiently well-versed in your area could act as your advisor for the finishing sprint . If you actually feel like you still need a lot of input to get your thesis ready , it will be harder to find somebody who can and is willing to take you on midway . If you are advanced and your advisor is only moving to a different university , it should be reasonably easy for you to find a " local proxy " without having to adapt your research plan too much . How set-in-stone is your research plan ? Or , in other words , how ready are you to adapt to the research agenda of another advisor ? Generally , if you really do n't want to change your research , but you also feel like you still need a lot of input , it is likely that you will have problems finding a suitable new advisor . If you are happy to change research topics , finding an advisor should not be more difficult than the first time . How does your funding work ? That is , do you " only " need a new advisor , or do you need a new advisor and a new funding source ( e.g. , project , grant ) ? Clearly , the former case will make it much easier to find a new advisor . In the second case , you will need to be willing to change your research plan somewhat , as few professors will be ready to dish out grant money if the student is not actually working on their projects . Are you a good student ? Ok , this may be somewhat controversial , but clearly if you have been an overperformer so far , it will be substantially easier to convince another professor to take you on . Similarly , if you already have great publications in your research , it will be much easier to convince a professor that you want to continue working on this concrete research idea and not change to whatever other project your new advisor has in mind . Are you willing to change universities ? If so , maybe coming along with your old advisor is an option ? So how does this help you ? In a first step , you need to reflect on all of these points to figure out what kind of advisor you actually want/need . Then go over the list of potential faculty that formally could serve as advisor . Think about how your collaboration with each of those potential advisors could work , and what you would need from them . Get in touch with the ones that seem most suitable ( as you already study there I am assuming you can just send them a mail , or have your current advisor put you in contact ) , and discuss the issue with them . Select the one that ( a ) is willing to take you on , and ( b ) you feel is most consistent with your answers to the questions above .
The professor encouraged you to apply -- so that 's what he expects you to do next . It is nothing wrong in your attempt to establish a more substantial connection with him and to promote yourself in his eyes , it increases your chances to get selected . However , imagine that at the same time there are probably 100 + other candidates , trying to do exactly the same -- sending him several smart research questions , involving him in some discussion , and expecting to chat over Skype with him in a few days . How would you feel in his shoes ? Of course , professors want to be available for their potential PhD students , TAs and colleagues , and of course , they want to participate in the selection process . But many of them do not want to carry out all the communication themselves -- that 's what secretariat , admissions , and HRs are for ! I assume there is a formal route to submit your application , and I suggest exactly what your professor suggested -- prepare your application and submit as instructed . If in a meantime you receive a message from him -- go forth and suggest a Skype meeting . If not -- assume that the professor is busy , and submit your application before the deadline anyway .
I do n't think there 's anything " special " that 's unique to applying to academia that a graduate student can do to increase the odds of becoming a professor in the long run , particularly if one is going to do a postdoc later on . The two areas that might help are : Gain teaching experience that goes beyond the standard " recitation section " leader -- that is , into actual lecturing and other forms of direct interaction with students , as well as formulation of assignments and examinations . This might make a difference at schools which are more teaching-oriented rather than research-oriented . Formulate a well-defined scope for your future research activities , and also develop the tentative outlines for the first few projects that you 'd start in that field . This is an essential part of any professorial application , and the sooner you start working on it , the more polished it will be when you 're ready to apply for positions when the time comes . Beyond that , what makes someone a good candidate for a postdoc are essentially the same qualities that will help in being a good candidate for a professorship later on .
If your department/school wo n't give you support ... The domain should cost you between $ 0.50 to $ 0.99 USD for the first year . Hosting costs range a lot , but many offer deals for the first year that cost about $ 12 USD . After you have your own server and domain , it is trivial to setup WordPress on your own server . Thus you get the best of both worlds , extremely affordable and easy ! Besides , I recommend most people have their own personal website for their portfolio and such anyway .
( I will quote a <URL> by <URL> and a <URL> by <URL> . ) You have got three qualities of the thesis production : good , cheap , fast . You can choose two . Hiring a LaTeX specialist is good ( if you find a good one ) , fast ( if you find a good one ) but expensive -- typesetting a 100-page thesis can take around 20 -- 30 hours of work , easily more depending on the text , on the person you work with , on the amount of discussion about the appearance , proofreading etc. . Making it yourself is cheap . However , unless you are Jarod from the Pretender series or you know LaTeX already , it can not be both good and fast . Of course , making it yourself is better in moving your LaTeX skills forward , but I do not think this is crucial for an academic career , surely it is not more crucial than submitting a quality thesis in time . People hire services of all kinds , you get grant-writing , typesetting , conference organization , IT , etc. -- very various kind of out-sourced services for which someone can say : " A good researcher has to be able to do this . " To answer your question about LaTeX services : I doubt universities have , in general , such services themselves . Some have a LaTeX theses class ( of varying quality ) , some even do not have this . However , there are independent LaTeX consults and consulting companies . I ca n't list any since ( 1 ) I do n't know them and ( 2 ) this is not an advertising site . However , remember that these people are highly specialized , and the prices of their services reflect this .
end question
start question
In a class with both graduate and undergraduate students , is it normal for a single grading curve to be applied for both groups ?
In the past , I 've graded the pool together , and have also graded grads and undergrads separately . Ultimately this is a decision made by the instructor , who probably spelt this out in their syllabus before the class started .
Simple ideas : Seminar where a professor gives a talk on his/her current research . Provide beer . Invite an alum from one of the companies you 're talking about to give a talk on something new from the company . Provide beer . Simple cook-out , which includes beer ( even better if this is a recurring event , monthly , once a semester , etc. ) . More involved ideas : Mini-poster conference , where a quorum of students have posters about their current research . Alum can act as judges , if you want to award prizes . Provide beer . Invite a famous alumus to give a talk . This always involves more work than you 're expecting , but can have big pay-offs . Might necessitate actual cocktails ( and possibly pay for the speaker , but if you play it right you should find an alumnus willing to do it for free ) . Field-trip to a local engineering firm that may have something interesting to look at ( or a tour ) . Drinks at a local bar afterward .
First , let 's acknowledge that this was a horrible test . You have almost no power to discriminate between the different abilities of the students with a mean of 23 % and a standard deviation of 5 % . Then you have to decide what to do . Personally , I 'd decrease the weight of this test in acknowledgement that it was a poor test ( or allow students the option of letting something else count for more ) . But if you just want to solve it numerically , there are the following constraints : You ca n't have a top score of more than 100 % The mean is required to be 72 % You want all differences to still mean something If you add 49 % to the grades , you get a mean of 72 % but your top score is now 117 % . You could cap it at 90-95 % or so , but the top students would be indistinguishable . So you 'd have to scale back by squashing the grades also , e.g. by multiplying the difference from 23 % by ( 28/45 ) to get it back in range . This will make the students distinguishable but not meaningfully so . Really the best option is to change the grading scheme so that you have a higher mean and more distinction between different scores ( to the extent that this is possible ) . For example , you can give a number of points for attempting a problem at all , a number of points for writing down anything which has a bearing on the right answer , etc. . You can just directly transform your old scores into new scores with the mean and deviation you like , however . Let be the value at which the probability of getting a lower percentile score from a Normal distribution with mean 0 and standard deviation is 1 . Then you can just calculate percentiles and map or something to get a mean of 72 and a standard deviation of 10 . ( Your top student in a class of 84 would have a percentile of 83.5 / 84 if you did it this way . ) Your top student would have a score of 97 under this scheme ( and the second to top a score of 93 ) Otherwise , you 're probably best off using a nonlinear transform ; is a nice function for that since it will squash down the tails ; and you probably want a SD of at least 10 not 5 , so you could do something like which would give a max score if 93.5 , a min score of 54.7 , and one standard deviation up and down would give 79.4 and 64.6 respectively . But again , the better options are to devalue the test as a bad test , and to change the grading scheme ( an awful lot of work , but it will give fairer results ) .
Edited heavily based on further information provided by OP If you are going into industry , or pursuing a Master 's , it may hurt you in the short term A Master 's degree is mostly course work . It 's too short for you to create a body of work that stands on its own . The quality of the courses largely determines , consequently , the quality of the Master 's . Prospective employers may use an institution 's reputation as a heuristic/proxy for the quality teaching . Attending a less prestigious institution will make it more difficult to get interviews . Not being able to attend the bigger names also means you miss out on their alumni networks . Create a compensatory professional network that overcomes these limitations . Most Master 's in CS programs have a semester-long project . Make an impressive project and shop it around . This is a good way to build rapport with potential employers .
Like Noah , I had a situation where two advisors co-signed a letter of recommendation . I should mention that the people reviewing the letter found this an unusual situation -- and had claimed that they had not seen that in twenty years of reading recommendation letters . So this is definitely not standard practice . I suspect it would be memorable , but I am not sure it would be actually useful . However , the difference was that my two co-signers were equal in rank . Your situation has a professor with a graduate student providing most of the insights . I suspect you will need to have the professor adapt the graduate student 's comments , and then sign the letter . In the case where feedback is needed , the professor would then need to get the relevant details from the graduate student .
It 's probably discipline-specific , but I hand mine out all the time . That being said , I talk to lots of vendors of computer hardware that I want to get back in touch with , so exchanging cards is helpful . As a grad student , it might be worth having some small cards from someone like <URL> that have your name , email , affiliation , and a link to your website . It might be easier to hand those out than to carry 20 preprints of your article when you 're giving a talk . All that being said , it 'd be pretty unusual to push your cards on people you meet at conferences . If someone asks for your information , or a copy of your publication , you might offer the card , but I would n't volunteer it unless you 've been asked for something . It 's just not part of the culture in most of the fields I have experience with for students to do so .
Yes , it is perfectly appropriate to refer to students in a class you are TAing as " my students . " You are teaching them ; hence , they are your students . It does n't really matter whether or not you are the primary instructor .
What you are describing is one form of <URL> . Although review articles more typically describe a more general state of the art on a problem , they can also be used to tie together and summarize a collection of linked papers into one coherent entry point . Doing this well will require creating quite a lot of new content -- it just wo n't be new technical results . Rather , the content created in such a paper is the distillation of a much larger body of work into a single coherent picture . This can be quite valuable for readers , because trying to reconstruct the picture of a body of work that is evolving over time and scattered across papers can be painful and difficult ; additional detail about particular points can then be obtained by following the citations to the source articles . Note also that if you write this article well there will be little risk of self-plagiarism , because you 'll need to rewrite everything pretty much from scratch to fit into the new and more compressed arrangement of ideas . So , in summary : it 's not only ethical , it is legitimate new work and can be highly valuable , just so long as you make the nature of the article extremely clear and include all of the relevant citations .
Speaking about major citation styles that I 've seen , I think that it could be the IEEE Citation Style , as your example matches the <URL> ( for non-electronic references , the in-text citation is the same , with the only difference , being related to reference list , is that the year is located at the end of the reference entry ) . Alternatively , if it is not the IEEE Style , it might be either a publication-specific style , adopted by a particular journal or other publication outlet , or a hybrid style , manually developed by some authors . Naturally , speaking about using LaTeX for biblographies , there are a couple of aspects that I 'd like to mention . Firstly , according to Mori ( 2009 ) , the citation style that you are curious about resembles the default reference formatting style for LaTeX . Secondly , if you use ( or plan to use ) LaTeX for producing your publications , the following sources , in addition to the paper by Mori , might be quite helpful for customizing bibliographic features to required or desired style : <URL> by Patrick Daly ( note that it describes a quite old version of package - try to find a more up-to-date version or a similar detailed guide ) , <URL> by Ki-Joo Kim and <URL> by Alan Munn . References Mori , L. F. ( 2009 ) . Managing bibliographies with LaTeX . TUGboat , 30 ( 1 ) . Retrieved from <URL>
Let 's find some official numbers and statistics . From <URL> : As a baseline , in 2012 , the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) National Research Service Award ( NRSA ) postdoctoral stipend for new postdocs was $ 39,264 , increasing to $ 54,180 for those with seven or more years of experience . Funding levels at universities are broadly similar . Post-doc salary guidelines depend on individual institutions , and benefits vary widely from place to place . In addition to salary , checking the benefits is important in the US , but less important in more civilized/socialistic ( strike out the inapplicable term ) countries . <URL> that gathers salary information from US job advertisements has the following for post-doctoral fellowships : Post-Doctoral Fellow average salary is $ 39,302 , median salary is $ 38,000 with a salary range from $ 20,779 to $ 961,896 . I think it 's safe to say that $ 961,896 is an outlier , but apart from that , the median matches the NRSA number . It also shows that there is a broad range of salaries , even by browsing the job listings on that site . For Europe , as I 've said the situation is heterogeneous . I know how to find numbers for UK , at least . If you look at <URL> for post-doctoral positions , the range appears to be # 28,000 -- # 37,000 ( apart from a few outliers ) . This would be roughly $ 44,000 -- $ 58,000 , but you have to adjust for taxes , health insurance , and then cost of living ( which can be quite high in UK ) . In France , <URL> is the largest scientific employer , and its <URL> is : The gross monthly salary of a CNRS postdoc is 2,500 $ As an anecdote , when I started as assistant professor , my salary was significantly lower than my post-doc salary . And even some of my post-docs in my group had higher pay than me ( as well as some industry-employed PhD students ) . But money 's not everything ...
Mexican here !! We also have two surnames , and to be perfectly honest we do not mind if you use both or only one of our last names . People call me Dr Palafox and my former advisor ( Who is the head of the CS department ) Dr Benitez . We are talking people from all the spectrum of workers , from administrative and cleaning staff to general directors . So is perfectly fine to use only one last name . Actually is going to sound weird if you end up using both names , because we rarely do . Even the President is rarely called by his 2 last names , unless is a very specific situation .
I work with this situation myself right now , as I am active simultaneously in two fields with these opposing publication cultures . This is further complicated by the fact that some of the publications I am most proud of are not peer reviewed in any fashion ( e.g. , standards documents ) . I thus simply organize all of my publications according to categories and try to include enough information that people from different fields may at least understand that there is a culture gap . The current categories in my CV are : Journal Articles Book Chapters &amp; Theses Peer-Reviewed Conference Articles Peer-Reviewed Conference Abstracts Workshops , Symposia , and Seminars Published Whitepapers and Technical Reports This allows me to distinguish between conferences that people should take seriously ( " Peer-Reviewed Conference Articles " ) and those which they should view as " light weight " ( " Peer-Reviewed Conference Abstracts " ) . Conference poster presentations that have n't even received meaningful peer review I do n't even list at this point , though at an earlier stage I would have put them down as another category .
This answer is written with a background of a subfield of applied CS , where conferences are a primary venue of publications . tl ; dr : Yes , it is normal . At the same time , it is unusual ( though not " seen as weird " ) for someone to actually attend all conferences related to their field . Indeed , it can be a good idea to attend a conference simply out of interest for the topic . Both learning about new research and especially making connections with other researchers are worthwhile goals . However , there are a number of reasons why it might not be realistically feasible : Some employers would not want to regularly cover travel expenses to conferences unless the attendee is presenting something ( " has to go " ) there , especially if they take place far away . To clarify , presenting something on the conference counts as a compelling reason that requires attendance ( even if it means the person gets to attend 5 or more conferences in a single year ) , while simply attending out of mere interest does not . As suggested by <URL> , there are also arrangements where the total number of conferences that will be funded within a given timespan is restricted by an upper limit . In such cases , " saving " conference trips for the instances where you actually can present something may be the way to go . Even if the conference takes place very closely , registration fees are sometimes considerable ( 600 $ or more ) . The time required to travel or at least to attend the conference is missing elsewhere . It is " just " a few days , but it is a few days ever so often that the conference attendee will not be available for progressing with their research and fulfilling their possible other duties ( e.g. giving or supporting classes , supervising students , performing non-research tasks required by their funding source and/or department , etc. ) . This is especially difficult with regular ( e.g. teaching-related ) duties , as they can not just be postponed ; someone has to fill in for the traveling researcher . Moreover , the value of visiting these conferences ( especially compared to other strategies for using your time that restrict conference visits to when you also present something yourself ) should not be overestimated : While a conference can usually be picked for being " on-topic " for your research , most conference scopes are often still wide enough so the vast majority of works presented there are at best " nice to see , though essentially unrelated " to your work ( especially in early stages of your PhD , where you are probably somewhat focused on rather narrow topics , as opposed to more senior researchers , who are more likely to be interested in a whole bunch of topics covered by their own group ) . This is less of a concern for workshops , which are usually more focused on a specific topic or set of questions . On the other hand , workshops ( at least <URL> ) often have lesser requirements to the completeness of contributions , and also sometimes later deadlines than the main conference . As such , it can be easier to still produce something to present on a workshop as a " justification " to attend the workshop ( and also the conference it is embedded in ) . While some talks are certainly interesting to watch , not all of them are . A bit of personal preference towards receiving information in talks vs. in writing certainly plays into this . Still , I think it can generally be said that attending a conference is not an overly efficient means to quickly get updated on a wide spectrum of new ideas , given that every single such idea occupies a timeslot of some 20 to 25 minutes . Finding new contacts tends to be a bit of a " gamble " that is , among other factors , influenced by the nature of the conference . Especially smaller conferences can easily have something like a " core community " that considers the conference their " annual meeting of old friends " , where it is very difficult to get into . Again , this depends a lot on your personality , of course ; different people are very differently skilled at getting in touch with strangers .
I do n't think the professor minds too much , but you should of course be prepared for him to decline if he chooses to . Though I myself could hardly care less , I have colleagues who would definitely think unsuitable ( because it 's not how it 's planned ) . However , I think the other students might mind , as you noted , if they began to see it as you " stealing " time from their limited allocation . As always , sharing is no problem unless the resource is scarce :) So , in short , I do n't think it 's a big problem , given that you are mindful of others .
At most US universities , Ph.D. students in mathematics usually receive full financial support that covers tuition as well as a modest stipend ( i.e. money paid to you directly for your living expenses , usually between $ 15,000-25 ,000 per year ) . This is normally some combination of : Teaching assistantship : requires that you teach . Often this starts with discussion sections for calculus and other introductory courses , and can progress to more specialized courses . Research assistantship : requires that working on research ( usually your own thesis research , but sometimes a different project ) . This often comes from your advisor 's grant funds . Fellowship : does n't require you to do any extra work , just your usual coursework or research . In my experience , the word " scholarship " is not usually used when talking about funding for graduate study . Note that the above only applies to Ph.D. programs . Masters students generally have to pay their own tuition and living expenses ( perhaps via loans ) , though sometimes a limited number of teaching assistantships , etc , are available .
I do n't see why it would be an issue . I 've been in a similar position in the past - recruiting at the university that I graduated from . On every trip , I made it a point to visit the department office to catch up with the department chair ( who was a professor when I was there ) , the academic advisers , and the professors . I never asked for a syllabus for courses , but I did make it a point to talk about changes to course content . I felt that doing this would help me stay closer to the department and college , but also would make me better at recruiting and interviewing since I would have a better understanding of what the students were learning in the classroom . I would encourage you to , somehow , stay in touch with changes to the classes that are core in the departments that you recruit from so you can be a better interviewer . I would also encourage you to share this information with HR and hiring managers so they know the capabilities . If there are new courses or new content , it could make the hiring process for interns or new graduates easier .
Here is one rule of thumb : You should be sufficiently confident with the topic to be able to guide your student to success . This means in particular that you should know the topic in which the student is supposed to work in well enough such that : You are certain that the workload is manageable in the time outlined by the examination regulations . You know that there is enough low hanging fruit in the topic such that it is clear that even a mediocre student should be able to write a thesis that is good enough for the standards of your field and school . There are some types of results that a student may obtain during the thesis work that would suffice for the student to write a great thesis , possibly leading to a subsequent publication ( given interest by the student ) . You think that you can advise the student with the problems that you expect to occur in the scope of the project . You have sufficient time to actually advise the student and in particular have the time to read into the details of the subject in case the student needs some guidance on them . Depending on the field , it is debatable whether it is OK to hand out topics of which the advisor has comparably little knowledge , given that all requirements from the list above are fulfilled . Also , the list above focuses on the minimum requirements . Again , it is debatable whether satisfying all points on the list is enough already ( unless I forgot something important ) . As far as coming up with new thesis topics is concerned : probably everyone has their own approach for this . One way is to collect the ideas that you have in your own research into idea lists , and after some time filtering them by the criteria above .
You should discuss this situation with your department graduate chair or a similar authority . It is important to give your program feedback so that they can improve . However , keep your feedback constructive . The word " report " is excessively negative . I think you should adopt some perspective . Often , graduate level courses are not treated as seriously as undergraduate courses because graduate students are expected to spend their time on independent research , not course work . Also , while you may be paying a lot of tuition , it is unlikely that an adjunct professor is receiving very much pay . Many adjuncts are working many jobs to pay their living expenses . They often receive no training from employers . Poor teaching by adjuncts can reflect problems with the structure of the institution rather than with the individual adjunct .
Actually , the NSF , in its <URL> , does not actually define the concept of an " investigator . " Instead , it chooses to define the different categories as " senior personnel " and " other personnel . " Typically , postdoctoral fellows and graduate students fall under " other personnel . " Personally , in such matters , I would opt on the side of caution and just have the graduate students fill out the conflict of interest form . It does n't take very long , and having it in place makes life easier for everyone .
If you are including your supervisors name , or anyone else 's name , you should notify them first and allow them to review the paper before sending it to the publisher . If you are just wanting to publish under your name alone , it depends . Are you publishing findings from data that belongs to your advisor ( or anyone else 's data ) ? Typically any data collected by you that was paid for by your funding agency belongs to the principal investigator , which is usually your advisor . You should ask for their permission before you publish findings from his or her data . This applies to abstract submissions as well .
end question
start question
What does " open " mean in science ?
<URL> sets out principles that define meaning of " open " with respect to knowledge and in relation to data and content . This is based on three fundamental rights : free to use , free to re-use , free to re-distribute for all . In other words : Open data and content can be freely used , modified , and shared by anyone for any purpose . which is synonymous with " free " or " libre " as in the <URL> . There are a <URL> for the most diverse data types ( images , text , audio , video , data , databases , source code , etc. ) that guarantee this openness by this definition . The meaning of " open " in the terms " open data " and " open content " ensures quality and encourages compatibility between different pools of open material . This can be summed up as : Open means anyone can freely access , use , modify , and share for any purpose ( subject , at most , to requirements that preserve provenance and openness ) . with respect to knowledge : Knowledge is open if anyone is free to access , use , modify , and share it -- subject , at most , to measures that preserve provenance and openness . For precise the meaning of " open " , check <URL> page ( or <URL> ) . Source : <URL>
Yes , characterizing revisions as " minor " strongly suggests that if you make those revisions the paper will be accepted . Editors may prefer not to explicitly say that the paper is " accepted with minor revisions " , because authors may make " minor revisions " that do n't correct the problems , and then feel that they 've been promised publication in spite of that . Depending on the journal , the editor , and the revisions , the manuscript may or may not go out to re-review once again , and even if it does n't a one-week delay from submission to re-evaluation is not surprising . In my field ( biology ) I would n't be surprised to hear back about acceptance anywhere from 1 day to 1 month after re-submission .
As Peter Shor indicates , one can not uniquely decode the professor 's intent from this response . You 'll have to get more information from him to be confident of his motivations . Let me say that taking on a coadvisor could show a lack of confidence in the student , but more commonly it shows an advisor 's lack of confidence in her own experience or is done for a good , subject-oriented reason ( i.e. , to bring in specific expertise ) . My first PhD student -- taken on when I was not yet tenured -- was coadvised with a more senior faculty member . This was because I was nervous about myself , not about him ( he was really great ) , but independently of my own gingerness it turned out to be a very good idea because his second adviser imparted some key technical knowledge that got used in his thesis in a very nice way . Now ( I am tenured and ) I have four students who are solely advised by me : I got a little older is the main difference . So I can understand this faculty member 's perspective . On the other hand , at least in my field ( mathematics ) advising a master 's student is much easier than advising a PhD student : they stay for 1/3 to 1/2 of the time and the whole experience is not as intense . Because of this , " splitting " a master 's student is less common ( and no examples spring to mind , but then again in mathematics , a master 's degree is more likely to be done rather casually en route to greater things or as a terminal degree ) . From a neutral ( read : uninformed ) outsider 's perspective , I would say that if you 're already sitting in this guy 's research group then that 's pretty close to taking you on as a master 's student . One thing you could try is just to organically increase your interactions without " putting a label on it " . In other words , instead of sitting in on the group , can you actually do some work for the group ? If so , you basically are this guy 's master 's student , and after a couple of months of work it will be much easier for all involved to call it that . If on the other hand you express an interest in doing work for his group and he tells you why you ca n't at the moment ... then there 's your answer . Another tack to take would be to ask the professor for a specific suggestion of who could co-advise you . Then you can take it up with that person ... who of course may suggest single-handedly advising you . I think the suggestion to co-advise without a specific person in mind to do the other half of the advising shows that he is not very enthusiastic about advising you . Good luck .
Great question ! Unfortunately , I think there are not going to be great answers . Three ideas have come up in my discussions with users of registry data : Describe data access procedures completely : Be as transparent as you possibly can be about how you acquired the data , how others can acquire them , and what the policies and costs associated with acquisition would be . Show everything that you can : While you can not share the raw data , you can likely share a considerable amount of information from the data . For example , you can include descriptive statistics and graphics that convey the univariate and multivariate patterns in the data . You may also be able to share certain aggregated statistics ( e.g. , data aggregated at a block or city level ) . Offer to collaborate : You may have privileged access to data ( i.e. , other simply will not be able to access it ) . In that case , to the extent allowed by data access rules , you should offer the ability to run analyses for others and collaborate with them using the data . This would mean that even your critics can use the data in a meaningful public exchange of ideas , even if the data themselves can not be made public .
Virtually everyone gets rejected from at least one of the places they apply to . I have never heard of anyone who got through the process without getting rejected somewhere . I even got rejected from several places that were lower ranked than the ones I did get in to ! So no , one single rejection is not a sign that you are applying to the wrong level of universities . In fact , you should probably expect more rejections . Depending on the subject there can be 5-10 qualified applicants for each spot , so lots of good candidates are rejected every year . If you discussed what universities to apply to with the professors writing your recommendation letters , you are probably applying to universities of the right " level " . The sheer number of applications means that you will get some rejections anyway . With that said : if your are really set on graduate school , it is a good idea to apply to a wide range of schools on different levels .
In the help page you link to , there are three relevant subheadings : For journals that publish only subscription articles ( snip ) For journals that publish only open access articles ( snip ) For journals that publish both subscription articles and open access articles : Adjustments in individual journal subscription list prices are made in the same way as for journals that publish only subscription articles . We do not count open access articles when setting subscription prices for titles . Subscription prices are therefore not affected by the volume of open access articles published in the journal . Adjustments in article publishing fees ( APCs ) are made in the same way as for articles that are published in journals that publish only open access articles . We do not count subscription articles when setting APC prices for articles . APC prices are therefore not affected by the volume of subscription articles published in the journal . The first two sections explain how Elsevier set subscription prices for subscription-only ( no OA ) journals , and publication fees for OA-only journals . The third section , on mixed OA/non-OA journals , refers to the previous two and explains How subscription prices are set , taking OA articles into account ( they are not counted in the calculation according to the first section ) How OA publication fees are set , taking subscriptions into account ( they are not counted in the calculation according to the second section ) Bottom line : the idea is not that you get a waiver for your subscription based on how many OA articles you ( or your school ) has published in the journal . Nor is it that you get a reduced OA publication fee based on subscribing to the journal ( yourself or through your school ) . Rather , everything is lumped together . It 's simply a mixed calculation .
As was mentioned in the comments , one possibility is that the editors are waiting for a better time to publish the paper , perhaps as part of a special issue or to highlight the paper on its cover . Another possibility is that the authors have not fulfilled some requirements for publication like signing a copyright transfer form or paying the page charges . Or perhaps there are some problematic issues about the paper . Maybe the topic is controversial and some members of the board do n't want it published , or perhaps the editors suspect some unethical publication practice . ( If it is this last reason , then perhaps it would be impolite to ask the authors about it . )
In Germany , access to universities is regulated by the Numerus Clausus system , which basically says that the number of students admitted to any given programme at a university can be either unrestricted or restricted to a fixed number of students . For an unrestricted programme , students just need to fulfill the basic formal criteria ( they need a german Abitur , or an equivalent ) . For most restricted programmes on bachelor level , prospective students need to apply and are then ranked based solely on their Abitur grades ( plus a few exceptions for corner cases , foreign students with no german Abitur , etc. ) . For restricted master level programmes , many universities ( including , apparently , TU Kaiserslautern , as linked by the original poster above ) have adopted a more US-style admission system , which is based not only on previous grades but also on letters of recommendation , statements of interest , interviews , etc. . TU Kaiserslautern also has its selection procedure <URL> . This will vary per university , though . Edit : to answer your subquestion ( which I happened to have missed the first time around ) : Do German universities discriminate students on the basis of their age ? No , not in general , and certainly not officially .
To answer some of your questions , a lot of this will vary from university to university , and vary by location . One major aspect is to determine your research focus as early as possible and plan long and medium term objectives , and how these objectives are to be met at the beginning , in consultation with your advisors ( that is the advice I was given ) . Duration There is usually an upper limit of how long a student can take to complete the dissertation , and it is generally expected that the research , experiments , dissertation write up is performed within the time frame dictated by the university . Note , the length of time taken to complete the PhD is not necessarily a measure of how credible it is . ( I completed my PhD in Physics in 2.5 years ) . Papers are often published in consultation between you and your advisor ( s ) . But , during my PhD I was advised that it is a good idea to get some publications completed while you are studying ( I completed 4 while completing the research ) . Courses This varies between universities and places , for example , I was not required to take any courses whatsoever - just pure research . That is something you will need to check with any university you apply to . I did my PhD while working full time in an unrelated field , so I arranged regular ( fortnightly ) Skype meetings with my advisors , where short term goals were set and the medium and long term goals checked up on . As you are doing sciences by the looks of it , it will involve a considerable amount of experimentation ( potentially ) - some of it can be tedious , make sure you plan and get into that as soon as possible , while ensuring you get the most accurate possible data in a safe and efficient manner . Completion You complete your research when you have met your objectives and have , through research and experimentation , ' answered ' your research focus . What happens then varies between universities , some you will be expected to defend your thesis , and some , as in my case , your thesis is peer-reviewed . Once all that is done and your advisors and the university are satisfied , you will be told that you have passed ( in my case , I received a letter stating as such ) . But , the research never really ends , once you have that passion for that topic - you may find that the research continues , but now to be published as papers ( this also has been my experience ) . Find a topic that ignites the fire in you and you 'll find that the PhD is just the start of the journey . Finally and critically , make sure what you are doing is something that you find fascinating , something that you wo n't mind putting in many hours of research and work into . Choose something that is either your passion or something related to it . Get ready to challenge yourself on a regular basis . I hope this helps .
Is re-rewriting the core function of a world class - well known open source project ( where performance is a crucial ) and optimizing it to be 2-3 times faster , considered research ? It might be , but only under certain restrictions : You need to be sure no-one has written about the improvement before . And I am not talking about the particular piece of code in the particular project you are looking at here , but about the conceptual idea of how to improve the code . If you want to present your work as a scientific contribution , it needs to be conceptually novel in a way that no-one has described the methods you use in an abstract way before . You need to present your improvement on an abstract , generalized level . Modifying a particular project is nice , but it is not research . Showing a novel method how to modify any number of projects that feature a particular problem can be . Your change should not be entirely obvious . While research contributions do not necessarily need to be totally unexpected or groundbreakingly obscure ideas , if many developers could make the same modifications to the project simply by applying their professional knowledge , your contribution is probably not considered valuable enough , even if no-one else has described the actual procedure before . To answer concretely to your points : The idea is to parallelize it as much as possible , This might be interesting for a paper if it involves any methods for parallelization that were previously unknown , and that can be applied to other applications , as well . modify ( a bit ) well known data structures to be faster for the specific case , A " specific case " is usually not interesting for research results ; it only becomes interesting if you can show the " specific case " is generalizeable in some way . use a more suited language If you design a new language that is specifically suited for the type of applications in question , that could be publishable as research , at least if that language has conceptual advantages over existing domain-specific or general purpose languages for any class of applications . The mere translation into an existing language is most probably not publishable as research . and ( a bit ) more suited algorithms than the open source project used . If those algorithms are already known , it is probably somewhat obvious that they could be used on that particular proejct . As such , this is not a research contribution . I am applying what others made . Yes , fine . I do n't create an entirely new algorithm or data structure . Well , do you create anything conceptually new at all ? But on the other hand , I guess there are 1,000 s of papers published out there and many of them add little value , while my work will help improve the open source project . " little value " is relative . In research publications , value does not mean a solution can readily be used . Rather than that , value is usually seen as the product of the degree by which a problem is solved/situation is improved if the presented knowledge is applied the amount of cases in which that problem occurred/to which the solution is applicable Due to the second item , whether or not you already apply your method to one particular project is hardly relevant . As soon as it is known how to solve the issue , the research is done . Implementing the solution in a project may be helpful to the users of the project , but it does not advance the knowledge of humanity and as such , does not warrant a research publication in and of itself . To summarize : A research publication is not about what has been done , but about what has been learned .
In electronic submission systems the manuscript ( MS ) is handled according to a certain work flow . When a MS is submitted it has to be assigned to an editor who will check , for example , if the MS is appropriate for the journal or adheres to journal " Instructions for Authors " ( or equivalent ) . The editor will then either start to assign reviewers to your MS or pass it on to an Associate editor ( equiv . ) to do the same . Then several rounds follow that is beyond this post . Thus there are lots of steps that your MS will undergo and the system will signals some subset of all steps involved . So the likely interpretation of your observed change in status is that the journal , possibly through some administrator , has assigned the MS to an editor for further processing . This does not necessarily mean much but it shows your MS is on its way forward in the journal work flow . The process of moving a MS to a new step can be done very quickly and will largely depend on the timing of the person doing the chore . In the journal where I am editor , there is a six day limit to move MS from submitted to an editor . Usually the move is made within 24 hours and shorter depending on when the MS is submitted and when the admin checks the newly submitted MS list . Se also this <URL>
I too have struggled at times to find this balance . I 'm coming from math and computer science ( rather than social science ) , but I think the field matters less than the type of work . If what you 're trying to do is cognitively intense , then it 's really important to be well-rested and to maintain focus . In grad school , I often would bang my head for hours on problems without much progress . Now if I work for 45 minutes or an hour with little progress , I 'll go for a short walk , get a light snack , do jumping jacks , or play a quick web game ; all of these are ways to reset my focus and attention . Probably the single most useful skill I 've learned is to be more aware of my current state ( energy level , focus , sleepiness , hunger , emotional state ) and try to choose work appropriate for ( doable in ) that state . For more thoughts on this idea , I recommend the advice given by Terry Tao here : <URL>
Off the top of my head , I can think of American CS faculty who have been supported by grants , contracts , or gifts from each of the following : US funding agencies : DARPA , Department of Defense , Department of Energy , National Instutites of Health , Department of Homeland Security , Office of Naval Research , Army Research Office , Department of Education , NASA , ... Foreign funding agencies ( usually in concert with NSF , for international collaborations ) : Deutsche Forshungsgemeinschaft ( Germany ) , Centre national de la recherche scientifique ( France ) , Israeli Science Foundation , Danish National Research Foundation , ... Private foundations : Sloan , Packard , Simons , Fulbright , Guggenheim , ... Industry : Google , Microsoft , Facebook , Cisco , Boeing , Adobe , NVidia , ...
Yes , try looking at the <URL> and their study management website , the <URL> . They primarily deal in psychology and cancer biology studies right now , but I 'm sure other areas of science are welcome or will be soon .
As was suggested in the comments , if you want to share your thesis with researchers in other countries , it is better to write it in English than in other languages . However , I will go further than that and say that in the 21st century , English is the lingua franca of communication in most technical fields . If you want to participate in the wider technical community in a meaningful way , developing your ability to express yourself in English , both orally and in written form , is essential . Therefore , you should avail yourself of opportunities to work in English whenever practical . It is still important to be able to communicate in your local language , but this is becoming less of an issue as time goes on : for many people , they do scientific work in English , even if their everyday workplace conversations are in another language !
Many journals publish correspondence or short reports that are brief research works , usually with a single finding , straightforward methods , and not much more than that . They are intended for quick , " Hey , we 've always wanted to know the value of X , and turns out it 's 7 " studies - they belong in the literature , and may be useful , but are not a full research paper . They are often also referred to as letters , notes , or by other names . Sometimes they 're purely defined by concept , sometimes by word count . For example , consider Ecology : " Notes are short papers that present significant new observations and methodological advances . Notes may contain results that are not sufficiently elaborated or developed as to justify an Article , but which are still of considerable potential significance . " vs. " ... an Article tells a more complicated story with distinct components . The greater length of Articles relative to Reports must be justified by their greater complexity Or American Journal of Epidemiology , which uses word counts : The maximum number of words per article , exclusive of tables , figures , references , and abstract , should be as follows : Original Contribution , 3,500 ; ... Brief Original Contributions , 2,000 ( with no more than 2 half-page tables and 40 references ) or Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology : Original Articles should include a title page , a structured abstract of no more than 250 words ( see below ) , a text of no more than 3,000 words , no more than 7 tables and figures , and no more than 40 references . Concise Communications should include a title page , a narrative abstract of no more than 50 words , a text of no more than 1,200 words , no more than 2 tables or figures , and no more than 10 references . Research Briefs should include a title page , a text of no more than 900 words , no more than 1 table or figure , and no more than 10 references . This category of article is intended for the presentation of short , focused , and evidence-based experimental observations : substantial preliminary and novel results of importance to the journal readership but not substantial enough in content to warrant a longer presentation . Research Briefs undergo the same peer review as longer article types . Your paper is either too short , or only presents a short , focused result that the journal does not consider a " full " paper . It 's hard to know , as they wo n't exactly lay out the definitions of papers they do n't accept , but you may want to look at similar journals to see if there is a field-based consensus for what a sufficiently large finding is .
It has to be a conference with a rebuttal phase , where the authors can answer the main points raised by the reviewers , who in turn will be able to draw more conclusive remarks on the paper itself see also here : <URL>
Is there any academic value in publishing a book that is based ( approx . three quarters of it ) on existing ( peer-reviewed ) material ? If well done , this seems like a useful book to me . Bringing together various related papers , adding some expository material for readers not yet intimately aware of the field , providing some perspective through use cases ... why not ? Remember that in CS , the point of books is almost never to have original material . Books in CS are meant as a collection / introduction to a topic , not as a venue for new research contributions ( that 's what we have conferences for ) . Also , as I am considering applying for assistant professor positions ( I am currently working on contract basis ) , I would like to ask how is this book monograph viewed at by hiring committees ? Is it considered vanity or a plus ? Springer is n't a typical vanity press outlet , so I ca n't see a hiring committee outright discarding your publication there . I guess it will be a small plus ( or a bigger plus , if the book turns out really good and becomes better-known in the field ) . However , your actual original research will probably be much more significant .
Generally " archival quality " implies some level of " completeness " and comprehensiveness ( to the degree that any work of science and engineering can really be " complete . " ) In many fields , early work can be published in some conferences , but journal papers that are expected to be " archival quality " are supposed to be more mature . To quote from this <URL> : Conference papers are usually short , and deal with very recent research results or new ideas illustrated by preliminary experiments . An archival journal paper , on the contrary , contains an overview of the state-of-the-art ( with references to other 's and one 's own past work ) , a problem statement , the concept of a solution , a discussion of the theoretical background , experimental set-up , sound measurement data , an evaluation of the results , discussion and conclusions -- a much more complete presentation of the overall project and its results .
<URL> sets out principles that define meaning of " open " with respect to knowledge and in relation to data and content . This is based on three fundamental rights : free to use , free to re-use , free to re-distribute for all . In other words : Open data and content can be freely used , modified , and shared by anyone for any purpose . which is synonymous with " free " or " libre " as in the <URL> . There are a <URL> for the most diverse data types ( images , text , audio , video , data , databases , source code , etc. ) that guarantee this openness by this definition . The meaning of " open " in the terms " open data " and " open content " ensures quality and encourages compatibility between different pools of open material . This can be summed up as : Open means anyone can freely access , use , modify , and share for any purpose ( subject , at most , to requirements that preserve provenance and openness ) . with respect to knowledge : Knowledge is open if anyone is free to access , use , modify , and share it -- subject , at most , to measures that preserve provenance and openness . For precise the meaning of " open " , check <URL> page ( or <URL> ) . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
How do I appropriately use inline citations for multiple quoted paragraphs ?
From what I 've seen , the only situation in which you would use a single citation following multiple sentences is if it 's obvious that you 're quoting that source verbatim AND the quote is uninterrupted . If you 're using your own terminology OR the quote is interrupted , you should cite each sentence separately . This becomes obvious when considering the purpose of a citation . Citations are there to answer the question , " who said this ? " If you 're quoting someone verbatim , and it 's obvious you 're doing so , then you only need a single citation , as the reader will infer that it applies to the entire preceding quote . On the other hand , if you have multiple claims throughout a paragraph , after each claim the reader will wonder , " what 's his source for this ? " In most cases , you will be using multiple sources , and you will have a mixture of references . However , even if you have a single source for lots of claims , the reader will still wonder after each claim what the source is . You should tell them the source of each and every claim separately . The exception I 've seen -- and that my advisor requested I use in my writing -- is in the instance of a single logical thought pattern being followed throughout a paragraph or set of paragraphs . If you 're describing someone else 's work , it can be justifiable to state , " the following is an overview of Bob ( 2007 ) " , or something to that effect . From my experience , though , that usually only happens in review articles .
The reason why we have figure numbers ( or for that matter , equation numbers ) is to ensure that calling these numbered objects becomes easier , you can identify these things with their labels . In fact , if you keep pasting the figure over and over again , whenever it is needed in the text , you will unnecessarily lengthen your thesis , and confuse the reader , who will scroll back to the earlier instance to see what is the difference from what he/she saw there . Simply identify it by the figure number , and refer to it as Fig. 1.1 ( or whatever it is , more generically , Fig . \ ref { figure_label } if you are using LaTeX ) , in all later instances when you feel the need to call it . This befits clarity , conciseness and convention - all three of them .
I personally am comfortable with both ways , for exactly the reasons that you give : it 's entirely reasonable to refer to either the authors or the paper . The important thing is to be consistent with your usage throughout a manuscript , else your readers may wonder why you feel it appropriate to refer to some authors directly but not others .
You do not need to use reference managers . However , if you use some reference managers like Mendeley then , some of the benefits are obvious : The pdf of your article is linked to the reference itself . You can organize references into logical groups ( areas , subjects , disciplines , sub-disciplines ) by utilizing folders and tags . You can one-click save articles and organize them from your browser . This is invaluable in saving time on organizing . You can sync across multiple devices like desktops , laptops and tablets . For instance , Mendeley has an iOS app which does this for you . I use Android so I workaround using Droideley or Scholarley . You can read your articles inside the reference manager and then do useful things like highlighting and annotations which can then be saved as notes for future reference . You can export to specific citation styles . This is very useful for someone doing interdisciplinary work . For instance , I have to constantly use the same or similar bibliography using APA style , ACM style , IEEE style . They are very useful for multiple collaborative platforms . For instance , when collaborating with some computer science colleagues , I generally use LaTeX and Mendeley does a brilliant one-click job of exporting to BibTeX . When I work with social scientists , I generally use MS Word and there is a MS Word plugin for Mendeley which dynamically adds references in-line as well as the full bibliography at the end of the document . I hope this has been partially useful to you . This is a little Mendeley focused and I am in no certain terms claiming that it is the best or the most useful . However , for me , it certainly has its advantages .
Necessary disclaimer : I have not had to be involved in REF . This is what I summarized from my experience of the recent French evaluation system . Reading the REF guidelines , it seems pretty similar in focus ( although to be honest , for all their wordiness , I prefer the very detailed REF guidelines over the French way of not explicitly detailing every rule ) . So , with that out of the way , I would say there are two ways to " improve " what is essentially one 's societal impact . Both are important . On paper This is the short-term way of improving your impact : just present it better . Peruse the guidance documents ( and possibly other guidance , including documents your local university might issue in order to help its staff ) , write down the relevant keywords , list all items that can be counted towards " impact " . Then , brainstorm ( possibly with colleagues or friends ! ) for ways to tie your already existing contributions to these items . Sometimes it is just a matter of remembering stuff you did n't think of ( in my case , I remembered that we had some colleagues from an industrial company who showed up at a series of tutorials ) . For real Of course , you can also try to influence your plans to include more activities of clear societal impact . There are unlimited number of things you could come up with , and they depend widely on context ( which you did not give ) . Keeping it short and generic , here are a few good examples that I can think of ( some of them more applicable in some fields , obviously ) : organize panel discussions on your favorite topic , open to the general public open lab day " cultural heritage " research create visualizations of your research ( pictures , movies , whatever ) , and publish it interviews or other interventions in the media ( even local ) being listed on experts registries : courts , journalism schools all kinds of work with local artists workshop or discussion groups involving academic and industrial communities being a member of a standardization body It looks like some sort of random list , cause I tried to list diverse activities . I 'm sure others will have plenty of ideas to add !
just saw this question on Twitter by chance , and I think I can answer it . At the moment , Google Scholar search results are not affected by the fact the person you 're searching has created a Google Scholar Citations account . The correct way to search for this Russian researcher on Google Scholar would be : author : " [ cyrillic spelling ] " OR author : " [ latin spelling ] " That way you would get both sets of citations .
I may have an unusual perspective on this , since many mathematics Ph.D. programs in the U.S. fund all their students ( at least through teaching ) . In this context , I 'd recommend against even mentioning the possibility of self-funding : It sounds unconfident , like you do n't expect to receive funding , and this is not a positive impression to convey . You do n't want to give the impression that you feel your own application is subpar , and that you 're bargaining to try to turn a rejection into an unfunded acceptance . This might be a reasonable approach at the end of the process , if you 're stuck on a waiting list , but it 's a problematic way to begin . Letting Ph.D. students go into debt feels exploitative , especially in a program in which most or all of the other students are funded , and letting wealthy people buy their way into graduate school is also troubling . There will be worries about how sustainable your self-funding is . In a year or two , your money or willingness to go into debt may run out , and the department would have to choose whether to come up with money for you or kick you out . That 's an unpleasant choice , and the admissions committee may even worry that you are deliberately aiming for this situation ( in the hope that they wo n't be willing to kick you out once you 've joined the department ) . In the sort of programs I 'm familiar with , announcing in advance that you would be willing to self-fund a Ph.D. wo n't increase your chances of admission . I 've only seen this come up very rarely , and the admissions committee has simply ignored the offer of self-funding and made a decision of acceptance with funding or rejection . I can easily imagine that it could decrease the chances of admission a little , although I have n't seen a clear-cut case of that . By contrast , if you are awarded a prestigious fellowship with guaranteed funding for a certain number of years , you should certainly make sure admissions committees know about it . That does n't have any of these disadvantages . However , it 's not in your best interests to offer to pay your own way unless that 's a common and respected approach in your field .
One solution to <URL> is <URL> ( open source , BSD license ) , which is a Python module that implements a querier and parser for Google Scholar 's output . Its classes can be used independently , but it can also be invoked as a command-line tool . Amongst other things , it can fetch the number of citations of an article .
You should be able to put both affiliations on . I assume you are permanently employed , in which case that is more permanent than the academic address . However , if your published work is done as part of your schooong you should put that affiliation first , perhaps listing your job affiliation/address as " permanent " or something describing your employment . The reason for putting your academic affiliation first is that it is within that you have done the work and probably received intellectual coaching and support ( if you receive similar input also from work then that affiliation might be equally valid as first ) . Listing two affiliations is common and the reason is typically when people move between institutes and it is important to keep readers aware of one whereabouts in such circumstances . In your case you will likely be found at your company in the future ( my assumption ) and it therefore makes sense to list also that .
I had some serious qualms about this when I started out research in undergrad . My advisor had some pretty mistaken notions about the topic we were pursuing at the time . He is a very approachable and understanding guy but I was still a bit hesitant to say anything . After all , he was the established expert and I was the lowly undergrad . How I approached it was along the lines of : " I 'm not sure if I 'm doing this correctly but would you mind checking my work ? Maybe you can explain what I 'm doing wrong . " You do n't want to challenge or outright claim your advisor is wrong . You would n't do this to a friend  and you really should n't do it to an advisor - it 's a good way to ruin your professional relationship . If you 're right , you 've come off as very arrogant and create some animosity between you and your advisor ; if you 're wrong , you 've let your arrogance get the better of you and killed your credibility . Professors are human and they can be mistaken more often than you 'd think . You 're going to run into this a lot more than you might have thought . After a while , you can start to be more upfront and honest after you 've established plenty of rapport , but early on it is a bad idea .  I 've done this and nearly ended a friendship with a very good friend because my arrogance got the better of me .
Keep it short and succinct , I would say a paragraph is good , unless otherwise stated in the application . If this means that you only have enough space to talk about one of those areas , then pick one . If the conference is more geared towards pure mathematics , I would suggest expanding on your interest in cryptography . Otherwise , if it is an applied mathematics conference , then talk about your studies in biological math . Chances are schools which specialize in pure mathematics will attend a pure mathematics conference , and likewise for applied math . If you want to find out the universities who are attending , just ask an event coordinator . I 'm sure there is n't any secrecy surrounding who is attending .
If you mean " is it outrageous to ask a librarian to collect research papers for you , " then no , it 's not outrageous ; some librarians do that , though rarely the librarians working in public libraries . For most university students ( at least in the US . You 're in Indonesia so the system may vary , ) they go to their school libraries because the collections are much closer to their fields of study . The librarians are also more proficient in handling academics-related questions . If you do have an affiliated university , I 'll check with the librarians there first . If you do n't have one , then I 'll next try to contact some librarians of state-funded or nationally funded universities ( especially if you are a tax payer . ) Most of these public schools open their libraries or provide limited consultation to the public . It would also be valuable to ask if they have any kind of borrower program or consortium you can join : later you may need to download a lot of journal articles and having an access to their server can save you a lot of money . If both of these are no goes , then you can try the public libraries . However , the librarians may not be available to fetch articles for you . Instead , you may ask them for resources ( pamphlet , booklet , website ) on how to perform a literature search ( I 'm assuming literature , but they can also show you other curated forms such as microfilm , legal archive , etc. ) Most public libraries do not subscribe highly professional/specialized journals due to the high price , so realize that your scope can be limited somewhat . If all of these yield no results . I 'd suggest at least pay a graduate students or instructor for 2-3 hours to give you a general rundown/tutorial . As I have said , most librarians will not be able to do the search for you . And it 's better for you , as the researcher , to have the first hand experience and control of the process . At the very least , try ask the librarians about database you should search , how to select keywords , how to export and keep results , what bibliography software is available , reference books on writing literature review etc. . Lastly , the quality of help you are going to get is proportional to the clarity of your vision about the work . The more concrete you can describe your work , the easier for them . Things you should consider are as follows : What is the topic ? What is ( are ) the main question ( s ) you want to answer ? -- in this part , be very explicit about time , location , and other important qualifier ( think <URL> ) How far back in time do you need to go ? What is the purpose of the document ? E.g. For a blog , for a grant proposal , or for an assignment ?
First off , if the professor is reluctant to have you talk to members of the group , this is a huge red flag . When you visit , ask if you can sit in on lab meetings or seminars ( some group setting ) and observe the dynamic . Does everyone seem engaged and happy to be there ? Is the mood collaborative and friendly , or authoritarian ? Basically , put yourself there and ask yourself if you 'd be comfortable . Ask the professor about their advising style and philosophy . Some like to be very involved , some want their students to be independent . Make sure their answer works for you . Most important one , in my opinion : contact a few of the other students independently , tell them you are coming to visit , and offer to take them out for a coffee or beer . This is an opportunity to ask them , in a relaxed non-work setting , about what they like and do n't like about working in the lab . Do not tell the professor what the students are thinking , in any case .
A numbered equation always takes a separate line , so there is no question here -- if you need to refer to some equation later in the text , it deserves a separate line and it needs a number . If your equation is as long as a line , or even longer , then again -- it should always be placed out-of-text . To answer the rest of your question , we should think a little how we ( e.g. your readers ) read inline equations , and how we read equations on separate lines . First of all , inline equations merge into the text , and provide some smoothness ( it is just like you speak and draw on a whiteboard at the same time ) . In contrast , equations of a separate line break the text ( just like you write a long equation on a whiteboard and take a big pause to let your audience reflect on it ) . If there are no pauses in the text , it is hard to comprehend . Too many pauses raise similar problems , because it becomes difficult to focus on the most important pieces then . My advice is to think about the role of each equation and put only the most important equations in a spotlight of a separate line .
It is not entirely unreasonable to include a citation in an abstract , if the reason you are citing it is because your paper is a major extension , rebuttal , or counterpoint to the cited article . In that case , however , you do have the responsibility of providing the reference within the body of the abstract . For example , We extend upon the results of Smith [ Journal of Very Important Results , 1 , 374 ( 2012 ) ] to include the effects of a doohickey at the end of the thingamajig . In such a case , the abstract remains self-contained , with an important citation included . ( This is especially essential if an author is well-known for multiple papers , in which case the reference can be used to distinguish the varous works that could be intended . ) Large numbers of citations , however , should be avoided , as should " secondary " citations . Only the most critical literature for a paper should be cited , and that should normally be limited to one or two . Any more than that , and the abstract becomes hard to read .
You cite precisely the version that you use and add something like " 5th edition " ( that is what the " edition " - entry is there for in BibTeX ) . Be careful to use the correct year !
Reject . No work exists in isolation . The authors need to position their work in relation to existing work , and this requires more than just putting a bunch of papers in the bibliography section : it requires a detailed comparison . The authors failed to do this . In any case , there will always be another conference for them to resubmit to .
First thing : the exact format will depend on the styleguide your are following . However , apart from variations in the exact formatting , just refer to it exactly as you do . The US constitution , for example , would be cited <URL> : U.S. Const . art . I ,  3 . U.S. Const . amend . XIX . U.S. Const . amend . XVIII ( repealed 1933 ) . depending on whether you cite an article from the original constitution , or a ( possibly since-repealed ) amendment . Somewhat tongue-in-cheek edit : I could not find a DOI ( Digital Object Identifier ) for the constitution of Montenegro ( nor for the US constitution , for that matter ) . If you find one , you might want to include it in your citation ( in the form of a hyperlink ) . If it does not exist , you may petition the Montenegrin government to create one .
When you have such a substantial chunk of information attributable to one source it can be useful to start the text by simply declaring the source . This can be done in the following way ( exact formulation can of course be changed ; I chose Harvard style referencing as an example ) : The following [ x ] paragraphs follow Name ( yyyy ) unless stated otherwise . The formulation can be changed to better blend in with the text by adding details about what the information is about or why this source is good or should be repeated , or both . The " unless stated otherwise " can be omitted if you have no need to add other references in these paragraphs ; I added it for completeness .
In most countries , there exist high performance computers that researchers can apply for access to . For example , in Sweden there is the <URL> , and other countries have similar projects . When you get access , you get a limited number of core-hours ( for example , if you have 5000 core hours , you can run 50 cores for 100 hours or 500 cores for 10 hours ) to be used over a specific period of time ( for example , one year ) . To apply for access , you may have to go through someone who is employed at a university , if you are n't . If you are a student , you hopefully have a supervisor who can apply for your project . Or they might have special services for students !
end question
start question
Is one or two years ' postdoc experience helpful for a ( nonacademic ) research career ?
It 's hard to define " helpful " : yes , it 's better to do a postdoc in a top place rather than staying at home , but if you want to work in research industry , it might be better to do some development for a year rather a completely unrelated postdoc in the middle of nowhere . If you want to apply for a position , you have to understand the competition you might be facing : positions in the top research labs ( public/private ) are highly attractive , and you would be facing people with good achievements in academia ( publications in top venues , PI for important grants , extensive network for collaboration , etc ) , and/or people with good achievement in industry ( project managers , success for a specific product , good contact with academia , etc ) . So , the question is not whether it 's good or not to do a postdoc , but what will a particular postdoc bring to you : a different research topic , increasing your multi/inter-disciplinary skills a very promising research topic , potentially increasing your visibility by publishing at top venues a collaboration with industry , thus increasing your academia/industry network etc A good approach could be to check , when available , the CVs of the people working at a research lab you could be interested to , as it could give you a good idea of what they did before joining the lab .
I see no inherent problem with industry funding for Ph.D. , and in many cases it can be a benefit . Certainly in computer science there is a broad spectrum of options for different types of research career ( government , large industry , startups , government ) , and it 's not unusual for people to move between them multiple times over the course of a career . As long as you are publishing well and frequently , you 'll have lots of options .
Visa issues can be seriously problematic , especially given the high degree of arbitrariness that is often applied toward people coming from disfavored countries in the developing world . For example , consider the <URL> . Given this I would recommend using the following criteria in making a decision : Is the person being reasonably aggressive in acting to secure a visa ? If the student is attempting to secure a visa and being blocked/slowed by outside forces , time to secure the visa should not be held against them . If the person is not bothering to act towards securing a visa , then it 's the same as not bothering to physically move , and they can be let go with a clean conscience . Is there a concrete time limit on the funds ? If external requirements mean the money is on a short-term " use it or lose it " status , e.g. , a 1-year externally funded project that includes a task for a postdoc , then the person may be disqualified through no fault of their own by the circumstances . In this case , I think it is appropriate to put the deadline early enough to have a reasonable chance at hiring an alternate person to fill the post . The deadline should be made clear to candidates as early as possible , however . If the timeline can be flexed and the person is being reasonably aggressive in pursuing the visa , however , I think that it is morally important for the ideals of science to continue to extend the offer . Science should be , to the extent possible , practiced openly for the general benefit of humanity , and it needs all of the diversity of strong intellectual contributors that it can obtain , no matter where they may originate , so long as they are honest and open contributors . Giving a person time for visa issues to resolve is one small but important thing that an individual scientist can do to support that ideal .
In modern dynamic society it is next to impossible to predict what happens with education systems , universities , and job market in 20 years time . Also , the success in finding an academic job depends highly on the skill of a candidate , and we do not know what your skills are now , and will be after 20 years . It is unlikely that you find the precise answer to your question here . However , it is very likely that a proper education , and a " badge " which confirms it , will be still of some value . Therefore , quitting the high school may really be not the wisest choice . Of course , there are stories of prominent success of people without any degree , and it is tempting to revolt the system and prove yourself a hero . Just bear in mind that a great amount of people without any degree achieve nothing and remain unknown to most . A real genius may ( and hopefully will ) rise no matter what , but in the long run and on average people with the structured education and degrees are more successful in getting themselves high-skilled jobs .
No doubt you can encounter useful words in novels , but you will encounter them at a much slower rate than with targeted study . If your goal is to learn GRE words quickly , a simple GRE study book would be more efficient . At the least , you should take a practice GRE test and see how you do on the vocab sections . If your vocab needs major improvement , reading novels is probably too slow to be of use for passing the GRE . In the long term , I think reading novels and other texts is a better ( and more fun ) way of learning how to actually understand and use a wide range of vocabulary , but for the short-term goal of improving your GRE score it may not deliver as much benefit .
As someone who hires research assistants in my own department , here are some concerns I would have about such an offer . There are students in my own university who would appreciate the research assistantship . My department has more qualified students to do research than supervisory capacity to give them all that opportunity . I have an aversion to taking on a student who has not made any real commitment to the job and has no accountability . ( I will only take on students who are either getting paid or getting credit for their work with me , partly for this reason . ) I strongly prefer to work with students who will stick around for a while , e.g. undergrads who still have a couple of years left , or M.S. students who may be interested in doing a PhD in my department . Working with research assistants initially takes a lot more time and effort than they save me , and I 'd rather do it with someone who has a chance of sticking around long enough to give me some return on that investment . So for me to consider taking on a research assistant in your situation , you 'd have to assuage some of those concerns . Tell me what skills you already have that will help me and my students advance our current research efforts in the short term . ( This obviously requires that you do your homework and know what my group has been working on recently . ) For example , when you say " I am interested in learning about X , which your students are currently doing , " I hear " This is someone who I or my current students will need to spend a lot of time training to do X - which we do n't really need , because we already have students capable of doing X - and who may or may not stick around long enough for it to pay off . " On the other hand , when you say , " I already know a fair bit about Y , and I think it could advance your research in Z that your students are currently doing , " I hear " This is someone who offers a promising risk - benefit ratio . We wo n't have to spend a lot of time on training , and he/she will bring something useful to the table immediately . " Are your plans to go to graduate school fairly firm ? Do you have a timeline in mind for applying ? If I think that you are committed to the work because you really need it to bolster your graduate school applications , I 'm a little less concerned about you disappearing as soon as something gets difficult , or your day job interferes , etc. . Are you seriously considering applying to grad school at my institution ? If you are , you should definitely say so .
Do n't be shy about advertising . As you and Dave suggest , place it at the end , but you do n't need to be very subtle about it . I 've seen a number of talks where people advertise the fact that they 're on the market , and everyone understands the need to do this . Presumably you 're worried about it seeming desperate , but it is n't .
First , regarding your comment that " if [ the paper ] was so bad it would not have been published " : in my experience , pretty much anything is publishable , it all depends on the journal . Do n't overestimate the field : there are journals out there that publish absolute crap . And that is not only my opinion , e.g. in many cases , <URL> publish articles that no legitimate peer-review journal would accept Now , the initial question is : how bad can it be ? Well , it can be bad . As a researcher ( or wannabe researcher ) , your publications list is like an artist 's portfolio . When you look for a job , apply for a grant or try to recruit new team members , this is what they will judge you on . Now , for a young student ( say undergrad or MSc level ) , one weird paper would not completely freak me out . It would mostly speak to me about the quality of the tutor/advisor/program director : a newbie can sure get a wrong idea at some point , but how come none was there to tell him it was a wrong idea ? On the other hand , if he was told and did not listen , it might speak to his character !
If you can convey your enthusiasm for the overlap of these two somewhat distinct areas , you will be ahead of the game . A PhD candidate is expected to extend the limit of human knowledge , and one of the better ways to do so is to research within the overlap of two ( or more ) disciplines . I would tend to see having more than one area of interest as being an advantage rather than a disadvantage . Of course , as your question implies , a multiplicity of interests can backfire by causing a candidate to appear unfocused . Focus on the overlap , and make your application shine !
Literature on virtual ethnography or netnography is not restricted only to these authors . A cursory Google Scholar <URL> reveals many other authors . Having said this , ~ 50 % of my methodological approach in my work is through grounded theory by using semi-structured interviews . The gold standard for grounded theory is : ... and I would wager that ~ 95 % of papers using grounded theory cite only them in the methods sections of their papers . This does not necessarily make your methods poorer or stronger . You should make sure that you understand the methodological process perfectly and then implement it . Make sure that you do talk about credibility , transferability , dependability and confirmability as well !
While field-specific research experience is always the best kind , I think there is a role for good research experience in any related field . Close-by disciplines that share similar research methods and approaches will carry much more weight than something much further removed . ( For instance , as a chemical engineer , I would n't put much stock in somebody doing sociology or clinical medical research , but somebody who had a background in research in applied mathematics or mechanical engineering would be potentially of interest . ) So , if you 're going to go into an area of economics where your mathematical statistics background will be of benefit , I think that will ( or at least should ) be viewed favorably by an admissions committee . That said , you will want to make sure that your research supervisor understands that you 're applying to economics programs , and tailors her letter of recommendation accordingly . Also , if you have a lot of experience in a different field , you will need to make clear to the admissions committee why it is you want to pursue the new field .
This is acceptable , and fairly common . You cite as usual , and the citation itself would be identical to a standard citation with the exception that the date and page numbers would be replaced by the phrase " in press " . From the <URL> : The AHA suggests the following lexicon . " In Press " : the manuscript is fully copyedited and out of the author 's hands . It is in the final stages of the production process . " Forthcoming " : a completed manuscript has been accepted by a press or journal . " Under contract to ... " : a press and an author have signed a contract for a book in progress , but the final manuscript has not yet been submitted . " Submitted " or " under consideration " : the book or article has been submitted to a press or journal , but there is as yet no contract or agreement to publish .
Option 1 . At least in computer science , it happens often ( but not always ) that someone works on several somewhat disjoint but somewhat related problems . It 's all about the glue and the story ; if you can sell the cohesiveness of the thesis in the abstract and introduction , you 're golden . Be upfront about the fact that there may be some disjoint problems , but try to find and highlight the unifying themes . Here 's a quote my advisor always tells us which has relevance to this : " all wells , when dug deep enough , lead to the same water source . "
Some of this depends a lot on field and laboratory , and I do n't know the customs of physics . As somebody who has dealt with this question in both biology and computer science , however , let me give you some thoughts : Since you are n't aiming for a fellowship , you 're probably going to be supported by a funded project of some sort . That means the PI you 'd be working for promised their funders they would get somebody do a postdoc-sized piece of work on Topic X . Their biggest concern is thus likely to be whether you are the person who can do that . Accordingly , when I 'm thinking about postdocs , the properties I 'm looking for are : Flexibility enough to shift from their Ph.D. topic to the topic of the project , which is pretty much guaranteed to be different . Autonomy , creativity , and maturity enough to tackle their part of the project without much hand-holding . Productivity and responsibility enough to deliver research progress at regular intervals . Formulate your letter accordingly , showing what you have accomplished , that you are capable of formulating a research vision , and that you have interests outside of your research vision . The goal is not to sell yourself , but to be interesting enough that it 's worth the PIs time to talk to you in person , which is where the real decision will be made . In fact , however , you are best served if you can skip the letter entirely and approach potential PIs in person at conferences or other meetings . Get introductions from your advisor if you can . Practice your elevator pitch ( explaining what you 'd put in a letter in just three spoken sentences ) . Speaking as a PI , a whole lot of postdoc jobs ultimately originated by PIs talking at a meeting and one of them saying , " I 've got this great student who 's graduating , and I 'll bet they 'd fit well in your lab ... " or the other saying , " I 've got this grant starting next year and there 's a gap I need to fill ... "
I 'm worried that it would create a record of affiliation with a low-ranked university that would make people see you as " from " that university , and thus be biased against hiring you . Is there any truth to this ? I think it depends when you do it . If it is in between your master 's and PhD , as you somewhat tentatively suggest : well , I know many people in my academic field ( mathematics ) who paused in between degrees to teach at the high school level , most commonly for two years . I have seen absolutely no stigma attached to this . On the contrary , when people have to make lightly educated guesses as to whether a certain candidate will be a good ( read : not problematically bad ) teacher , then holding a teaching job for more than one year pushes that guess in a positive direction . Teaching at a community college is generally viewed as a " higher level job " than teaching at a high school , so I think this should carry over . As a specific example , within fairly recent memory we took a PhD student who had been teaching at a community college . She got her PhD and now has a tenure-track job at a university . So : no stigma here . ( The above answer assumes that you have made it into a PhD program and have kept up your " higher academic skills " as much as other candidates . Whether that is the case is up to you . ) The part of your CV after you get a PhD will be viewed with much more scrutiny , both in terms of chronology and specific jobs held . If you want to get a tenure-track job at a research university , any post-PhD academic employment other than a postdoc or tenure track job at a research university will count against you . ( Sorry . I do n't make the rules -- I 'm just reporting the situation as I see it . ) Even taking an industrial job might not count against you as much as teaching at a community college : in my neck of the academic woods an " industrial job " is an enigma of blankness eliciting neither delight nor scorn -- our eyes just slide right off of it . Let me say though , that while teaching at a community college between degrees is a possible trajectory to an academic career , it does not necessarily make sense to me for someone to plan on that in advance . That is to say : why are you contemplating taking a break of several years from your graduate studies ? If the answer is because you feel a bit burned out or that you want the chance to figure out whether an academic career is for you , I think you need to know that the post-PhD academic job market is one step shy of airtight at the moment . It is not for the faint of heart or the uncertain of commitment . I suggest you think carefully about your long term goals and whether a PhD is really a necessary part of them .
There are no conflicts of interest for the letters . Many of us are at large universities where it is very likely that multiple students will ask for letters for the same fellowship/job . As long as you do n't say that multiple students are each " the best student you 've had in twenty years , " you are n't perjuring yourself . You do n't have to select a favorite . Student sponsorship / mentoring-fellowship is more complex . It 's often best to have the student write to the search committee and ask . Some places are fine with faculty sponsoring multiple students , others are n't . Some will note this explicitly in their instructions to faculty . It 's best to check with the organization . So I do n't think there will a problem with the faculty writing two letters but only serving as sponsor for one student . And the fact they are not the sponsor for the other student wo n't be seen as necessarily negatively prejudicial . Students select their sponsors for a variety of reasons and vice versa .
As I understand it , the point of such reduced teaching loads is to allow for more time for writing papers and research proposals , as well as preparing any " package " required as part of the tenure application . Ideally , such a reduction would be done a little bit preceding the last semester before submitting the tenure application , so that the papers and proposals can be reviewed and published ( or accepted , as the case may be ) before submitting the application .
One word . Yes ! It is absolutely normal . I am a doctoral student in , what is arguably a top 5 CS department/top 5 HCI program in the USA . Although , I had a handful of publications before I started my doctoral program , my first " real " paper ( in a top flight venue ) with my adviser was published more than 2.5 years after I joined the program . I had published a couple of workshop papers/posters in those years with other graduate students but the acceptance rates for them , even in highly ranked conferences , are pretty high so that does n't really account for much . These had nothing to do with my dissertation but were just some side projects that we did . Most of my colleagues and friends/acquaintances in similar programs in similar universities were in similar situations in that time . It takes time to read literature , come up with a compelling and important research question , design a study/prototype/system / algorithm , write the paper and most importantly , get it published . Do not be disheartened . The quality of papers matter , not the quantity when it comes to being evaluated by search committees .
It 's quite common to submit proposals to multiple funding agencies at the same time . Most grant applications ask you if you are submitting the proposal to multiple funding agencies . You should note this in your application . If both agencies are interested in funding your proposal then they 'll coordinate awards so that you do n't get funded twice .
Well , clearly , it depends on many factors ( my answer is probably strongly influenced by the Computer Science field ) . If you want to apply for a non-research industry position , then clearly , the postdoc might not appear as a strong point , unless you can travel , attend conferences , manage a budget , develop an application/software/experiment , apply for patents , etc , in general any transversal skill that you can justify . But if the postdoc is just sitting in an office writing theoretical papers for a couple of years , then it 's probably not the best choice . If you want to apply for a research industry position , then a postdoc can be a good point , although of course , the closer you can be connected to industry , the better it will be . Ideally , you could do a postdoc in industry ( in CS , IBM , Microsoft , Intel , HP , and many others offer this possibility ) .
end question
start question
How can I create a DOI for a paper that was uploaded to arXiv but not published somewhere else ?
Ultimately , no , you ca n't . There 's no infrastructure to say " I want to get a single DOI for XYZ arbitrary url " . DOIs for most scholarly publications are issued through CrossRef . CrossRef do not assign DOIs directly , but delegate this to members or their agents . Members , who are usually publishers , pay a fee to the central consortium , and agree to issue DOIs based on a <URL> . As you can see from these rules , the general sense of membership is " organisations issuing DOIs for stuff they control " . While there is n't an explicit prohibition against assigning DOIs to third-party material ( which surprised me ! ) , point 4 comes pretty close : Members have an obligation to maintain the metadata and URLs associated with all registered DOIs . There is also a general prohibition of ' duplicative ' works including preprints : Crossref only registers DOIs for Definitive Works ( or Versions of Record , if not formally published ) but not for Duplicative Works , as defined in the Crossref Glossary . This means that only original scholarly material , for which there is no actual DOI at the time of submission , and no expected duplication in future , is admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Crossref does not permit multiple DOIs to be assigned to certain closely related versions of a work , and hence does not support assignment of DOIs to Pre-prints or Post-prints of Definitive Works or to the Personal Version or a Self-archived Copy of a Definitive Work . For the same reasons , materials for which DOI duplication can be reasonably anticipated , such as an Authors Original Draft of a work being prepared for publication , are not admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Putting those together , it seems likely that CrossRef 's terms would prevent a member agreeing to issue a DOI for a ( potentially duplicative ) work hosted somewhere out of their control . So , could you get a DOI from someone else , outside of CrossRef ? Probably not . DOIs are only issued through a number of central registration authorities ( eg CrossRef , DataCite ) . These have <URL> areas of activity ( eg DataCite wo n't issue DOIs for publications ) and , to the best of my knowledge , none offer a " DOI for an arbitrary URL " service .
If you have submitted manuscripts to peer-reviewed outlets , you can say so . If you have anything under second-round review , be sure to say so because that 's all the better . If you have n't submitted manuscripts , you could do so . One of my peer-reviewed publications was originally a paper I wrote for a Ph.D. seminar . I blew the dust off , firmed it up and made it stronger , and I submitted it . It was a nice little paper . My point is that you have doubtless done work that you could turn into a submission with X weeks of work . Lots of people list their current research projects under a title such as " Current Research . " Beware that search committees know all the tricks . You 're not going to fool anyone . But , I 'm sure your goal is not to " fool " anyone at all . You just want to put your best foot forward , and there 's nothing wrong with that .
As others have said , not every ( old ) article has a DOI or a URL . However , in mathematics every article since 1940 has an MR number which uniquely identifies it . So go to <URL> and look up this article . I just did , it has MR number MR0844292 . The bibliographical information on mathscinet ( like the transliteration of the author 's name ) would also be considered the " canonical information " .
I would use some of the following : submitted under review submitted to ... and do not stress that there is already a revision going on . Even revised papers may get rejected , so being in revision is no guarantee to get the paper published . I also would not state the journal to which the paper is submitted to because I do not see how this says anything about the quality of the paper . If you think , that the paper is good and interesting for whoever reads the CV , make it available as a preprint and provide a link . I myself have a section " Preprints " in my CV where I list submitted but not published papers with links to the arXiv and add the line " submitted , month , year " .
Not at all . You are not committed to doing your PhD with the same advisor . Even if you did want to work with the same advisor , he/she should encourage that you talk to others to hear out their ideas . I highly doubt your advisor would be offended to hear that you were interested in speaking to other professors about their research interests . After all , a PhD is a long road , and you need to be really happy with your advisor , and your work , to survive it . In fact , I think it looks positive , even to your advisor , knowing that you have multiple options . I once had a job interview where , upon disclosing that I was also interviewing at other places , that " they would be worried if I was n't " .
Cite the journal name that was used at the time of publication . For example , the British Medical Journal officially changed title to BMJ in 1988 . Cite articles from 1987 and earlier as Br Med J , not BMJ . ( Source : <URL> . )
In favour of unrestricted dissemination After thinking about the answers provided so far and the discussion in comments , it seems to me that the point of view favouring dissemination of research results unrestricted by the double-blind peer-review process needs a stronger case . I believe that the answer can be derived from higher-level , rather philosophical , principles . ... Or is it only " good practice " not to do so [ to present results under review ] ? What is the purpose of developing and disseminating research results ? I am an idealist in these things and argue , that it is first and foremost the advancement of human knowledge and ultimately improvement of the conditions of the human society , as well as the world around us -- regardless of what exactly " improvement " means , I have in mind something like a wider social consensus that the change has a positive vector . Given this stance , unless there are other considerations in the game , there is no reason which could obstruct our advancement of human knowledge , which ultimately rests on dissemination of quality results to the wider public . Of course , we should be careful and act in a good faith so as to be cautious about validity , significance and originality of our results . Peer-review process is only an auxiliary mechanism helping us to filter out ideas/results in violation of these principles , i.e. , helps us to recognize and fix our own misjudgements and mistakes , as well as ( in the worse case ) dissemination of results not advancing knowledge of humankind , but produced for other primary purposes . After all , the ultimate metrics for the results of scientific research is not the outcome of the peer-review process , but rather the long-term impact on the society and the world around us . That is , whether other people will learn something from the results and whether it eventually helps them to build something beneficial to the society . Unfortunately , thanks to the recent proliferation of the publish-or-perish attitude and its intertwining with the need to advance human knowledge , as well as interactions of these two conflicting forces , gradually peer-review becomes primarily a mechanism to filter bad-faith products - think plagiarism , results falsification and all sorts of other scientific misconduct . Yet , I maintain , the process of filtering should not gain a higher importance than the objective of our pursuit itself . To conclude , if executed with caution , restrictions imposed by double-blind review process should not restrict our ability to disseminate our results .
I 've reviewed more than 50 papers , and my preparation to review them has varied widely . At least a few of them have drawn heavily on papers I 've written . Generally , these are extending my results . Typically , I ask myself : What does this paper add ? Is it something I would have thought of easily or not ? If yes , why did n't I include it in my paper ? In contrast , I 've also reviewed some papers that I was not well prepared for . They were in my general field , but in a subarea that I had n't worked in . These papers took a lot more work . ( Up to 10x as long for me to review as a paper in an area where I 'm very familiar . ) For papers in an area that 's new to me , I often have to look up ( and skim ) at least a few of the references from the introduction to judge whether the paper is original . Originality has at least two very different levels . The easier one to achieve is : ( 1 ) this result is new , and does n't follow simply from anything previous . The much harder one is , ( 2 ) this technique is fundamentally new and produces interesting results . If the results are interesting , most journals are happy to publish articles of type ( 1 ) . Articles of type ( 2 ) are much rarer , and can potentially open entire new fields . tl ; dnr : Preparation : you need to either know the subarea well or be willing to read a lot to learn about it . Originality : What papers does it draw on ? How likely is it that a reader of those would be able to write this paper ? Answering this question may require you to read a lot of background .
I ended up contacting the Academic Services / Student Requests Information Team by email . They said immediately they would provide a document , and they delivered ; Pretty much professional and very attentive people . They found my records from 20 years ago , but not my grades . Fortunately my dissertation grade is not so important , as I have it in another set of documents . I already have the document in electronic form , and they also sent a paper copy .
Small errors that do not affect the results or conclusions of the paper are normally handled through publication of a correction ( or erratum ) . This is handled by the journal editor , who will be in contact with the authors for confirmation that they agree as to it being an error , and provide for the exact correction to be published . The journal that published paper should have a policy on corrections , check it out ! Physical Review Letters 's editorial policies and practices state , for example : Errata . -- The Errata section contains notices regarding errors or omissions in papers previously published . Besides the standard Erratum , several special categories of documents may appear in this section . In the online journal , each of these documents involve bidirectional links between the original article and the document in the Errata section . The category of the corrective document is indicated in its title and in the link from the original article . The standard Erratum is a statement by the authors of the original paper that briefly describes the correction ( s ) and , where appropriate , any effects on the conclusions of the paper . Thus , what you should do is : Make double sure it is actually an error . Then ask someone else to double check it again . Preferably someone more senior , i.e. with some experience of academic publication . Write to the corresponding author , pointing out the error . Be nice , and make real sure not to assume to worst . You say " this is a pretty big mistake and suggests they have n't actually read the paper they referenced " : depending on context , it could actually be something minor like a copy-paste mistake ( pasting the wrong reference , when they meant another paper ) If you do not obtain a response , or they respond but do n't intend to correct the error , then consider contacting the editor . I can understand why , as an undergrad , you would consider contacting the editor directly without writing to the authors first . However , as long as you remain professional in your correspondence with them , I think it 's best to contact the authors first . It 's more polite , and they may actually be able to provide you with some explanation you have n't thought of . Contacting the editor before the authors is somewhat overdoing it ...
Usually depositing a paper in arXiv prior to journal submission does count as a preprint . Wikipedia explicitly says so ... here 's the wiki link : <URL> . You can check out this list of journals with preprint policy : <URL> If you posted your paper in arXiv before submitting to the journal , do inform the journal ( include the link to your paper in arXiv ) . From your post , it seems that your journal does not have such a tight preprint policy .
Professionally , they should understand , if explained to them in a polite and respectful way . After all it is your life , and they need to respect your decision . Yes , it is disappointing , but it should not burn bridges - good people are not easy to find and they should be happy to keep in touch ; who knows what the future brings . However , if they were so disappointed that they would be indeed offended by your decision , then it is likely that there are other problems lying in wait for you at that group , anyway .
From an ethical point of view , you must cite your original source appropriately . Clearly indicate when you are using ideas , words , or figures from another work by citing the source when you use something verbatim ( typically by putting it in quotation marks or blockquotes ) As long as you attribute your sources properly , there is n't really an ethical problem with excessive use of a source . From a legal perspective , it can be trickier . In summary , Copying large amounts of text verbatim : may violate copyright Copying small amounts of text verbatim , for academic purposes : typically allowed under <URL> , though like everything legal , this varies by jurisdiction Paraphrasing text : does not violate copyright . The intellectual content of a paper is not subject to copyright ( as opposed to the words used to present it , which are ) . Reusing figures : may violate copyright . Check the policy of the source 's publisher . From a " best practices " standpoint , work that involves an excessive amount of paraphrasing is often lacking original intellectual content . Even if your work is expository , you 're supposed to be adding some value for the reader , not just stating the content of the original source in other words . So be careful of this , too :)
If I have an original idea to propose a new model , what should I do then : A patent or good rank ISI paper ? It depends on your objectives . If you want to make money from your model : Get a patent . If you want to earn academic reputation : Publish a paper . In many cases , it 's actually possible to do both - assuming your " model " can be patented at all . However , note that patent fees can be quite expensive , and it is usually only worth paying if you really aim to make money from it . The academic reputation gain from a patent is mostly marginal .
It is n't much clear as to why Mr. K would insist you to work with Ms. E . It might be either of the following It might most probably of Ms. E 's suggestion/influence . They might be on the same team ( @virmaior 's point ) Mr. K has just got another student he prefers over you . To figure out why and how to react bases on why , @demitau 's suggestion would be most appropriate ; speaking openly with Mr. K should provide a solution . If the answer to the last question is what you require ( how to let Ms. E know I 'd rather work with Mr. K ? ) then the most diplomatic approach is to say something like this : state that you feel much honoured to work with her . But it seems you current research interest are much inclined to that of Mr. K. Hence the decision .
If the research was original and academic , then I would say keep it in there if it 's relevant to the role that you see yourself working in . If it was a team effort , make sure you cite it as such . Since it was n't officially published , I 'd suggest linking to it online ( and hosting it somewhere if it is n't already hosted by your academic institution ) . Of course , I 'm not really authoritative on this type of thing , but if I were evaluating prospective employees , I 'd love to be able to see relevant examples of their work even if they were n't formally published .
My experience from European universities is that even there , the grades should not be posted by name , but instead by a student ID number . However , in most cases , the university requires the public posting of the grades in such a manner ( for exactly the reasons you suggest -- to allow for petitioning of changes in grade ) . Moreover , because of the large number of students who may be taking a course , it can be highly impractical for the teaching staff to respond to individual requests for reporting grades by email . ( Imagine having to send out 1800 emails for a single course ! ) Consequently , while you might ask for anonymizing of the grade reports by student ID instead of name , I think it would be unfair to ask the professors to report individual grades by email , unless you have an exceptional and demonstrated need for such an email ( for instance , you are unable to get your grade because of extended absence without Internet access ) .
As editor I would not accept this in a publication . If it is published it should be referenced . Yes , it bumps the references for the authors and yes , bad science may attract a fair amount of citations for all the right ? / wrong ? reasons . But , it is not up to the authors to decide how referencing should be made , journals have guidelines that should be followed . Having the citation properly referenced makes it easier for others to find the article and see it for themselves . Furthermore , from another point of view the statement that something is " unscientific " is not appropriate either . It is an opinion . The cited paper can be unscientific but the academic way to show this is not to just say it but to prove it . Your quote is a specific case , of which I know nothing , so the reply concerns the general case but I would react if I saw something like that in a paper I edit and I would ask the authors to stick to facts . One last point is that if a paper is really bad , then it should be considered for retraction . That is how scientifically extremely poor , bordering on dangerous , papers are handled .
Yes , use Web of Science ( Thomson Reuter 's ) database called Cited Reference Searching . You can download a list of citations , which can be exported as * . csv . Here is a <URL> showing some of the basic functionalities .
Yes . It is certainly okay . Indeed , general practice when writing a PhD thesis is to produce a number of publications that add up to the thesis , whether directly ( using staples ) or by a good deal of massage . Some published material may be omitted and some additional material may be included . There 's no reason why this should n't apply to a Master 's thesis , too . It is a good idea to cite the paper in the thesis ( if the paper has been accepted for publication ) and the thesis in the paper , if possible .
end question
start question
Do reviewers of research proposals for a fellowship read the whole application , or only the scientific part ?
From my experience , reviewers get the whole proposal and also read the whole proposal . Reviewers try to get a complete picture of the applicant and skim the proposal for all relevant information in this regard . This means , that probably no reviewer will read every word of the proposal , but potentially , every word will be read by some reviewer . The reviewers base their review on the whole picture they get , but usually their feedback is only for the part for which they are specialists ( e.g. the scientific strength of the applicant and so on ... ) .
Twenty years ago it was not at all uncommon at international conferences in physics and electrical engineering to attend at " read " presentations , especially from old researchers from Asian countries who were not used to speak English . How was it ? Boring , utterly boring , and audiences drifted away . Please do n't do or suggest it : if you feel uncomfortable speaking , rehearse , rehearse , rehearse .
Although far from perfect , <URL> is one citation-based indicator often used to quantify how quickly a field or journal is moving . It basically looks at how long a paper takes to get half of all its citations . So for example , a fast moving field might have a citation half-life of 4 years , whereas a slower moving field might have a citation half-life of over 10 years . In the Journal Citation Reports you can see these values for each journal . Of course , there is the question of what exactly this means . For example , I believe fields like statistics and mathematics have much longer citation half lives , perhaps because seminal articles remain important . Understanding citation half-life is also important when you want to compare impact factors for journals across fields , or compare citation counts and h-indexes across scholars .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
I am an Elsevier editor . When I am looking for reviewers , I try the following : People who I know personally who are doing work relevant to the paper , if I have n't asked them to review another too recently . Occasionally they disagree about its relevance : for example , I asked a colleague who wrote a paper on thermodynamics of coastal ocean sediments to review a paper on thermodynamics of lake sediments . I thought there could n't be a better match , but he declined because he thought it was too far from his expertise . People who come up on a Scopus search as having recently published several papers on similar topics . There 's a tool built into the editing software to help find them . I usually only check the titles and journals of publication of the listed papers by matched authors to see whether they are in fact a good match , and try to make sure they are first author of the relevant papers . The author 's suggestions . Sometimes these are way off base -- last time I declined a review request that was well outside my field , the editor commented that I had been the author 's suggestion ( and it was an author I 'd never heard of ) . Keyword matches in my journal 's reviewer database . I use these only if it is n't a highly specialised paper so the matches to fairly generic keywords are likely to be relevant . Suggestions made by other potential reviewers who have declined review invitations . These can be very helpful . If I am desperate , I will ask people whose work is relevant to only one aspect of the paper and find other reviewers for other aspects to fill the gaps . For example , I might ask a marine chemist to review a specialised marine biochemistry modelling paper , but also ask a marine modeller to review the modelling aspects . Your supervisor might have come up in a search if he has co-authored papers with you on the subject . He might also be perfectly well qualified to review it , but think you are even better qualified . If you are a PhD student and he is qualified to supervise you , then I 'd suggest he is certainly qualified to review a paper on your topic . If you are a postdoc or higher , this may not be the case .
Edited for clarity , since the question in the title is somewhat opposite to that in the body : do not list all your references on your CV . Only the ones who have written or will write to that particular potential employer . To list everyone might give several unfortunate impressions . First , that the potential employer can contact any one of those references directly . Second , if the prospective employer has received letters from some , but not all , they may think something 's wrong ... and one form of this is to consider your application " incomplete " , but not inform you , and you miss the opportunity .
No , you do n't have to read the whole paper . If you think you do , ask yourself this : do you also have to read all papers cited in the paper ? For example , I recently needed to know a certain function of n . Some computer experimentation suggested that it might be 3 * 2 ^ n , let 's say . Then I found a paper published in a reputable journal that claimed to prove exactly that . As the reasons why it was 3 * 2 ^ n were probably rather unrelated to what I was trying to do , I cited them but did not check their proof . On balance , I think that making every author read every paper they ever cite would slow down the progress of science . Caveat : this may be field-dependent . For instance , if the paper can be thought of as consisting of just one long definition , then yes , one should read the whole thing .
There is a third way : Be pedantic about your vocabulary in the right way to make your paper more readable . Using established , clear , and consistent vocabulary and defining it when necessary is the best way to ensure that you are not misunderstood . The main advantage of " simple and easy words " is that they do not need to be explained to the reader , but this also entails that you rely on the reader interpreting these words the same way as you do , which may be not given surprisingly often . Defined vocabulary does not have this disadvantage . Moreover , you need to at least need to mention the established , " pedantic " vocabulary for context and to avoid the impression of reinventing the wheel . By consistently sticking to it , you avoid switching between different terms for the same thing , which usually impedes intelligibility . However , you should also bear in mind that readers unfamiliar with this vocabulary may want to read your paper . For these readers , define the more uncommon words and cite papers explaining the basic underlying concepts . Papers are not difficult to read because they contain new words , but because these words are not properly explained or because the reader does not understand the concepts represented by them . For example if you write a paper on theoretical particle physics , readers will have to understand some elementary aspects of quantum theory to follow your thoughts . Using vocabulary that can only appeal to readers without this basic understanding of quantum theory is pointless and only raises false expectations . Finally , if you get to introduce new concepts , you can try to choose words for them appeal to intuition , but this does not mean that you are relieved from the burden of explaining these words .
The vast majority not a cent , of whatever currency ( see <URL> for exceptions ) . Peer reviewers are asked to volunteer , and they volunteer because they know that someone else would have to review their papers too ( as Dilworth points out in a comment there can be other motivations too ) . Said differently , peer reviewing is a mutual exchange , necessary for science to work ( though the peer review system has been sometimes criticized ) .
It 's an old adage that " You do n't truly understand something unless you can explain it completely to someone else " . Writing notes effectively forces you to explain the topic to yourself . Oftentimes , when writing over notes from a class or from what you 've read , the simple process of re-explaining it to yourself will clarify points that may have been confusing earlier . For this purpose , I try not to write notes as I 'm reading , but rather I 'll read a section and them summarize that in my notes . Having read the full picture , I can then ensure that my understanding of the topic is more complete , and my notes should reflect that . On a different note entirely , repetition enhances retention , and writing notes is at the very least doubles the number of times you 'll see it ( once in the book , and once as you write it ) , which should help your remember it that much better .
Send an email to the conference program chair right away and ask . The better conferences will be honest with you , either way . The answer could be no revision , but then you could move on . These mistakes happen .
It depends . What does your acknowledgement say when you had submitted your application ? If you were told something like " you will be informed your result by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that regard by that period , then you can write an e-mail to inquire the status of your application . If you were told something like " only successful candidates will be informed by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that matter , then you can write an e-mail to your contact person to know the status . In any case , you can write email politely to know about your application status if you think it is already too late . There is no harm to inquiring application status .
I believe that this sort of disclosure can be ethical , especially to a neutral third party , and when only discussing papers that have already been accepted and/or published elsewhere . ( Papers still in the process somewhere else might be different . ) . Anonymity of referees is n't a deep ethical good in its own right - it has very clear and specific reasons , and this does n't seem like a relevant violation . Consider the reasons why referees are often given anonymity : 1 ) to allow referees to give honest feedback without fear of ( real or imagined ) retaliation , 2 ) to encourage authors to engage with the referee 's arguments , not their personality or status , 3 ) to avoid the appearance/possibility of quid pro quo reviews , and 4 ) to ensure that broader perceptions of the article are not influenced by knowledge of its referees . None of these problems would occur by giving the names of articles to a ( I 'm going to assume ) completely uninterested immigration clerk . If you want to be very conscientious , google your contact to make sure they are n't doing immigration processing to make ends meet while an adjunct professor :)
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
I would say several points related to the candidates such as How much in average do candidates publish per year ? Where do they publish ? What conferences they presented their papers in ? What are the impact factors for journals they publish in ? What new research questions or directions do they have ? How much citations did they received ? With whom in the group they can collaborate ? What funds do they have or can bring ? What experience in writing proposals do they have ? What are some similar proposals that received funds ? Where their research is going in the next 5-10 years ? What industry or academic experience do they have ? What skills do they have ? Can they enhance research group diversity ? Can they teach , present and discuss well ?
I 'm not entirely sure about what kind of publications you are talking about when you say ' published by vendors ' ( white papers , brochures , user manuals ? ) . But if you are referring to scientific literature , my answer is : by all means . I do n't se why you would refrain yourself from commenting the possible limitations or drawbacks of published methods . Just stay modest and consider the possibility that these publications came out a while ago and that the general knowledge in the field improved since then . Being critical , if done properly ( give objective reasons ) , is certainly something to be encouraged at the Master 's level , and yes the appropriate section for this is the " State of the art " section .
You have a compilation to scientific research referencing websites and networks , and some links to further information , <URL> ( post in spanish language , with automatic transation available ) .
Being editor of a journal where authors can provide preferred and non-preferred reviewers , I can provide some " inside " thoughts on the subject based on what has happened in " my " journal . Note that it is possible to suggest names for review but also provide names which are not preferred . The latter can be because of a scientific disagreement , personal issues or whatever . Such suggestions appear but not often and we usually follow the suggestions ( not that we have to ! ) . When it comes to the preferred or suggested reviewers , I have been tempted to use such reviewers on occasion when it has been hard to identify reviewers directly . Sometimes because the topic is local and where it would make sense to have local input . In these cases , I can not remember a single reasonable review that has come out of such reviewers . This can be for several reasons but most often the review is a close colleague who might have an incentive to help the author . In some cases the preferred names have been very senior scientists who , I am afraid , has lost touch with the subject and provide poor and in some cases almost non-existent reviews . Out of all immediate " Accept " review recommendations I get , the vast majority have come from these reviewers . So , I not longer trust these names and avoid them at all costs unless I personally know or know of the reviewer and his or her good reputation . In addition to what I just describe , I also must state that it is often the weakest manuscripts that have listed several suggestions . This can be identified by the disparate review results , sometimes one accept ( by the suggested reviewer ) and one reject . Now , in principle , there is nothing wrong with suggesting reviewers , I have done so myself when being requested . I have then as a principle gone for established and well renowned names in the community . The problem lies in suggesting names for a purpose other than to get a fair and objective review . It is clear that the system can and is abused and since I became Editor-in-Chief , I have come to rely less and less on these suggestions and now mostly look upon them with suspicion and make selections from my own understanding of the field and investigations into the subject literature . The best suggestion , I can provide is to not avoid mentioning names but pick names that in your opinion can provide good constructive critique on your work ( and not just favorable ) . A note on why you have selected names as preferred or non-preferred would greatly help as well since it puts your choice in a perspective .
I really do n't get this . This is a little like the <URL> or the <URL> feeling awkward about asking to view the movies they are going to rate . If you are developing an algorithm for detecting pornography , why would it be awkward to request funding to acquire test resources ? This is an entirely legitimate application , that has huge potential , both economically and socially ( note : use of bold inspired by OP ) . There are many researchers all over the world working in similar fields . Clearly , at some point you will need to discuss your work with your PI , and presumably , they are already aware of the work you have been doing in the previous 6/9/18 months , and perhaps already requires justification against existing research funding . Whatever the case , your work will need to be approved by , and comply rigidly with , your institution 's ethics committee . There are also a number of steps you could consider before committing to viewing full-length extreme hardcore films . In making some suggestions , I 'm going to make a few assumptions : 1 Your definition of a pornographic movie is one classified as " mainly concerned with sex " , and involves extreme nudity and acts of sexual behaviour . Your algorithm looks at exposed and interacting body content in some way , and does not work on quality of script and acting ( otherwise daytime soapies will bring up many false positives ) Your algorithm looks at small fragments of movie clips , and not the entire 60/70/90 minutes worth , or however long these movies go for . Your PI knows what you 've been spending your previous doing , which is most likely already associated with existing research funding . So , some suggestions Acquire a number of movie trailers ; these are usually freely available for all types of movies , and typically run for about a minute . Contact the various movie studios directly if you need to . Speak to your national Film and Television archive body . They are likely to have a number of suitable media to preliminary early test procedures on . <URL> <URL> <URL> . Speak to other researchers in this field . There might be a good standard set of images/movies that can be used to determine baseline effectiveness . Go to your local friendly adult shop and check out the " specials " bin . Finally , and not the best approach to take , look at the internet . I 'm guessing if you typed in the right combination of words , you 'd get unlimited supply of short , copyright-free videos , to use both as a test group and control group . But I stress , this needs to be done in strict accordance with your institutions policies for network and computing use , and therefore should be approved by your PI and ethics committee . However , whatever approach you take , the summary is : talk to your PI .
It 's quite common to submit proposals to multiple funding agencies at the same time . Most grant applications ask you if you are submitting the proposal to multiple funding agencies . You should note this in your application . If both agencies are interested in funding your proposal then they 'll coordinate awards so that you do n't get funded twice .
end question
start question
Why do some reviewers mention their decision explicitly ?
Typically I include an explicit recommendation in the report to be shared with the authors when I have a strong opinion , but not necessarily otherwise . In the former case , the editor can still decide either way ( referees make recommendations , not decisions ) , but if they disagree with me at least the authors will know for sure what the referee thought . what is the point of adding the decision statement while the overall evaluation ( i.e. on EasyChair system ) explicitly says it ? is it just the reviewer habit ? It may be habit , and it may reflect uncertainty about what information from the web form will be available to the authors .
You will not be paid in money . You might be paid in reputation . This depends on how the conference handles its review process and you can ask your supervisor about it . If the conference organizers learn about your reviewing ( i.e. if " being appointed as a sub-reviewer " is more than your supervisor forwarding you the manuscript and asking you to write the review that he or she will then send back to the conference organizers ) , that may lead to a slight rise in your reputation among those organizers . Results could be that you will at first be asked to review more papers , but on the long run , this might lead to you being considered for e.g. co-organizing a workshop ( if one of the organizers remembers you usually provided valid input in a particular field etc. ) . Some conferences publish their list of reviewers . This has basically the same effect as above , however with a much wider scope , as the fact that you contributed will be publicly visible . And of course , you will gain some experience in reviewing and more awareness of issues in authoring scientific texts . Also , you might get some insight into the work of researchers that you may not otherwise have found . Sometimes , this includes becoming aware of research that you can use for your own publications ( either as related work or as an inspiration in the first place ) , as seems to have happened e.g. <URL> .
It 's not a myth . There are/have been some journals that pay peer reviewers . For example : The <URL> used to pay $ 5 per review , until some reviewers complained that " if that was the price that this eminent journal placed on their opinion , the New England Journal of Medicine should seek referees elsewhere " The <URL> reportedly pays for peer review " sometimes " Reviewers for journals published by the <URL> earn <URL> for each " timely " review . <URL> ( zbMATH ) pays 2.56 EUR per review , although this is for post-publication reviews that are then published . The <URL> offers " a review model in which selected peer reviewers may be paid to deliver high-quality and speedy peer-review reports " ( if authors pay an extra fee for the fast-track option ) The <URL> has offered an honorarium of $ 100 for each " timely " review <URL> pays its peer reviewers an honorarium of unspecified amount , supposedly " to motivate rigorous peer review " The <URL> ( which is on <URL> of allegedly predatory open-access journals and publishers ) pays reviewers for its journals $ 60 - $ 100 per review Whether the reviewer being paid , has more obligations to provide thorough in depth review is true or not is entirely uncertain , though .
You can certainly list them as manuscripts . I 'm not sure what you are asking exactly : it would be a poor idea to list them as " Rejected from Prestigious conference A " , or even " Submitted to Prestigious conference A " if Prestigious conference A has already made its decisions , and it is clear from the non-appearance of your paper that it was rejected .
Most professors are required by their departments to do some sort of service to the university and department . It 's a duty of their job , often assigned by their department chair , and may be required as part of their tenure case . Someone who is actually a professor may be able to say more . Paper reviewing , and the peer review system as a whole , is a cooperative system . Profs need peer-reviewed publications to get tenure , so someone has to do the reviewing . Nobody gets explicit points or credit for reviewing , but if everyone tried to free-ride , then no papers would get reviewed , and the system would collapse . As a non-professor , I do n't do as much reviewing ( dozens of papers a year ) as my professorial colleagues ( hundreds per year , often , depending on field ) , but every time I submit an article to a journal , I 'm asked to do a review by the editor , which helps keep me involved in reviewing . I suspect that people also do n't want to develop reputations as free riders , so when asked to review , within reason , they do it . In addition , sitting on a program committee for a conference involves a lot of reviewing , and it can be a great way to meet and network more closely with more senior or more junior researchers depending on your own level , both of which have their advantages . Doing both kinds of reviewing and doing it well can help one build a reputation as someone who supports the system . Besides the general benefits of a good reputation , it may lead to program committee chair positions , other conference organizing positions , and journal editorships . In the end , having a bad reputation for not reviewing and not doing other kinds of service could seriously affect one 's tenure case or future job prospects .
It does n't matter if the material is promotional or not . It does n't matter if the material is freely available or not . What matters is copyright . You have to ask if you want to use copyrighted material . On a different note , the company may really be unhappy if you use a screenshot which might be of bad quality ( at least it 's a pixel image ) instead of a high quality , tailor made ( possibly vector graphics ) image for that purpose .
Doing a little bit of poking around , I found most articles on BlackHat 2015 not listed in Google Scholar , and all of the articles that I did find listed were cited by other papers . It seems to me then likely that this is among the " grey area " sites that Google Scholar is not indexing ( BlackHat 's status as an academic conference is murky ) , and thus that any material that you find is being added to the Google Scholar index through other routes .
Well , if you agreed they would not need to fear that you demand them to remove your photo and name and that you could sue them . Also , you could write " on the editorial board of ... " in your CV and at some places in the world this would enable you to reduce teaching or get a raise . I think that 's basically it . If this would be true , there would be some people that accept such an invitation . Not sure if this is the case , but does not seem impossible .
There is no magic when it comes to asking for presentations . And there is nothing wrong with being the person who asks people for their powerpoint slides ( at least you show that are interested and it may result in them being cited ; and it shows that they got their job done - though a presentation they interested others in their idea ) . If they do n't reply ( or do n't sent it ) , it is usually of one of the following reasons : they are busy and missed your mail , it would talk their time to find the presentation and send it ( it may be big so it is not just sending an e-mail ) , they would prefer not to make it public as : it is not polished enough for anything but a presentation , it may contain things that they would prefer not to share publicly ( e.g. plots form other papers , preliminary data which may later proven to be wrong or incomplete , pictures or video they do n't have right to share further , etc ) . If they do n't want to share it - they have right to it . However , usually they have nothing against ( and actually are happy to do so ) as long as you make it quick and easy for them . So it is a good idea to ask for slides just after their talk - they may have it on their computer ( so you can copy it to your stick ) or on a stick ( o you can copy it to your computer ) or send it right away . Also : send you e-mail at most a week after the presentation , be short and concise ( what exactly you want , what do you want with do with it ) , if there is no response try writing the same e-mail a week later .
First and foremost , ask the editor . Sometimes space limits are hard , and sometimes they are soft , and you often ca n't tell the real story just by reading the journal 's stated guidelines . If the limits are soft , you do n't really have a problem . Nevertheless , do n't get verbose : the reviewer probable did n't just say " Give more introductory material , " they probably pointed at specific types of shortcomings in your current material . Focused improvement of material may not actually take much length at all . If the limits are hard , then begin by writing as though the limits were soft . I always find it best to start by writing the paper they way you want to write it , and then figuring out how best to reduce . If you start by worrying too much about length , then you are likely to cut the wrong parts , because you ca n't see the structure of the whole while you are writing . Once you 've got a paper that 's too long , then <URL> .
If it 's a blind process , you 're not meant to find out . As various people have pointed out in the comments already , discussing your review with them is therefore a big no . One of the main principles of reviewing by several people is that you get independent opinions , so that if a particular ( maybe well-known and well-respected ) person does n't like the research , they ca n't just make it disappear by convincing everybody else that it 's bad . For some conferences ( and maybe journals ? ) , you are able to discuss your review with the other reviewers after the initial submission . But in this case the facilities for doing this are provided by the submission system . There are two important differences to the situtation you 've described though . First , your initial review will not be influenced by the discussion and second , there is a record of the conversations and changes made .
If there 's a specific reason , such as a deadline at another school , that it would be helpful to know your status , then I think its very reasonable to send a message to the graduate director at a program you 're considering . Asking just because you 're curious is generally discouraged , but if you have new information , then its reasonable to ask for an update .
Most graduate schools in the U.S. follow a policy that accepted candidates are not required to make a decision until a set date agreed upon by the schools ( April 15th , I believe ) . This means you can ( and should ) take as much time to make your decision as you need . It sounds like you do need to make your decision earlier than that deadline ( but it might be worth finding out if the other schools do follow that policy and simply asked you to make a decision earlier ) , so contacting the other schools is probably a good idea . Remember , however , you are making a decision that will at the very least directly affect the next four to six years of your life , who you work and collaborate with , future contacts , where you live , and what your future employment prospects are ! So , I 'll reiterate : take the time you need , and get as much information as you can if you are up against a hard deadline .
Because they are graded easily and fast , and there is no room for subjectivity . The answer to question 1 is option b ) . If you marked b ) , you get points , if you did n't , you are wrong . The grader does n't even need to know what the question is about , just that the right answer is b ) . Also , there is no middle ground , no partial credit , and no subjectivity involved . Of course , there are a whole lot of problems with this system : poorly phrased questions , the student does n't show the process , just the final result ...
If you make enough use of them , it 's cheaper and more efficient to use in-house services . That 's why most universities will also have a mechanical workshop , to make one-off items mostly for the physics and engineering departments . Everything is streamlined : the glassblower is an employee , not a business owner . He can spend more of his time on his products , thus his services are cheaper . The University will also make some profit from selling their services . It makes things easier for the academic staff , and there 's less bother with accounts or purchase orders . For routine jobs ( if these things are n't outsourced ) , just visit the workshop and ask for another 1L boiling flask . The academic staff know that he will always do a good job : a low turn-over rate means the glassblower ( s ) develop a strong rapport with their frequent customers , and have a good understanding of their needs . If more jobs are outsourced , this personal touch can be easily lost . Of course , it <URL> that ordinary items are usually outsourced -- a big factory is more cost effective . It 's for the one-off custom items that it still makes a lot of sense to keep things in-house .
DOI , by itself , certainly does not add " authenticity " . The Digital Object Identifier is , by <URL> , meant to be a method of producing and providing a persistent actionable identifier to entities . To put it in plain English : the DOI is an effort to prevent <URL> , and importantly , does so by not only providing a registry of the numbered items , but also providing a mechanism for accessing/retrieving those items . <URL> also explains pretty well what it is for . Notice that DOIs can be had for many more than just journal articles . In science , a growing practice is to use DOI <URL> . As to why a publisher may decide not to participate in the DOI scheme : for starters , it <URL> . This may have contributed to the correlation that sham publishers typically do not make use of the DOI service .
There are several reasons in the US . Most faculty are paid for 9 months of the year not 12 . They may choose to spread out their pay into 12 payments a year , but their base salary is for 9 months . Grant funding is one way to supplement their pay up to a full 12 months . Unfortunately , the National Science Foundation , which funds a lot of academic research in the US , only allows a maximum of 2 months to come from NSF , so professors must diversify somehow as well . Additionally , some faculty may choose to buy out some of their required teaching . Many departments will allow you to teach less if you can bring in even more of your salary . Sometimes this is done with grant funding , but I think more often it is done using endowed chairs .
Is hello acceptable , or should it be more formal ( with or without academic titles ) ? This is a matter of ( sub - ) culture . Once you know what to expect , you can effectively communicate . This style is minimalist , but it tells you everything you need to know . If this bothers you , think of it this way : MK is not only saving her or his time , he or she is also saving your time . By using this style it minimizes the time you have to spent reading his message .
I am not aware of any published accounts of how style rules are developed . If you really want to know why a particular rule was developed , you need to asked them directly . That said , there are a number of different styles for dealing with electronic materials and these styles are changing : MLA : You always need the date of access for electronic resources . APA : You rarely use the date of retrieval , although in previous versions ( APA 5 ) you always did CMS : You never need the date of access/retrieval . I am not sure if you ever did in earlier versions .
Yes . It will be called a " Policy and Procedures Handbook " or something like that at most universities in the US . The reason to have such a handbook is to ensure that employees follow proper protocols about a range of different issues . This protects both the employees and the universities legally .
end question
start question
How much freedom do mathematics ph.d. students usually have in choosing a topic for their thesis in the U.S ?
There 's a good deal of variation . Sometimes students are assigned a very specific problem ( " try to prove this conjecture " ) , sometimes given a slightly less concrete direction in a narrow range of a field , and some students do pick topics basically on their own . Some of the variation is based on the individual professor , and some on the student - many , maybe most advisors are willing to give a fair amount of leeway to an exceptionally strong student , and will push more structure on a student who seems slightly weaker ( weaker being quite relative ) . ( For example , I did my thesis in proof theory on a series of problems suggested by my advisor directly extending some of his previous work ; my academic twin did a much more independent thesis in model theory on a topic my advisor had never directly worked in . ) So the answer is that you definitely ca n't count on a set theorist , or especially a non-logician , being willing to supervise a thesis in type theory unless you 've communicated about that in advance , but it is sometimes done . Also , people do occasionally have informal advisors , or even official advisors or co-advisors at other institutions ; the logic community is small , so it is conceivable that if you get into a school with a good logic program and are really interested in a different area of logic you could nonetheless be at least partially supervised by someone at a different institution . But , again , it 's risky to count on this happening .
Short Answer Do n't be too picky at first , learn about others ' work ; try to come up with some problem < - > solution pairs ; and then you shall find your own path ; when writing them down . Longer Answer Fun Fact : Publishable results are based on published results and some more . You need to do ' the some more ' part , and know the ' published results ' . So : 1 . High Rank Publications and their citations : Find the best publications in the area of your work , and see how they solve the problems and how the present their results and who they cited ; and read and learn them as well . 2 . Narrow Down More and More When Writing Down : Ok , now after reading some papers/journals/books , you want to write something . Here we do the following : 2.1 Problem and Solution ( Potential ) : You might ask what problem I want to work on ? Well the one you know how to solve ! I might go and write a code generator and say : " well , it is fast and ' efficient ' " . How do I know ? Well I do n't know ! I need to check it with others . So , we go to the next phase : 2.2 Evaluation and Background Checks : You start evaluation of your work by others ' approach ( and write about it ) . Must likely your approach is not good enough , so you go back to he first step and update this one . 2.3 Introduction and Evaluation Now you know what you are talking about , you write the introduction and conclusion about it . Then Boom ! you have a paper , that could be published . Find a conference/journal and hope for the best !
Is this document important for judges ? You are really asking the wrong question . Any official document that bears your name eternally is important for you and your future . You are a MSc student with probably small number of publications ( if any ) and a MSc thesis is an important milestone on your transition from a student to a researcher . It is also a quite large document ( much larger than the typical scientific publication ) , so writing an excellent document at this scale is a valuable lesson even if you want to work in industry , where technical reports / documentation and deliverables are quite common . Conclusively , you must always strive for excellence and always do the best you can . You must change your student mindset from " Would doing A would get me a better grade " to the adult mindset " Is this really the best I can do within the time constraints I have or could I do better ? " . So you should focus on producing the best thesis document you can ( within your time constraints ) regardless of how lenient the committee might be on judging it .
I 've had classes of this size where I have each student do an individual presentation . It is very time consuming but I also feel it can be very worthwhile . If you give each student 10 minutes to present some information and you have 50 students then you will have 12-13 hours for presentations ( allowing 15 minutes total per student including Q&amp;A , changing students , etc. ) If you teach in 2-hour sessions then it will consume 6-7 sessions . If you have 30-32 sessions per semester it is doable but it also removes a significant chunk of time from lecturing . In my case , I lectured for several weeks ( giving the students time to do their research and giving them the foundations they needed for their presentations ) and then had the students give their presentations . Then I continued lecturing with other assessments later on . The module was not about presentation skills but I do feel that in each subject , we need to teach the students some general skills ( structuring an argument , how to format text , how to research , giving a presentation , etc. ) in addition to the module content . The students ended up understanding the material quite well when judged by their presentations and I found many of them quite eager to learn how they could improve their presentation skills . In the end , I was happy with the overall results and plan to do it again .
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
There 's a good deal of variation . Sometimes students are assigned a very specific problem ( " try to prove this conjecture " ) , sometimes given a slightly less concrete direction in a narrow range of a field , and some students do pick topics basically on their own . Some of the variation is based on the individual professor , and some on the student - many , maybe most advisors are willing to give a fair amount of leeway to an exceptionally strong student , and will push more structure on a student who seems slightly weaker ( weaker being quite relative ) . ( For example , I did my thesis in proof theory on a series of problems suggested by my advisor directly extending some of his previous work ; my academic twin did a much more independent thesis in model theory on a topic my advisor had never directly worked in . ) So the answer is that you definitely ca n't count on a set theorist , or especially a non-logician , being willing to supervise a thesis in type theory unless you 've communicated about that in advance , but it is sometimes done . Also , people do occasionally have informal advisors , or even official advisors or co-advisors at other institutions ; the logic community is small , so it is conceivable that if you get into a school with a good logic program and are really interested in a different area of logic you could nonetheless be at least partially supervised by someone at a different institution . But , again , it 's risky to count on this happening .
I can speak from personal experience . I have a math Ph.D. on a topic with absolutely no real world applications , I work in industry , and my job title is actually " Senior Research Expert " . So yes , there are research careers in industry . And while I wo n't get rich off it , I ca n't complain about the remuneration . However , ( almost ) nobody in industry will pay you for thinking about stuff , going to conferences and writing papers . My research is extremely applied , and I am very much constrained by a ) what customers will pay for and b ) what is feasible given our code base and software architecture . I simply ca n't go off on a tangent and argue that a particular algorithm is very elegant , if it is not implementable in a reasonable amount of time or nobody will buy it . Depending on your Ph.D. topic , be prepared to change fields . I used to do something like discrete optimization - now I do statistics and time series analysis . While I personally do n't code ( which the developers are very happy about ) , I work closely with the developers that actually turn what I thought up into software . Interpersonal skills and the ability to fit into a team and a software development process ( Scrum ) are much more important here than in academia . Research mathematicians are rare , and few people understand what I do and why I 'm paid . It took a long time and some very fortuitous circumstances for me to demonstrate that I do add value to the company , and I was lucky to keep my research job when my company was acquired - my new employer really does n't have research positions as such , so I had to justify why I should keep my niche . Finally , there are about five other originally pure mathematicians in the team I work with , two of them with Ph.D. s. None of them do anything that could be called " research " . They develop software or do analytics . Summarizing : yes , there are math research careers in industry . They are few and far between . Be prepared for an uphill battle , to change fields , to do what needs to be done .
Conferences often use some sort of semi-automated system for matching papers and reviewers , in which case keyword/topic selection will be very important . Even when it is done by hand or by bidding , keyword/topic selection will typically guide who the paper gets assigned to . Moreover , some conferences also have special reviewing procedures or criteria for certain tracks . Thus , what you select determines the audience you are claiming will best appreciate your paper , and thus which reviewers will be looking at it . If you pick the wrong ones , you 'll get unappreciative reviewers , and have a much higher chance of getting rejected . If might get noticed and corrected on your behalf , but in my experience it is more likely that you will simply have a mismatch and get poorly reviewed .
One approach is follows : Find one or two good recent PhD theses in your chosen area . Read these thoroughly . As you read , write down every question that pops into your mind , write down every time the author states that something is left for future work or needs further investigation . This will have a dual effect . Firstly , you will get a good introduction to a particular research field . Secondly , you will have a bunch of questions that need to be investigated . Prune trivial questions , non-sensible ones , etc. . Next , organize your questions thematically and see whether you can find a common thread to these questions , something that could form the basis of your research . Remove any questions that do not fit will with the others . Based on the remaining questions , formulate a couple of coherent questions that your research could address . Write a plan to address these questions . Work through plan . Write thesis .
I 'll answer , not from the perspective of a professor ( I 'm not one ) but as a student who had advisors who were very generous in that regard : What do you mean by independent research ? When people say this , they usually mean research that is outside a clear plan of action . For example , in the biomedical sciences , it 's somewhat common to turn a particular specific aim of an R01 grant into a PhD student 's dissertation . That 's a plan . But along the way , the student may be interested in a methodological musing , a side project , a short data analysis task on something interesting that 's come up , etc. . So basically , I 'd take it to mean anything that 's outside what you 've been tasked to do , or come up with tasking yourself to do , as part of your degree program . Should your students conduct independent research and publication in the field of their PhD/MSc research topic or it can be in any other field of their major and interest ? It probably should n't detract from their research topic , but I 've never seen any reason why more general topics are a problem . Indeed , if the student is restricting it to their research topic , than why is n't this part of their thesis/dissertation in the first place ? If their independent research is not in the field near to their PhD research , should they inform you about their other research projects or not ? It 's good for them to inform you of what they 're working on regardless . They may be able to provide support , put in a kind word to an editor , etc. . And these people will be writing your letters of recommendation - they should be able to talk about the exciting stuff you do even if it 's not directly their project . And they should be informed so they can tell if you 're potentially overburdening yourself .
Here are a couple ways that have resulted in new research directions for me : Reading a paper/book . Reading a paper/book can inspire new ideas . You may find that a paper is missing something , or you think of a way of doing it better , or perhaps you can combine the ideas in the paper with something you already know . Obtaining funding . Often funding is obtained in groups , generally to inspire collaboration and cross-fertilization of ideas . As a result , one is forced to venture into new territory . Talking to a colleague ( generally from other institute ) . Simply chatting with someone at a conference or when visiting another institute can inspire new research directions . They may have a problem ; you may have the tools to solve it . Changing job . This brings you in contact with new people who have new problems . Collaborations my result from conversations in the coffee room , or by going to research discussions within the new department . Following up on something a student has done . You may set a masters student , for example , to look at something you find interesting , but have not yet had time to explore in depth . The student may come up with something useful , but then leaves .
Your situation does n't sound so bad to me at all . First of all , though perhaps I should n't , I will admit that many graduate admissions personnel do not thoroughly scour the transcripts . They look at the GPA and they look at the courses taken . Often this information is given separately on the application , so a look at the actual transcript may only be required if there is something missing there . So there 's a tip for you : if you are asked for separate information about courses taken , definitely be sure to list it . ( If on the other hand you are asked to list the courses taken together with the grades you got , it seems to me that you are ethically obligated to list the W 's . ) More than this though , W 's occupy a sort of nether region in academic grading . In my university we have WP ( withdrew passing ) and WF ( withdrew failing ) . Only the latter affects your grade , and my understanding is that WP is not meant to be a stigmatic mark at all . ( In fact undergraduate students are limited to 4 WP 's over the course of their careers . ) Unless the registrar puts an asterisk next to your 3.85 GPA and says warning : there were some W 's ! then in at least one very official sense the W 's are not being counted . More good news : all of the W 's are in your first year . That is exactly the sort of localized difficulty followed by dramatic improvement that admissions committees are looking for . I think it would be a good idea to use your personal statement to briefly address the W 's . I 'm thinking of one or two sentences which acknowledge that they exist , say a few vague words of excuse ( e.g. " time to adjust to a new academic environment " , " personal difficulties long since resolved " ; nothing too specific or gory ) , and especially : point out how nicely you 've moved on . If you feel like you can use the W 's as part of a larger depiction of a crescendo of academic accomplishment , you might try that , but that 's a more " advanced technique " , so to speak . I think it is quite likely that the average effect this will have on your application is little or none . Honestly , to me you sound significantly more guilty / apprehensive about a minor issue long since resolved than you need to be . I forgive you ! Please do n't hesitate to apply to all the PhD programs you 're interested in . ( If you like algebra/number theory/geometry/topology , please consider UGA . )
When looking for a postdoc and visiting multiple labs , I was asked to split the reimbursement for travel costs between the institutions . The exact details of how to split were left to me . Most institutions expect to fund the entire trip for faculty candidates , so I do n't foresee any problems with you asking them to pay less than what they expected .
One of the reasons , if not the only one , is that each year journal issues are typically collected by libraries in bound volumes , which , in this way , have a continuous numbering . At the end of the year , journals would also publish indexes for relatively quick reference . Or , at least , that is what is used to be . Below , there is an example of bound volumes ( <URL> ) . <URL>
As <URL> , W3 only gives the Grundgehalt ( base salary ) , which varies by state . As a public servant , you will automatically get a few hundred EUR on top if you are married and/or have children ( Familienzuschlag ) . Note also that in some states ( Bayern , Hessen , Sachsen ) , your W2 or W3 Grundgehalt will currently increase in two steps after 5/12 or after 7/14 years . You can supplement the Grundgehalt with various Zulagen . These are pay increases , not one-time bonuses . You can get Zulagen either for a set period ( befristete Zulage , i.e. , a temporary one ) , or for the rest of your working life ( unbefristete Zulage ) . You can negotiate so-called Leistungszulagen ( a performance bonus ) , for instance if you manage to get lots of third-party money , publish a lot , or supervise a lot of dissertations , or similar things . You typically discuss multi-year targets with your dean and/or university president or chancellor . Some German states ( Brandenburg , Bremen , Hamburg ) currently give you a non-trivial Grundleistungszulage without any preconditions . You may get Funktionszulagen if you hold particular offices , like being the dean or managing a larger group , or managing a specific institution or institute . If you get an offer from a different university , you will start haggling with both the new university and the one you are at . Both usually want you , so both will offer you a Berufungszulage ( a " job offer pay increase " , at the university that extended the offer ) , or a Bleibezulage ( a " staying pay increase " , at the university that tries to keep you ) . In contrast to industry , this kind of haggling is normal . ( In industry , if you get an outside offer but stay in exchange for a higher salary , your manager will usually assume that you wo n't stay much longer . ) As a brand-new professor , you may be able to get a small initial Berufungszulage , but most other Zulagen will only be negotiatable after a few years . The <URL> is a good place to look for additional information . This is basically a union for professors and almost-professors in Germany , and they offer coaching to their members . Very much recommended in your first ( and subsequent ) salary negotiations - they know what you can reasonably demand and what not . A membership is definitely worth the dues . They also publish the pay scales <URL> . In addition , you can get additional money from outside sources : You can have consulting contracts in industry . You will usually need to clear this with your university , and your outside commitments will likely be capped at 8 hours per week or similar , but this can of course still mean serious money . If you are a professor at a medical school or a Universittsklinik , you will be able to see private patients and take home some of their payments , although this has been getting less lucrative in recent years , with the clinic keeping a larger cut from younger professors . You could set up your own practice on the side , but this would again be subject to limitations set by your employer . As <URL> , you can get a little money out of the <URL> - see some <URL> . It essentially disburses monies as payments for people using your copyrighted works ( they get their money from various sources ) . It 's a very German institution . This will usually not be a lot of money , especially if you publish with a lot of coauthors . <URL> . However , if you do publish a book , you will be able to keep any payments from the publisher . This will again usually not be a lot , and it 's not specific to Germany . Finally , note that a professor in Germany is a <URL> ( public servant ) . This means that you pay far less in social security contributions , since you by definition ca n't lose your job ( so no joblessness insurance contributions ) , and the state will pay your pension ( so you do n't need to contribute - although saving for your old age is still a good idea ) . The state also pays for part of your medical bills and those of your dependents ( Beihilfe ) , and since you are a good risk ( see above on not losing your job ) , you will get good deals on remaining health and other insurance policies . Bottom line : out of 75k EUR , you will take home a larger fraction than if you earned the same amount in industry .
Yes . It will be called a " Policy and Procedures Handbook " or something like that at most universities in the US . The reason to have such a handbook is to ensure that employees follow proper protocols about a range of different issues . This protects both the employees and the universities legally .
The reason this question is asked by journals is that <URL> , the US government may not , by law , hold the US copyright in a work created by its employees , and , therefore , can not transfer it to the publisher of the journal as is traditionally done in most academic publishing agreements . As such , the journal ca n't ask those authors who are US government employees to sign the copyright transfer and must use a different agreement . If one or more of the authors is not a US government employee , then those authors will still need to make the transfer . Employees of US state governments , which includes most public university employees in the US , do not have this limitation , and can make the copyright transfer or other licensing arrangement that the publisher requires .
If you are applying as an international student , you need TOEFL . It does not depend on you high school education . For international students , you will be considered as a non-native english speaker , so toefl is necessary . If you are applying as a domestic student ( meanign you have citizenship/greencard ) , you dont need toefl . Anyways , toefl is a very easy exam !
How much detail to provide in the introduction depends on the circumstances . The minimum requirement is to give enough context and references that a diligent reader could fill in any missing background , at the cost of some extra work . However , that 's a pretty undemanding requirement ; a few papers fail to do this , but they generally fail by not even trying . It 's often valuable to do more to make life easier for the reader . How much more depends on who you expect will read the paper , and on what you believe they want or need from the introduction . ( Some papers are read only by impatient experts , while others attract a broad audience . ) What 's considered appropriate may vary between fields or even subfields , but here are a few general principles : Targeting an audience for your papers can be a self-fulfilling prophecy . If you aim at a very specialized audience , it becomes much less likely that anyone else will read your papers . Attracting a broader audience is on the whole a good thing , both for scientific progress and for your own career , so it 's best not to limit your audience unnecessarily . If modest changes will make your writing much more accessible , then they are probably a good idea . It 's easy to overestimate how much readers really know . In an ideal world , every researcher would remember all the details of everything they ever studied , but life does n't work that way . Of course you ca n't re-teach things from scratch ( and should n't even try ) , but sometimes a brief reminder can be really helpful . This is particularly true when the details matter : if the reader really needs to know exactly how a certain algorithm works to understand your paper , then restating the algorithm can be worthwhile even if you suspect most readers will already be somewhat familiar with it . Those who already know the details can easily skim just enough to convince themselves that their version is the same as yours , while those who do n't can read more carefully . The introduction plays a crucial role in describing the context and explaining why you did these things and what the consequences are . It may not be the part of the paper that most excites you , but it will almost certainly be the most-read section ( not counting the abstract ) . The purpose of your paper is to communicate your discoveries , and making the introduction more accessible is sometimes the best way to achieve this .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
end question
start question
Is it " okay " to submit to a workshop without proceedings while in review for publication ?
Short answer : okay , and a quite good idea , for the reasons and with few limits , see below . in academia one should never submit the same paper to two journals If only noone had done that ... So I suppose that you have a journal paper under review ( your title ) . And the workshop asks for a contribution . I doubt you will directly send the paper under review to the workshop committee . So you will write something " else " for the workshop , possibly a shortened version . Recently , I read a chronic in IEEE Information Theory Society Newsletter ( see below for the full quote ) . In the 1950s , apparently , you could present a paper to the associated workshop/conference ( only ) when it was accepted or published before in the journal . This has the advantage the audience could read the paper in detail before the talk , and allow nicer discussions . Recently , some IEEE conferences ( ICASSP , ICIP , GlobalSIP ) have begun the accept " submissions " , after the official deadlines , from papers already accepted in <URL> ( which has the same 5-page same format as the conference ) . The paper , once accepted , is presented at the conference , but it is not in the abstract book : of course , it is already " being published " by the journal . These examples show that limiting the clutter of unfinished works , submitted too early and several times at conferences , was and still is possible . Indeed , if one writes a conference paper , after presenting it , it is sometimes difficult to find the energy to write the full paper . So this sounds perfectly fine to me . The main thing to care about is ownership : as the preprint ( submitted ) is still yours , and as long as it does not infringe the workshop rules . I believe though it is honest , and useful , to mention in your workshop absract , that the extended version of the work is " under submission " , " under revision " in a journal ( you can mention the name or not ) , or accepted with the date of acceptance . <URL> ( <URL> ) , in the The Historian 's Column : It is worth noting in Fano 's letter that the number of sessions was six ( 6 ! ) and all of them were in series . Each paper was presented for about 20 minutes with 10 minutes left for discussion which was invariably lively and had to be stopped by the chair person to make sure that the schedule was kept in time . But consider this : The papers were FIRST published in the Transactions and THEN they were presented at the Symposium !! That is a total reversal of what we do today . The distinct advantage of this arrangement was that the audience had the benefit of studying the papers carefully ahead of time , which enabled an in-depth discussion after the presentation . Not a bad idea !
<URL> is basically an automated means of making sure that you did n't mess up your document preparation in a way that will later become a headache for you , the conference organizers , or the IEEE . For example , you might have things misconfigured such that you ended up with A4 instead of US Letter paper , or have some bad fonts in there . If you 're using the standard IEEE LaTeX templates and not doing anything particularly creative with your formatting this should n't happen , but even then sometimes it does . The IEEE camera-ready sites will typically tell you that you are required to check beforehand , but de facto allow you to submit . This is sometimes very important , because sometimes PDF Express is n't working ( we had an issue of this type with a conference earlier this summer ) . Checking with PDF Express is a good practice to follow , however , because it 's a few seconds of insurance against the possibility of a whole bunch of headache for yourself and others down the line .
This is somewhat field dependent , but your academic career could be much more challenging if your disability or other circumstances prevent you from traveling . You may need to travel to job interviews at the very least . Not attending conferences to present your research will reduce the visibility of your work , and so you will struggle to get your ideas well known in your field . This could reduce your job prospects . You will need to have your research products well-advertised on the web in order to have any name recognition . Your research may also have to be more ground-breaking in order to garner recognition . If , for example , you work in Computer Science , conference publications are typically the most prestigious , so the inability to travel to present your work may mean that it is not published . I do n't mean to be too discouraging , but I think you should reevaluate whether or not you can make 1 or 2 trips per year in order to present your work . It may do wonders for how hard your career is otherwise . On the plus side , you might also try talking to some conference organizers before you submit your work about presenting your results via video conference . I was at a workshop this week where a presenter could n't make it due to a last-minute problem with his flight , and he gave a great presentation via Google Hangouts . He was n't there to network , but at least his presentation happened . If your reasons for not traveling are due to disability ( including mental disabilities like social anxiety , agoraphobia , etc. ) , the country where the conference happens may require that they try to accommodate your needs .
Ultimately , you and your co-authors are responsible for the contents of your manuscript . You can cite abstracts of works you have n't read in full , in any language , including your native tongue . However , misuse of such abstracts can always be called out by the reviewers of your paper . You will be responsible for defending your choices in the review process , if need be . Ultimately , however , citing a foreign-language abstract ultimately is no different than citing one in English . The exact details depend on the citation format for the journal you intend to submit to , so check their guidelines . In general , you do not translate titles of articles or journals into their English language equivalent ( unless the journals have done so themselves ! ) .
Yes , you should definitely send another polite email . You could also write directly to the editor , since your situation sounds fairly unreasonable . You deserve some sort of response to your submission . I would consider withdrawing the paper and submitting it elsewhere if you do n't get a response .
This is indeed a weird question , though not an uninteresting one . Fundamentally a name is a pointer to a person , of a formalized and official sort , but of course for every person there are multiple phrases that point to them . Any article byline gives a mapping to the set of objects named , and the idea that perhaps this function need not or should not be one-to-one is a very curious one . I do n't know a general principle to invoke from which to deduce the " injectivity of authorial bylines " , but multiple names pointing to the same person would be highly nonstandard and powerfully confusing to many . I 'm not sure what to make of the fact that your example of a name change is motivated by a sex change . Name changes are common occurrences for people of all genders , and the percentage of name changes which are motivated by issues of gender identity and/or sex changes is very small . The largest percentage is surely when people ( not just women , though still more women than men ) get married , and then comes people who have moved from one part of the world to another where their name is difficult to pronounce , written in a different alphabet , sounds like something undesirable in the language of their new home , and so forth . Also papers published in one language are often translated into another , with the effect that e.g. many Russian authors are known by several moderately different names in the anglophone academic community . Adding a clarifying note that say that multiple spellings point to the same person could be helpful . In <URL> the byline is " Yuri G. Zarhin ( Zarkhin ) " , which is perhaps the closest thing I 've seen to the practice you 're asking about . However , there are nuances in your question that suggest the sex change example is not accidental : you actually mean to consider deeper issues of personal identity . In other words , what if beyond changing their name , someone considers themself to actually be a different person ? I get this for instance from What happens if Jane never worked on the project , can she be the author or does it have to be John ? The obvious answer is " What are you talking about ? Jane Doe and John Doe are the same person . So of course Jane worked on the project . The fact that the name ' Jane ' was not applied to this person while she was working on the project is totally irrelevant . " However , it could be that Jane feels that she is really a different person from John . Maybe she arranges [ illegally , perhaps ; I do n't know how this works ] to get a new social security number and otherwise systematically denies and delinks her new identity from her old one . In that case it could be meaningful -- even critical -- to her that Jane did n't work on the project , rather John did . However , though Jane 's perspective is a highly interesting one , it is not going to hold up in the practicalities of an academic career , as she presumably wants to regard John 's training and credentials as her own . If she tries to make a CV of Jane Doe 's work only , she is going to at best confuse everyone and more likely shoot herself in the foot . It would be worth hearing from a transgendered academic [ I am not one ] for more nuances about this . My understanding is that the above exigencies essentially require them to explain carefully in their CV that they have changed their name from John Doe to Jane Doe and thus can not professionally behave like they are two different people . If you are including the identity " John Doe = Jane Doe " anyway , then if it has deep personal significance to you to list yourself as John Doe on a paper that you worked on while you were John Doe even though you now sign all your papers Jane Doe , you can make that choice ( and certainly it is your choice : the idea of anyone else telling you what to do here is somewhere between cruel and absurd ) . What you can not do is list both John Doe and Jane Doe as authors . Well , not unless you wish to be truly transgressive : perhaps there are some areas of academia in which the jarring , confusing nature of such a byline would be viewed positively .
I do n't think the fact that your research mentor is the dean changes the issue . The only minor thing might be that the dean may be even more concerned that they follow official university policy . Thus , all the general questions about buying a gift for your supervisor would apply : <URL> <URL> The core issue from my perspective is that you want to avoid a conflict of interest for the advisor . Thus , I would wait to give a gift at least until after you have passed your thesis . In addition , it is important that the gift is not too expensive . Many universities have policies about gifts over a certain value having to be declared or are even forbidden . Furthermore , if the gift is expensive , it has greater potential to be seen as creating a conflict of interest . Related to this principle is the idea that the gift should be a small token of appreciation and , in no way , should it represent a form of payment . Also , as you suggest , custom and policy can vary between universities . So that should be a good guide to what is reasonable .
It is normal . Often there is one referee who writes an extensive review , whose judgment weight heaviest with the editor . If there are 4 reviews , 3 are in the " publish " half of the spectrum but are brief ( not adequately justifying the recommendation ) , and there is 1 " reject " review which extensively argues against publication , an editor will either have to apply his/her own knowledge of the field and decide which argument carries the day , or will need to request an additional review . Good editors do not just count up the plus and minus values , they have to evaluate the evidence in the reviews . If you make the case for reconsideration , I think it should focus on the question of whether positive evidence in the reviews has been undervalued . There 's not much you can do if the negative reviewer is ( unbeknownst to you ) The Leading Authority .
A systematic literature review is never a bad thing . At the worst , you have a large database of literature that you can cite in future work . as well as a feeling for where the " low-hanging fruit " might lie . It will also give you a framework on which to build and grow your literature collection over time . So whether or not you are able to publish it , a literature review is a good thing ( within reason -- do n't spend six months doing nothing but reading literature papers ! ) .
The " editors " for a conference , such as they exist , would typically be the program chairs ( if that position exists ) , or the general chairs ( if it does not ) . This should be listed on the conference web site or the front matter of its proceedings .
When it comes to conferences , if there were submitted papers , and they were published as a volume , that volume is called the proceedings . A paper that was published in the proceedings must have been accepted by the conference . Sometimes the proceedings are published as a standalone work , and sometimes they are published as a special issue of a journal . It should be noted that some societies publish a journal that has " Proceedings " in the title , such as the " Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences " or the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " . These should be distinguished as standalone journals and not confused with the proceedings of a conference .
I 've helped organize several minisymposia ( MS ) at conferences that are built entirely out of them , and it 's basically expected that we submit to our own MS. Out of three MS organizers and 8-10 expected speaking slots , 2-3 will be from the organizers . A few workshops I 've attended at more prestigious conferences have been similar . The conference wants its events to be full , and if the subevents are peer reviewed , especially double-blind , then there 's no possible conflict of interest in my view . Even for single-blind review or no review ( abstract-only submission ) as long as you do n't review your own work , there 's no problem and self-submission is practically expected in the fields I publish in .
Yes , it is acceptable , particularly since the author lists will all be different . Go for it ! One word of warning : The papers themselves must have clearly different content . If you submit five nearly identical papers , the editors are likely to accept at most the best one and reject the rest . That will annoy your other co-authors mightily .
I would check a few articles of the journal you publish in and look at what other author are putting in their biography . Mostly it will be about your degrees ( BSc , MSc , PhD , when and where ) , the field of research you are interested in and what is your current occupation . In summary you can state anything that shows your experitise in the subject you are discussing in the paper . If no one but yourself paid you for the research , you can state it like : beside a job as your paying job he/she is working on paper subject or Since date has been working on paper subject
Thanks for clarifying . Do n't worry about the effect this would have on your future chances with this paper and this journal . If this pre-submission step fails , that is an indication that the classic approach would also fail . Either they feel it 's worth sending out for review or they do n't . But send the whole thing , not just the abstract . They need to be able to see the tables and figures . When you send the full long version to the editor , here 's a way to word the question : ask whether the work is appropriate for the journal . If you get an encouraging response , then you can start slashing , do a formal submission , and hope for the best ! ( Source : I have to give the credit to my spouse for this answer , who has about 250 publications . Edit : in case this helps -- in the field of experimental physics . )
Creating a conference is a very worthwhile activity -- however , even organizing a two-day workshop can be a logistical nightmare that requires a dedicated support staff to pull off efficiently . If you do n't have it , you can still get it done , but it still requires a lot of planning and a lot of effort . I was invited to participate in the scientific committee for a workshop to be held here on campus and hosted by my institute . Even though we had the administrative staff taking care of organizing room reservations , hotel blocks , catering , name badges , preparation of the formal program , and so on , there 's still a lot of work involved , particularly if you 're the chair . You 'll need to contact ( and sometimes harass ) speakers , look for funding , recruit attendees , advertise like crazy , and so much more . However , if you can make your workshop a part of someone else 's existing conference , then you can remedy many of these problems -- the existing conference 's infrastructure goes a long way in supporting your workshop and its goals . Frankly , if I was going to try to start a new workshop that would take on its own independent existence , that 's the route I 'd choose . If the workshop inside of another conference received good feedback , only then would I try to make it an independent event in the future . In that time , you 'd also have figured out who the other " major players " are who could serve on future scientific committees . The conference we started was created by our institute , so dividing up the responsibilities was relatively natural : the head of the institute was the head of the conference , and we divided up the work of programming the sessions among the members of the committee . If you do n't have that option available -- if , for instance , you 're the primary mover and shaker behind the workshop -- that puts more work on your plate . If you 're doing a workshop under the aegis of a larger program , then I would think you would be the chair of the program . You could select other people to be on the organizing committee , but as the person doing the recruiting , you 're going to be the one the others look to for guidance and decision-making -- at least at first . So I think the " founder " is going to be the general chair or the organizational chair , at least the first time around . Should the conference survive to have a second iteration , then at that point establishing some sort of successorship makes a lot of sense , because nobody really wants to go through the process of organizing all of those details every other year ; it 's too much work . But , if you want to know , the order did go something like this : Steering committee of institute decided to hold conference Steering committee appointed emeritus faculty member as program committee leader . Steering committee appointed junior faculty as committee members . Program committee came up with several tentative plans . Steering committee decided on final overall structure . Program committee scrambled to find speakers to fit new structure decided on by SC . Program committee puts together advertising , recruits speakers , organizes poster session , organizes conference structure , and performs other duties as needed . Organizing team handles payments , attendance and registration issues , travel and accommodation issues , operation of conference , and so on . The other thing to consider is that the planning for something like this typically requires on the order of 12 to 18 months , even if you 're just doing an event locally hosted at your university ( like ours was ) . For something more complicated , you may need even more lead time .
If you have control over the lab software Have your IT dept install software that will allow you to monitor the activity on each system . I think the term is Classroom management software . Sit back and watch for suspicious activity . Otherwise - adapt I like the strategies discussed in this question about take-home exams ( <URL> ) The TL/DR - think about how you might test learning of the material in a situation where students ARE going to collaborate and ARE going to access materials on the subject . My two cents on the concept of computer based exams it seems to me that this is a better way to evaluate students ' programming skills than a paper-based quiz/exam , given that in the real world , people write code on a computer , not on paper . I do n't agree with this statement , because in the real world people also have access to other supports like references and peers while writing code on a computer . I do n't think writing a coding exam on a computer actually tests knowledge of coding any better than writing code on paper . In fact , in some ways it hampers student performance because they must focus on creating properly formatted , compilable , code instead of getting their knowledge of the concepts on paper . Pseudo code is faster to write and easier to evaluate . If you want to test their ability to write executable code , give them assignments .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
In addition to gerrit 's answer ( which I completely agree with ) , if you are in the situation where it would be hard to decline ( conferences sometimes have very short deadlines ) , you might review this paper as a " non-expert " . It 's indeed quite common ( at least in Computer Science ) that the review should indicate both the score ( i.e. , reject/accept ) and the confidence of the reviewer . If you indicate a low confidence score , then your decision has a lower weight than those with higher confidence . In that case , you can review the paper from a more global point of view ( like any non-specialist reader would see the paper ) : is the problem well explained , does the solution seem consistent with the problem description , is the language correct , etc. . Ideally , it would be better to decline the review , but if the paper is also reviewed by two or more experts , then your review could bring a good non-expert vision . If the paper is reviewed only by non-experts , then either the paper is off-topic , and it 's the author 's problem , or the PC chair did n't do the job correctly .
No , it 's not permissible . Some minor overlap in wording can occur naturally ( e.g. , you could n't possibly avoid all two-word phrases anyone has ever used before ) , but deliberately copying text is different . If the copied text is special or remarkable and says something better than you could have said it , then you should attribute it to its source and not seem to be presenting it as your own words . Citing the source nearby is not considered enough to indicate a verbatim quote . On the other hand , if there 's nothing special about the copied text , then there 's no reason to copy it . ( I suppose it could save you a few minutes of work in writing your own explanation to replace these sentences , but that 's not considered a good excuse . )
end question
start question
What constitutes a conflict of interest by minimum ?
Such a section usually is n't required for papers in my field , but you should probably put something like " Joe Smith moved from The University of Bobtown to ACME , Inc. during the preparation of this manuscript . "
I think this is too broad a question to have a really good answer , but I think the most generic one is : not really . If your study abroad experience could provide some unique opportunity to deepen your knowledge of the field , then that might get some real consideration . Otherwise , it probably wo n't be seen that differently from other classes , and in some cases viewed more skeptically if they were at a program whose reputation is less established . EDIT : In particular , to address the last sentence , living abroad will count for extremely little . As one counterexample , I will mention that when I applied for grad school , one graduate director explicitly mentioned my study abroad experience . However , I think this is the sort of exception that proves the rule : I went to a very <URL> specific to my field ; I was going to a small liberal arts institution , so the study abroad program actually had a stronger reputation , probably ; and I took a very ambitious schedule and he mentioned the specific classes I had taken , not the generic fact that I had gone . My point is , study abroad can mean many things . Use your good sense ( or talk to mentors ) about how different ones can affect your graduate school applications .
As I understand it , in a typical private U.S. research university the different colleges or schools that make up the university have no legal independence , and they are simply administrative units within the university . ( On the other hand , part of the endowment generally consists of restricted gifts , which can only be used in certain ways or by certain departments . This can give the corresponding parts of the university more power or independence in practice than one might otherwise suppose . ) Do the Colleges have members , and if so who are the members ? Are all the matriculated members , or just current students ? Are the faculty members of the College ? This is entirely a matter of university policy . Current students , staff , and faculty would usually be considered members of their corresponding colleges , but this can vary ( and some universities just are n't organized this way in the first place ) . In practice , this generally does n't mean very much : it may determine some requirements for students in addition to departmental requirements , it could be listed as an affiliation on your publications ( although departments are more common ) , it might give a few privileges such as building or library access , and it tells you how to fill out university forms , but it 's otherwise not a big deal .
It does not make a difference whether your review would be positive or negative , and it is your duty to keep your discussions about the student confidential . Should you choose to review their application , you should not tell the student or anyone not involved in the process that you are doing so . You are being asked to help your university , or maybe just a professor who trusts you , to help with their admissions and hiring process . You should take it seriously and give an honest review if you can . If you do n't feel like you can be objective in your review ( maybe the student is a friend or colleague ) , then you should decline to do so . But I do n't feel like there 's an ethical issue in the applicant not knowing that you 've been asked about them .
Short answer - CC-BY is most common in OA generally but it 's not ubiquitous , and you 'd not be alone if you did n't use it . It 's certainly a topic of some debate . Generally speaking , humanities academics/journals are more concerned about it than the sciences ( see eg <URL> . Concerns about commercial reuse ( NC ) are usually more common than about derivatives ( ND ) . CC-BY is by now more or less the standard in the sciences . Almost all all-OA titles that I 've dealt with in the earth sciences &amp; biological sciences use this as the default , though there are a small handful that use CC-BY-NC or CC-BY-NC-ND as their standard license ( CC-BY-ND is rare ) , and a few that run on a more traditional " no license but we 're always free to read " basis . I have seen CC-0 and CC-BY-SA papers but this is very unusual . Hybrid titles ( subscription journals with a per-article OA option ) tend to have more mixed arrangements , with some offering only CC-BY , some a choice of CC licenses , some a generic " free to read " option , etc. . Hybrid titles published by the major commercial publishers tend to have a one-size-fits-all license policy regardless of their subject matter . Some numbers to illustrate this : in 2014 my institution published 93 CC-BY papers , six CC-BY-NC , and four CC-BY-NC-ND . Four of the NC ( - ND ) papers were in hybrid titles with a choice of license , the others were required by journal policy . As noted , this is a mix of publishing in the earth &amp; biological sciences . Meanwhile , much of the drive for licensing comes from funding agencies . These tend to either ( a ) require the CC-BY license ( Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , Wellcome Trust , Research Councils UK ) , or ( b ) not specify a license as such ( NSF , HEFCE ) . UK funders have been more aggressive about specifying a fixed license than US ones .
In my field the thinking is It draws attention to posters from conference participators . It provides encouragements to individuals ( students ) to make an extra effort It encourages discussion about " good poster design " The selection criteria is always focusing on good communication of good science , never one or the other . Since such awards are given only to students and there ids usually also a similar student presentation award both selected by a set of valued senior scientists , the award should be and is seen as a merit .
I agree that honesty is the best policy , and it 's too bad if you 're in a situation in which you feel worried about admitting you do n't know the answer . You should n't try to bluff , by pretending you know but do n't have time to explain or by giving an intentionally vague answer . However , there are ways of handling it more smoothly than just saying " I do n't know " and leaving it at that . Depending on the circumstances , you can say " That 's a really interesting question . I have n't thought about it , so I 'll have to look into it , but let 's talk about it in office hours . " ( Or you can promise to return to the topic in the next class meeting if it 's really relevant to the course and everyone in the class will want to know the answer . ) Or " These issues can be complicated . I do n't know the details off the top of my head , but the place I 'd look them up is Reference Work X. I 'd be happy to show you where to find it after class . " Or " That 's a good question , but it 's somewhat beyond the scope of this class . I 'd be happy to investigate it with you outside of class . " The key is to respect the student 's desire to learn . If you avoid the question or give an answer you know is inadequate , then you 're being deliberately unhelpful . If you just give up and admit defeat , then at least you 're being honest , but the student still is n't finding out what he/she wanted to know . If you respond by pointing the student on the road to an answer , even if you ca n't supply it off the top of your head , then you 've done everything that can be expected of you .
Do not automatically cite everything X has cited . You should only cite a paper you 've read , and it will be assumed that you have read everything you cite . Author X could have made a mistake , misunderstood something or deliberately misrepresented something . Whether it 's worth tracing back every reference cited in X 's paper depends why you 're referring to it . If your paper describes an alternative model and the differences can be traced back to , for example , the data sources you 've used , then you should go back to them , read them and cite them ; ditto if your paper is a critical review of X 's model . If you 're simply using X 's model out-of-the-box you do n't necessarily need to go back and pick over every source for every parameter estimate .
There 's no absolute here -- it really depends on the program in question . Some departments are stricter about cutoffs than others . It depends a lot on the number of applications they receive , and how selective they need to be . However , I know that many good departments do n't screen on GPA alone . However , even if you 're GPA is not " elite , " that 's not the end of the world , so long as you have the research experience and the letters of recommendation to support you . ( A student from our department was recently admitted to a top-10 engineering program in the US on the basis of his research experience -- his GPA was pedestrian at best . )
The process of finding the intersection of the references in a given set of papers is known as <URL> and was first proposed by M. M. Kessler in 1963 in a paper that sadly remains <URL> . Kessler was thinking about doing this for pairs of papers but of course you could do this for an arbitrary number . What might also be interesting would be to look for the set of papers reachable by following citation trails backward in time through any number of steps . I am unaware of any on-line tools that perform this type of comparison for you , though it would not be hard to build such a thing if you had access to a big enough citation graph .
The following answer is based on my understanding of what it means to organise a symposium in a conference ( i.e. , commonly a conference session of about 60 to 120 minutes with around 3 to 8 talks all with a common theme , where the chair is the one to invite and arrange the talks and often provides a more general introduction to the talks ) . Obviously , I 'm not talking about the more mundane task of merely chairing a session , which can be as simple as you being the designated person that ensures that each talk keeps to time . You can build relationships with the other presenters in your session . If you are organising a symposium , then you will be contacting other possible presenters who you think may be attending . This often provides an excuse to connect with people you may only know through their research . For people you already know well , it can provide an excuse to catch up at the conference , which in turn can flow into research collaborations or other opportunities . You are likely to get more people to your session , and those that come may be more interested in your topic . If attendees see that your session is all about your topic , then people interested in your topic are more likely to attend . In contrast if you present an individual paper , it may get lost in a more general session . Chairing a session can help people see you as a person active in the topic . Chairing a session can be something you put down on your CV , performance review , promotion application , grant application , etc. . It 's generally not a huge thing . In many , but not all , fields , conferences are more a means to an end . In these cases journal articles and grants are more important . That said , chairing a symposium that you organised does show some academic leadership that would count for something .
You 'll very quickly learn that being an academic involves more than just writing research papers . Your time as a postdoc is when you can start learning about these other aspects , while building your own profile . A postdoc needs to do the following : Build a publication record . This will involve both what you are paid to do and your own line of research . Get involved with supervising students . Help with the PhDs in the lab , and get involved in supervising masters students . Get involved with obtaining funding . This can either be by helping your employer or ( ideally ) obtaining your own funding . Build an international reputation . Start collaborating with external parties . Gain some teaching experience . This is absolutely crucial if you want a faculty position . Learn how to manage projects and a lab . This includes overseeing the progress of projects , allocating your time ( and others ) , presenting results at meetings and writing deliverables . If you are in a lab setting , you will need to learn how to fix/calibrate/maintain critical equipment and software so that you can start your own lab some day , and you will need to become proficient in teaching more junior members on how to use that equipment . Start to devise a strategic research plan . While it is fun to do opportunistic research , solving a problem that comes along or investigating any idea that pops into your head , a better long term strategy is to formulate an interesting long term research plan and follow it , building result upon result . Be as proactive as humanly possible , without being annoying . Talk to everyone in the department , especially people whose research interests are close to your . Go to conferences and sit down and work with interesting people ( not necessarily the superstars ) .
The comments are already spot on , but let me elaborate a bit . Comparing h-indices ( or any other " hard " metric ) is already dangerous in narrow fields and downright foolish if used for comparisons among different fields . This is not only because some fields are larger than others , but also because : Differences in publication standards . In applied CS we write lots of papers , in many natural sciences , much fewer papers get written per researcher and time period . Arguably , this is because many empirical fields require the setup and analysis of lengthy experiments , something that is not typically ( but not never ) done in CS . Difference in co-author ethics . Just check around here on this stack exchange , and you will see that standards for co-authorship are not at all uniform in all fields . Clearly , fields with more loose co-authorship standards also expect researchers to be part of more paper projects , hence leading to higher h-indices on average . Differences in citation standards . In some fields , papers traditionally have 10 or less citations . In others , multiple dozen references are considered an informal minimum , again leading to higher average h-indices . ( and this is even without going into how easy h-indices are to manipulate if you are willing to - keyword " citation rings " )
Though a Ph.D is not necessarily a disadvantage , depending on the field and the nature of the Ph.D , it may also not be as competitive as the equivalent number of years in industry . Think from a perspective of a hiring dev team leader who needs a good systems engineer yesterday to help integrate some obscure API from a vendor into their product . You 're choosing between a pile of resumes . On one , you have a candidate who has 3 years as a junior engineer in a company that worked on image sensors , 2 years of work as a systems developer II , and one year as a lead developer on a computer vision project . He 's delivered seven projects in total and has worked in a highly cross-functional team of hardware and software engineers , salespeople , and on-site support staff . The products he worked on brought the company revenue of $ 86.3 million dollars over seven years . On another , you have a candidate who has done 6 years in a Ph.D and 1 year worth of internships in total . He 's worked on a computer vision project and has contributed a novel algorithm to solving " Line tracing under low UV light conditions " ( I made that up , I have no idea if that 's a real problem in computer vision ) , and has written six publications . He also has taught a course on 3rd year systems programming and has TAed robotics three times . While they are both good candidates , chances are that unless you need someone who does " line tracing under UV light " , the first candidate might be more attractive . Less training , less having to work with that person to integrate them into a product-based flow , proven record of delivering product and making sales , etc. . . I personally feel that the " disadvantage " of a Ph.D is more about lost opportunity cost than an actual disadvantage . In many cases , the culture of academia vs. industry are different enough that it 's like switching fields even if the technologies are similar . Basically , someone with 7 years actual work experience has enough to basically go from a new grad hire to a project team lead , whereas someone with 7 years of Ph.D is proven to deliver in an academic setting but not in a for-profit product-based one . However , at the same time , there are many industries that want to have Ph.Ds on their staff as well because they are long-term , deep thinkers who are rigorous and detailed .
" in-house " program is the term I always use myself and see in other people 's papers . In the corporate context , <URL> defines it as In-house software is a software that is produced by a corporate entity for purpose of using it within the organization . <URL> in an academic context Energy minimization is done with yammp , an in-house molecular mechanics package . <URL> All analyses were done with a battery of in-house codes and external analytical tools . I would n't say " in-house " strictly means " the source code is private " . I have sometimes seen people use " in-house " to mean " code our own research group wrote and uses , but which we also make available as open-source code " . But if I see a sentence in an article like " All analysis was performed using in-house code " , and no reference , then I read it as " We used some code we wrote ourselves which we have n't published anywhere " , which sounds like what you want .
My guess about the situation is that your prior rejections will not significantly affect the editors ' opinions on your new submission . However , the fact of your prior repeated rejections is evidence that you are misjudging the suitability of your papers for that journal , either the aptness of the topic ( s ) , or the level and quality . Thus , if I had to wager , I 'd bet that you 'll be rejected again ... not because you were rejected before , but because the factors in play that led to your prior rejections will most likely manifest themselves in the present case . So , really , you should get more-specific advice from an advisor or mentor about appropriate venue ( s ) for your papers , as well as possibly critiques of the writing style .
In deciding who to list as the author of the paper , I would n't pay any attention to the copyright line . Academic standards are not concerned with who owns the paper legally , but who actually made it . For a recent paper I co-wrote , we signed over the copyright to the publisher . So if you look at its copyright line , you 'll see " American Mathematical Society " . That does n't mean you should cite the paper as having been authored by the American Mathematical Society . What name ( s ) appear on the article 's title page , right under the title itself ? That 's who you should credit as the author of the paper .
The National Science Foundation in the US has clearly articulated <URL> for what constitutes a conflict of interest for reviewers of grant proposals . These are probably safe -- and certainly defensible -- guidelines for you to follow . Specifically ( and for the reason you mention ) , research collaborations are considered to be a conflict only if they occurred within the last 4 years ( there are other rules as well , please see the document ) .
In my opinion and experience , it is relatively rare for an MSc thesis to yield truly original research resulting in a paper . The primary goal of a MSc thesis is to teach you important research skills : come up with a general idea of what to do , researching literature , coming up with a specific question that you want to address , performing research ( computations , fieldwork , lab experiments ) , and finally writing it down in a thesis . If you successfully complete this cycle , I think your MSc thesis is a success . If the thesis , after some editing , is original enough to end up as a journal paper this is a big bonus .
Flagging as spam and deleting them is the right thing to do . Also , if they seem to be using the name of a legitimate researcher , warn that person . Anything else is a waste of your time . There is no organization that licenses scientific publication , nor is it clear such a thing is possible . Even if there was , it would likely make no difference : if we can not even limit the activity of <URL> , which are clearly illegal , how can we do any better against predatory publishers , who are often essentially the same thing in a more legitimate mask ?
end question
start question
What are alternatives to Journal of Theoretical Biology ?
Since your work is in game theory and population biology , do not forget Springer 's Journal of Theoretical Ecology . It 's a newer journal ( started in 2008 ) but already has an impact factor close to JTB , and has an open access option . Alan Hastings is the Editor in Chief of this journal ( you 'd have a hard time finding a more prominent figure in Theoretical Biology than him ) . Unfortunately most journals in the subject do n't have open access options ( e.g. Mathematical Biosciences , Mathematical Biosciences and Engineering , Ecological Modeling , Journal of Theoretical Population Biology , Journal of Theoretical Biology ) Also do n't forget Bio Journals , you can stick the more advanced math and proofs in an appendix , and often your work will get more exposure in these journals . I know Proceedings of the Royal Society Part B , the American Naturalist , Journal of Applied Ecology and PLoS BIO all have open access options and take modeling papers as long as the results are interesting from a biological perspective and are n't just a cool model that was fun to explore ( a good intro and discussion is key for these journals as they all have very high impact factors ) . If you prove things in your work also consider applied math journals like Nonlinear Dynamics ( Springer ) which has an open access option .
You will probably never know the full reason , because departments are not quick to air their internal issues with job candidates . But here are a few possible reasons : The search was halted by higher administration . One possible reason to do this so late in the process is because of funding changes ( e.g. the funding for the position disappeared or was reallocated elsewhere ) . The search was halted by the HR department due to some violation of hiring practices . The search committee was unable to come to an agreement about who to bring to campus for an interview , or the dean rejected all the candidates before they were interviewed . Although this is less likely , someone who had planned to retire might have decided not to retire , or someone from another department may have been moved into the department ( e.g. for legal reasons to settle a complaint ) .
Oftentimes , and that 's valid esp . for academia , a call will be better than an email . It 's really easy to oversee ( deliberate or not ) an email , but if you call , the editor ( or a secretary ) has to answer . And if you have someone on the line you can ask your questions directly and he has to answer or give you sme other sort of feedback . It 's annoying for a lot of us , since an email is easier , faster , you can better oversee what you 're writing and you do n't have to call someone and speak to him personally . But from an efficency point of view , a call is in most of the cases the best approach . Just ask polite , do n't make some sort of accusation or preasure somthing , but that are the same rules that apply for emails .
I tend to think that in most cases , the specialized/broad dichotomy is not very relevant . The most important point is to send it to an interested editor ; if the most relevant editor for a paper happens to be at a general journal , you will often be better of sending your paper there . I would consider two exceptions to this principle . First , top specialized journals are usually less reputed than top generalist journals , so if you get a truly impressive result , you may want to get the best of it by sending it to a top generalized journal . Second , some generalist journals will turn back papers that seems much more specialized than the average math paper ( e.g. when the basic objects you study are unheard of by most mathematicians ) .
From the viewpoint of the repository ( although , I am speaking primarily from the viewpoint of a university institutional repository ) , it would not be considered unethical or undesirable for authors to submit their work to more than one repository . Open repositories are built to increase access to the products of research and creativity , by making works publicly and freely available online . Submitting work to more than one repository is another way for an author to increase accessibility to his/her work . The only copyright issue present would lie in the relationship between the author and the publisher that published the author 's article . Most journals allow authors to deposit pre-prints of their work , that do not contain any edits or revisions from the publication process , in open repositories . Others allow authors to deposit pre-prints of their work that have been revised to show the revisions made in the publication process , and a few journals will allow authors to deposit the final publisher 's version of the article . Some publishers will want their authors to wait a few months after publication before making their works accessible through open repositories . Journals rely on the quality and originality of the articles they publish to build reputation . As most journals charge subscription fees , the originality of their articles is important . Open repositories do not operate on this model , so the ethics of publishing in journal do not translate to depositing your work in an open repository . Most repositories require their authors to sign a non-exclusive distribution license to deposit their work , which allows the repository to make the work accessible online . As a non-exclusive license , authors retain the right to submit their work to journals , other publications and other repositories . Different open repositories have different functions . Institutional repositories capture the research and creative outputs of their host institutions . Subject-based repositories capture the the work being done in a specific field . Because repositories exist for different reasons , I would see no problem in submitting your work to multiple repositories .
From a web developer perspective , the only issue I can see is compatibility . If the provided computer does not provide an HTML5-ready browser , the presentation may not work . Unfortunately , having been in labs and lectures with institution-provided computers , there is no guarantee that an IT department has provided the newest browser . While I 'd like to think that people , especially at institutions , are keeping their machines up to date , we have to assume that some machines have been forgotten or have not been maintained . <URL> demonstrates that IE8 , <URL> , is woefully prepared for any HTML5 feature . IE9 has some functionality over IE8 and appears to cover the audio/video portions you require , but only IE10 appears to be HTML5-ready as of last year . I tried the reveal.js demo on IE8 just now . The rotating transitions do n't work at all ( it acts like Powerpoint basically ) , but it was usable . Since there are no videos or audio , I ca n't test those , but a standard presentation would at least be doable even in that browser . It is unlikely that any IE9 - browsers will ever reach full HTML5 support due to the security risks and time drain required , so any attempt to present on an IE8 browser is likely to be bare-bones and equivalent to viewing a PowerPoint . However , this can be largely mitigated with the use of a PortableApp web browser such as <URL> . A small footprint that can be carried around in a flash drive with the presentation . From a student perspective , might appear to be more confusing if you share the files , as it probably is n't just a file , but a source document , the JS , and so on . You will probably need to provide a read-me for being able to view the presentation . I 'm sure everyone here knows how to open and view a PowerPoint , but some of us might stumble a bit with a more complex solution that may depend on multiple files and folders . That , and the student would need an HTML5 browser to get all the features working . You probably will also need to direct PDF copy of the slides because I did n't see any noticeable way to print the presentation unless the stylesheet natively does that from the print menu .
I think the best option is to set up your personal page and have your file hosted there . It is better to have your own independent site ( independent from your university ) in case you are to move to another university ( post-doc , faculty position , etc ) and can not host your file there anymore . Once you have the dissertation hosted somewhere , you can share it through social media sites like Facebook and LinkedIn . If that is not a possibility for you , another option would be to share it online in an open access database like Figshare ( <URL> ) . Note that you should double check guidelines from your university to ensure it is okay , and consider if you plan to publish your dissertation in a journal in the future ( some journals do not like it if the pre-prints are available elsewhere publicly ) . Here is an online post about why one decides to have dissertations hosted there . <URL>
An industrial case study is when you take your solutions or your processes , apply it to some situation in industry , and then report on the results . You might use the <URL> if what you propose can be appropriately investigated using a qualitative case study . This is appropriate if you 're in management sciences , human-computer interaction , and software engineering ( which is what the Damian paper referenced above is about ) . Note that industrial case studies of this type are VERY difficult to do and take an extremely long time to write up and report on , so I actually doubt the conference is looking for this kind of case study . Alternatively , in the field of Knowledge Discovery of Databases , an industrial case study may simply be applying your algorithm to a database that is used in industry to discover something novel or meaningful . This is more common for analytical fields in general and simply requires you to acquire a database or some other data source that was generated through industrial activity . The reason for " industrial case studies " is because a lot of people create methods and techniques and test it only with " fake laboratory data " that they happen to create or acquire . This fake laboratory data does n't reflect very accurately the real world and people want to see that techniques in fact work on , affect and influence the real world .
In my field the thinking is It draws attention to posters from conference participators . It provides encouragements to individuals ( students ) to make an extra effort It encourages discussion about " good poster design " The selection criteria is always focusing on good communication of good science , never one or the other . Since such awards are given only to students and there ids usually also a similar student presentation award both selected by a set of valued senior scientists , the award should be and is seen as a merit .
The answer ( as in case of most answers in academia.SE ) is it depends , often widely from case-to-case . Unless presented with an exceptional example , I would generally view having more than two advisers as a major hindrance - the perceived benefit of having another source of ideas is negated heavily by the communications overhead between them , and the scope for misunderstandings about their role , which might cause the student to be either overloaded in multiple ( possibly conflicting ) areas , or languishing without any significant guidance . The rest of my answer is based on the assumption that the number of advisers is 2 . What is the defined role of the said advisers - are they equally responsible for guiding the student towards completion of their graduate studies ( as I 've been told is the case in some European schools/research schools ) , or is one of them the principal guide and the other a co-guide ? The amount of time/effort invested by each would depend on their perception of how much they are actually responsible for the student 's growth as a researcher . As with most social interactions , it would help greatly if there is a good ( or at least professional ) working relationship between the 2 guides , as well as a healthy overlap of research areas - a new student might not be able to handle multiple research problems in completely different areas at the same time ( without affecting the time to graduate , or the quality of results ) . Assuming the student publishes with both of them independently , it would look good on her CV that she can produce publishable research with multiple established researchers . This could also have the side-effect of enhancing the student 's research network - as a lot of papers ( in CS at least ) have more than 2 authors , and often collaborating on an paper could lead to more papers/research done with the same set of persons in future .
My situation is different from yours , but analogous . I have observed a lot of academic discourse on MathOverflow , and even some on Math.stackexchange . I have registered for conferences online and participated , even without a current academic affiliation ( industry affiliation is good but not required : check with conference organizers and your employer ) . The real key is to find a group of people who will either a ) work with you remotely ( say by email ) or locally ( if you are lucky ) , or b ) willing to critique and perhaps mentor you in some arrangement , or c ) willing to spend a few minutes of time giving their opinion of what should happen , or d ) willing to tolerate occasional communication and friendly interaction , on a fairly infrequent basis . MathOverflow is a good way to start at d ) and work your way up the chain . Answer a few questions , post some good ( and I mean GOOD ) questions , and you will more quickly find online presence to develop a relationship which may be useful in real life . You can show your technical chops , sometimes get the fast track on research , and get a lot out of it , even some socializing . However , follow the FAQ : MathOverflow is not for discussion , ill-formed questions , or solving homework , and they are not prone to giving hints to graduate exercises , especially if it smells like asking them to do the work for you . There are also some reasons to prefer math.SE over MathOverflow for submitting questions , but I think doing well at the latter will be more beneficial for you . My impression ( but I could be wrong ) is that your question above would not go over well at MathOverflow , since it deals more with " sociology of math " than with math itself . It might be quicker to reach your goals by hanging out near a large Math department with free food , but I would bet cash money that the above is actually quicker . Good luck at MathOverflow . Once you get to b ) or a ) , you will find out other opportunities outside academia to help you with research .
There is no good reason to simply copy large portions of an existing publication to make a new . By rewriting everything , you have the opportunity to rephrase your thoughts and most likely produce a better paper , at least from a writing point of view . Some journals definietly look at plagiarism and in this case self-plagiarism and the only way to avoid it is to rewrite . I think the benefits of rewriting clearly outweighs the possible time-saving by just copy-pasting . Just to provide an example . I have written tens of papers about the same natural physical object that I have studied . In each paper , I have to provide a descritpion of the locality and characteristics and not once have this been copied . It is in fact interesting to see how many dofferent ways the same ( dull ) information can be conveyed . As for a percentage of new material , I really would advice against relying on a numbr . It is possible this is a silent understanding in some fields but in general , only new insights and conclusion should warrant a new publication . Another year of data or something similar to that is in itself not enough . The paper might be published but such publication strategies are not looked upon favourably in the long term . So , I strongly recomend rewriting each paper and not rely on copy-pasting . I am convinced you will develop as an author and also generate better papers by doing so . consider each paper a separate new entity .
I find it very helpful to write a grading rubric . It includes how many points I give for each part of each problem . I also include how many points of partial credit I give for various common errors . Typically , my key consists of a worked copy of the exam , and I make notes about each question on the actual exam . Generally , my rubric gets more detailed as I grade , since it 's only then that I learn what are the common mistakes . If I feel that I 'm taking too long grading , I 'll often start timing myself . Maybe I get at most 30 second per question ( often less ) . This is n't a hard rule , but it helps me know what to aim for . ( Recently I just graded a calculus exam , so most of the problems were pretty quick to grade . ) Your mileage will vary from one subject to another .
Yes , there are some <URL> . Scantron 's software and hardware is proprietary .
The relevant concept here is <URL> which means that a concept has been sufficiently realized to make it believable . Where , exactly , this bar lies depends on which field and which country you are dealing with . The United States , for example , used to have much stronger requirements for working models , but has recently introduced a notion of " preliminary filing " which lets one start the patent process before demonstrating a working model . In some cases , particularly mechanical devices , the device ( <URL> ) might never actually have to be demonstrated in action . In others , such as many types of biological invention , the science is considered so unpredictable that you can not be considered to have reduced the idea to practice unless you have an actual working example . For your particular question of computational material design , I do not know where the boundary of " reduction to practice " currently lies . It is likely to be field-dependent ( e.g. , is this a mechanical macrostructure like a fabric , a simple atomic structure like a new alloy of steel , or a complex organic structure like a protein agglomerate ) , will depend on jurisdiction , and is likely to move again in the future as patent offices slowly come to accept the validity of more classes of models . Thus , the overall answer is " it depends " and " talk to a patent lawyer . "
Generally , when a paper is submitted to a journal it is first assigned an editor . The editor then identifies a qualified outside reviewer for that particular manuscript , and invites him/her to review the paper . So the answer is : No , you should not expect that the possible reviewers of a paper are selected from among the members of the editorial board .
When an article is technically wrong , describes things that have been done dozens of times elsewhere or is just awfully written , then I recommend rejection , no matter the journal . After that , journal guidelines ( not the perceived or actual journal " quality " ) come into play : Match with the journal 's scope Journal requirements on novelty of ideas ( several journals are ok with articles that fill some gap in an otherwise well-understood field , but some very high-profile journals would like to see papers with significant novelty ) Methodological requirements ( e.g. some journals require that simulation results are validated against analytic results or measurement results ) So , there is some baseline , but afterwards it depends on the journal scope .
This is a question best answered by the admissions officers at the programs to which you want to apply . They will generally have recommendations as to which test they would prefer you to take . If there 's a consensus that one of the tests is preferable to the other , that 's the one that you should take . ( My particular sense on this is that Cell/Biochemistry is probably closer to what is expected for people in Computational Biology than the more general Biology exam . However , I am not a bio person , so I 'm not speaking from a position of authority here . )
Open positions in journal editorial boards are frequently not advertised ( though that happens ) . Instead , when a vacancy appears , the chief editor will typically look for people with the required expertise and ask them whether they would be willing to serve . Often , editors will have different specialties . So an editor who is stepping down would need to be replaced in his specific area of expertise . Given that he is an expert and should have a good overview of his specific field , he will most likely be asked to suggest possible replacements . Chief editors will usually be " elevated " from among the non-chief editors , since these already know the journal and its specifics . So , how to go about to be invited as an editor ? Two things : Build a reputation as an expert in a specific field . Submit good quality papers to the journal you are most interested in ( and others ) , go to conferences etc. . Build a reputation as dependable and articulate . Hand in reviews promptly , and write good reviews . Editors remember people who write good reviews . Of course , this is not a guarantee of being asked for an editorship .
There are certainly papers citing patents , mostly in engineering fields . So , yes it is certainly OK to cite a patent . Now patents have an entirely different purpose than scientific articles . They usually contain detailed descriptions of methods and devices and ( sometimes wild ) speculations about practical applications of these . Useful to protect potential commercial use , but not really to scientists wanting to build on existing knowledge . More specifically , what they typically do n't contain are original experimental data , or other means of scientifically evaluating the described methods or devices . Very often , if the development of the patented method or device has led to scientific discoveries , these have been published separately as articles ( or conference proceedings for the fields where that applies ) . Those will be much more scientifically informative , and hence more likely to be cited in academic articles .
end question
start question
My essay has been plagarized in a journal article - what to do ?
Contact the editor of the journal , present your suspicions , and be prepared to submit evidence supporting your claim .
Papers published in ( reputable ) journals are reviewed by other scientists ( peer review ) , which usually makes it considerably more difficult to publish a paper there . By contrast papers on the ArXiv only receive a brief inspection to keep out utter crap . Thus , most academic evaluations consider only peer-reviewed publications or value them considerably higher . Moreover , often only peer-reviewed papers are considered citable , in particular for purposes of backing up your claims . This may extend to papers that are considered certain to be eventually peer-reviewed  , but this is unlikely to apply to your paper . As being cited ( by peer-reviewed papers ) is another important academic evaluation metric , this is another advantageous aspect of journal publications . As a sidenote : There are a lot of physics journals where you can publish without a fee .  in particular in fast-moving fields or fields with long peer review such as parts of mathematics
Allow me to hypothesize a different tack from most of the other answers : Simply do n't engage in this issue at all . As my mentor said once , " You constantly get institutional demands for some action , in some cases it 's best to ignore them , and you 'll find that many just go away . " This request is so incredibly unethical , and also so completely orthogonal to your responsibilities as a graduate student , that it 's hard for me to imagine your advisor spending time on tracking you down and taking revenge over it . If you think you might receive more pressure later on ( e.g. , I 've sadly cracked under such circumstances ) , go ahead and cast the online vote in the privacy of your own home , and then later on say , " Oh sorry , I got a notification and cast the vote immediately . " The request is so inflammatory that I do n't see any use to " politely having an open discussion with your advisor " . I think that only opens the door for defensiveness and retaliation . As wildly unacceptable as it is , I do n't see it as being a good use of your time tracking down where to lodge a complaint over this matter ( which your advisor seems canny enough to avoid documenting except verbally , so it would be just your word against his , according to comments above ) . At least consider the null action as a possibility .
I do n't know of any journal that one could expect to accept " I do n't like your journal any more " as a legitimate reason for retraction : a good journal would probably just scoff at you , while a crappy or predatory journal is unlikely to meaningfully respond to any request for retraction , no matter how legitimate . Therefore , I do n't think you should try to retract it , but simply to drown out your early mistakes over time with subsequent good work . As for whether to leave it on your CV : If you have reason to believe that this journal is a sham that does not actually peer review , then I think that @NateEldredge is right : you can leave it off of your CV entirely or ( better ) , move it to a section on published non-peer-reviewed work , much as you would list an arXiv publication . If the journal is simply crappy , however , I think you 're stuck with it . You really did publish there , and no matter how crappy , it 's still an archived journal publication .
Feel free to edit this answer to improve it , in particular to add other names you know to be used for the individual steps or to extend the maximum typical durations from your experience . The source for the diagram can be found <URL> . Overview <URL> Initial Check This step is usually performed by the non-scientific staff of the journal . It may include for example : Checking for broken files . Checking compliance with length requirements , if any . Checking central formatting requirements , e.g. , line numbers , if required by the journal . A plagiarism check . Excluding manuscripts of very low quality , such as automatic translations . Also known as : technical check , initial QC ( AIP ) , admin checklist ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays . Editor assignment or invitation Based on the topic of the manuscript and suggestions by the authors , an editor is assigned to handle the manuscript . Depending on the journal , the assignment may be done by technical staff , the journal 's chief editor , or automatic by submission category or author suggestion . With some journals , editors are invited and not assigned . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , editor assigned ( Editorial Manager , AIP ) , AE assignment ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays to several weeks . Editorial assessment The editors decide whether the paper should enter the review process or should be rejected directly , e.g. , because it does not fit the journal 's scope or requirements on importance or quality . A rejection at this stage is called desk reject . The paper may also be returned to the authors for reasons other than rejection . With revised manuscripts , the editors assess whether the existing reviews have been addressed adequately . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , waiting for potential reviewer assignment ( AIP ) , under review ( <URL> ) Typical duration : This strongly depends on the journal : With some journals , it is less than a week ; with others it may take a month , in particular if several people are involved in the decision or the initial quality hurdle is high . Peer review The editor selects a number of potential referees to review the manuscript . Should a referee decline to review or not perform the review in a certain time ( as given by the editor or journal ) , the editor usually has to select a new referee . The main exception to this is if the other referees already provided sufficient reviews at this point . With revised manuscripts , usually the reviewers from the previous round are selected . The editor may also decide that certain or all reviewers need not see the manuscript again , as their comments have been adequately addressed . Also known as : with reviewers , with referees , under review , awaiting referee assignment , awaiting referee reports , awaiting reviewer scores ( <URL> ) , reviewers assigned The initial selection of referees is usually comprised in the previous step . Some editorial systems give the status as with editors ( or similar ) if a new referee needs to be assigned and no other referee is currently assigned . Typical duration : This strongly depends on the field and journal . It typically ranges <URL> , but in some cases ( particularly for highly theoretical work where intense proof-checking is expected ) , it may be as long as one to two years . Moreover , the key factors for the duration of an individual peer-review process are how soon the reviewers find time to perform the review and how many reviewers decline or fail to review the manuscript . Thus , even for a given journal , there is a strong variation of review durations . Some journals give their statistics on this time ( or a related one ) on their webpage . Editorial decision Based on the reviews , the editors decide whether : The manuscript shall be rejected . The manuscript needs to be revised by the authors before it can possibly be accepted . If the authors submit a revised manuscript , the workflow is mostly the same as for the initial submission . The manuscript shall be accepted as it is . A decision requires further reviews . Also known as with editors ( APS ) , review completed , required reviews completed ( <URL> ) , <URL> , awaiting EiC decision ( IEEE ) , Editor Decision Started ( AIP ) Typical duration : A few workdays to a week . This may take longer with some journals , in particular if several people are involved in the decision . Copy editing and typesetting The article is copy-edited and typeset by the publisher . Occasionally , requests to the authors may occur at this stage , e.g. , due to low-quality figures . For some journals , a pre-copy-editing version of the manuscript will be put online at this point under a category like Just Accepted , with a warning that the current version has not yet been copy-edited and may change further before publication . Also known as : in production , in press Typical duration : This mostly depends on the publisher 's backlog . Usually between a few workdays to over a year , roughly correlated with the length of the publication delay ( see below ) . Final
The Journal of Advances in Mathematics and its publisher are mentioned in <URL> at Scholarly Open Access . The post explains why the post 's author , Jeffrey Beall , believes that the journal and its publisher are not legitimate .
Usually depositing a paper in arXiv prior to journal submission does count as a preprint . Wikipedia explicitly says so ... here 's the wiki link : <URL> . You can check out this list of journals with preprint policy : <URL> If you posted your paper in arXiv before submitting to the journal , do inform the journal ( include the link to your paper in arXiv ) . From your post , it seems that your journal does not have such a tight preprint policy .
Warning : personal opinion . I view conferences that regularly shift submission deadlines as a little suspect . You 're right that this happens in CS conferences , and it soon becomes pointless because everyone expects the extension ( " <URL> " ) . But your estimate of 80 % is rather off . Almost none of the ( many ) conferences I submit to have deadline extensions for submission of the full paper . And do n't underestimate the level of pleading that goes on . People will always ask for an extension if they have even a smidgen of hope that the pleading will work . It 's only when a conference takes a firm stand for many years that people stop asking .
Yes . A review is normally a job performed by somebody at the request of a journal editor for your benefit . Hence the review is not yours per se to do as you please although you have received it to improve your manuscript . The review is basically a communication between two persons , albeit through an intermediary . Thus posting somebody 's comments without asking for permission is similar to publishing somebody 's private letters online without asking . It is not strictly illegal as I can see it but it is inappropriate . If reviews are done in an open system , they are public and then the problem is a non-issue . Such reviews , if one wants to couple them to a paper or manuscript online , can , and probably should , be linked anyway . As a side point , some journals only allow you to post pre-review versions of your manuscripts online . Revised manuscripts then involve the journal 's " services " and are apparently seen as covered by the publisher 's copyright rules , at least until they are rejected . This is not something I find appealing , it is just the case and one needs to take a close look to the agreement entered when submitting a manuscript .
Ca n't you look at author biographies from other papers in that journal ?
Without additional details , it will be impossible to provide very detailed answers so from a general point , each case has its own solutions . The first question I would ask is , what is my part in this and how can I best help out ( best may be = nothing ) . In general I would try to help out as much as I can unless the problem lies in the realm of a conflict or personal problems . Then there is not much you can do except suggest professional help . If the candidate is a good student then I would certainly support with any letter of recommendation I could . Since you mention morale issues in the group , it suggests some form of non-trivial problem . In some cases too much help makes people fall into a false sense of security so to be shaken can be useful as long as the reasons are very clear . So without trying to read too much into what is between the lines , I think the degree of help depends on to what extent help can or should be given ( seen from an objective point ) . Probably not the most satisfactory answer but being responsible for the research education at my dept. , I have seen how difficult these matters can be . In our case , I would also be a resource to help out , if nothing else just to discuss the matter . ( This does not mean I run a research group completely without problems myself ! )
I would thank him in the acknowledgments . Although there is no set standard for what is required to be an author , it is generally accepted that they must make a research contribution . Proofreading definitely does n't meet that criterion ( or any of the other criteria that I have seen ) . I did this in one of my recent papers . I just said : We would also like to thank Bob Bob for his helpful feedback on a draft of the paper .
DOI 's are managed by Crossref.org . For each DOI , Crossref 's database has a redirect to the current location of that digital object , and the owners can move things around and update the Crossref database as needed . When you follow a link to <URL> ... , the crossref servers redirect this request to the current location of that paper . As mentioned in another answer you can lookup an article in the crossref.org database to see whether or not it has a DOI . Recent articles have typically been assigned a DOI by the publisher , and most publishers put the DOI on the title page of the paper so it 's easy to find that way . Older articles were originally published without a DOI , but the publisher may have assigned one after the fact . If the publisher has not already assigned a DOI , then JSTOR may have assigned a DOI to the article that will point to the copy of the article in the JSTOR database . This is a service offered to publishers by JSTOR , but not all publishers use it . Thus not all articles in JSTOR have DOI 's . It appears that the article you linked to has not been assigned a DOI by either its original publisher or JSTOR and thus has no DOI . I ca n't find the article in the crossref database . The " stable URL " that you linked to is probably the best way to link to the article .
Nope , and I doubt anyone would notice or care . Everyone can be a member , all it takes is a bit of money .
Reviews are communications to the editor , and an effective review tells the editor what the article is about ( in that reviewer 's opinion ) , using significantly fewer words than authors typically use . If an editor has to process a couple hundred submissions per year , it 's not possible for him/her to carefully read every paper , so the editor will especially care if the reviewers agree on what the paper purports to show and whether the paper actually shows it .
Is it possible that you misjudge why your advisor wants to see the other prof. on the paper ? You say that the reason is that he was " declared as my second adviser on the project " ... but then you go on to explain that he actually was part of the discussions leading to the paper , so it does not , or at least not entirely , sound like a courtesy co-authorship to me . Of course , you ( and maybe even your advisor ) do not value the input he had , but unilaterally throwing him off the paper for this reason is a dangerous road to go down . If he had any part in actually doing the research or writing the paper , I would at least talk to the guy first and ask him whether he thinks that he contributed enough to become an author . However , prepare that there is a non-zero chance that the answer to this question will be " sure , I advised you regularly on the project since it 's start , why would n't I be a co-author ?? " ( and mean it ! ) . Decide in advance how you will react to this . Note that , if the prof. feels this way , there is likely no way to remove him from the paper without him being annoyed or worse . Your task then becomes to decide whether you want to add him to the paper purely to keep relations intact ( or not ) .
As an instructor , the best you can do is to offer your condolences and tell him to just ask you if he needs anything . For example , you could offer an extension on assignments . If he needs some time off from lectures , maybe a classmate who takes good lecture notes will agree to make a photocopy , or you could get the lectures to be recorded for him . Your university might also have a policy that allows students to withdraw from the course and receive a refund of fees without penalty to grades : it would be worth finding this out and advising your student if this is possible . Depending on the severity of the illness and how much it is affecting your student , he might wish to take fewer ( or zero ) courses for a while . If the course is nearly finished , perhaps an aegrotat ( compassionate consideration ) will be applicable to the final exam . But neither an illness in the family , nor a bereavement or any personal physical or mental health issue can excuse a student from having to learn the material and complete assessments in order to pass a course . He will still have to demonstrate mastery of most of the material . Just be compassionate , and as flexible as you feasibly can . Nobody could ask for more .
If you were asked to re-review an " unchanged " manuscript there are a number of things you can do ( e.g. , <URL> ) . The issue is that this is not the case . You are no longer part of the review process . The first thing you should do is STOP . The behavior you have engaged in so far has been completely unethical and a clear violation of every reviewer agreement I have ever seen . Your colleague should never have told you about the paper under review . You should not have mention that you reviewed a similar paper in the past . Neither of you should have mentioned authors or the title . The actual manuscripts should never have been shared and/or compared To a lesser extent , it is not even clear why you still have your copy of the manuscript . The Committee on Publication Ethics ( COPE ) provides <URL> which can be thought of as best practice . These include : respect the confidentiality of peer review and not reveal any details of a manuscript or its review , during or after the peer-review process , beyond those that are released by the journal not involve anyone else in the review of a manuscript , including junior researchers they are mentoring , without first obtaining permission from the journal ; the names of any individuals who have helped them with the review should be included with the returned review so that they are associated with the manuscript in the journal 's records and can also receive due credit for their efforts . keep all manuscript and review details confidential .
I 'd recommend waiting a week or two to see whether you get a response to your withdrawal . At this stage it ca n't be urgent to resubmit immediately , and having their reply would guarantee that they are aware that you have withdrawn the paper . ( By contrast , I do n't think an e-mail read receipt means much . For all you know , an administrative assistant opened the e-mail and then mistakenly deleted it without realizing what it said . ) I would n't go so far as to say you are required to wait for a response , but better safe than sorry . I think you 've got a much bigger issue to worry about , though , and that 's why you withdrew the paper after acceptance . At least in mathematics , withdrawing an accepted paper is extremely unusual . To a first approximation , it typically means there 's something seriously wrong with either the paper or the journal . You can certainly do it , but given the effort that has gone into handling and refereeing the paper , you will cause offense if you do n't have a very good reason . If you inadvertently submitted the paper to a junk or predatory journal , then you do n't need to worry about causing offense . ( Offending the editors of predatory journals is not a bad thing . ) In that case , withdrawing the paper is certainly the right decision . If you dreadfully screwed up in your choice of journal , for example by submitting a brilliant breakthrough to a respectable but not impressive journal without realizing how good the paper was , then you should apologize profusely for wasting everyone 's time . Hopefully they 'll understand that it was a genuine mistake on your part , and they 'll sympathize with the awkward position you are in and give their blessing to resubmitting elsewhere . If the paper is seriously flawed , then that 's a respectable reason to withdraw it . You might look bad for having submitted it , but then again , the referee did n't find the mistake either . But this is n't a compelling reason to submit elsewhere soon : if you do n't check whether the original journal is willing to publish the revised paper , then it looks like the changes were just an excuse to withdraw the paper . Under normal circumstances , it will cause offense if people think you are withdrawing an accepted paper just to try your luck at a more prestigious journal . In particular , this is a dangerous impression to leave if you ever hope to submit to this journal again . As an editor , I would certainly not be happy to see a new submission from an author who had previously withdrawn an accepted paper without a compelling excuse . All this gives you another reason to move slowly and wait for a reply . If you have a good reason for withdrawal , then it 's worth making sure you have communicated it clearly . In any case , you are doing something rather unusual and serious , and it 's best not to give the impression you are treating it lightly or casually .
There is no good reason to simply copy large portions of an existing publication to make a new . By rewriting everything , you have the opportunity to rephrase your thoughts and most likely produce a better paper , at least from a writing point of view . Some journals definietly look at plagiarism and in this case self-plagiarism and the only way to avoid it is to rewrite . I think the benefits of rewriting clearly outweighs the possible time-saving by just copy-pasting . Just to provide an example . I have written tens of papers about the same natural physical object that I have studied . In each paper , I have to provide a descritpion of the locality and characteristics and not once have this been copied . It is in fact interesting to see how many dofferent ways the same ( dull ) information can be conveyed . As for a percentage of new material , I really would advice against relying on a numbr . It is possible this is a silent understanding in some fields but in general , only new insights and conclusion should warrant a new publication . Another year of data or something similar to that is in itself not enough . The paper might be published but such publication strategies are not looked upon favourably in the long term . So , I strongly recomend rewriting each paper and not rely on copy-pasting . I am convinced you will develop as an author and also generate better papers by doing so . consider each paper a separate new entity .
end question
start question
Convention to denote author who left the research group ?
From your question , I am concerned that you have not talked to the " author " about the manuscript . You must get permission from all authors prior to submitting a manuscript . It is not acceptable to submit a manuscript without permission from all authors nor is it acceptable to leave an author off just because they have left the group . As for what is acceptable for an email address and affiliation , almost anything goes ( as long as it is not misleading ) . I personally think universities and research groups should give permanent forwarding addresses to eliminate/reduce these issues . In terms of the affliation , you should also ask the author . It is not uncommon to list an affiliation as the company/university where the work was done and provide a new corresponding address . As for email , it is common to list only the current address . This might be a new corporate email address , assuming it is appropriate . If not , a personal email or a new personal/professional email address is fine . Again , just ask the author and do what they want .
My answer is similar to but slightly different from <URL> , but gives more meaningful context about this company 's contribution and why you are thankful to them . I am indebted to [ COMPANY ] and their managers and employees for serving as host and advisers to me for five months as I performed the core of my research . In particular , I would like to thank [ NAME ] , who graciously tutored me about [ TOPICS ] which enabled me to [ CONTRIBUTION ] . I would also like to thank [ NAME ] , [ NAME ] , AND [ NAME ] , who provided feedback and guidance along the way . You should list first and last names for each person , including titles if they have a PhD or are a medical doctor : " John Jones , PhD " or " Dr. John Jones " .
Assuming that you 're not in a field where it 's " strictly alphabetical order " ( like economics ) , the question of which position is more important depends on what stage of your career you 're in . If you are a beginning academic -- a PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow -- then the first-author publications are most important , as these will show you taking an active and leading role in your research . As you move up the chain , however , and reach more senior positions , having the last-author credit becomes more important , as now you 're showing your leadership role in directing projects . You do n't want to be stuck in the trap of being a " junior " partner in research collaborations , with the senior PI getting all of the credit for the work .
Regardless of political considerations , the answer to your question is that publishing companies are collecting the revenue from subscriptions and individual article sales . Some publishers are commercial operations , some are non-profit ( such as the <URL> ) . The price you pay at this time is related only to the publishing process ( organization of submission process and peer-review , typesetting , archival strategies , printing , administration , etc. ) and all other aspects of a commercial company including , of course , a margin . Some people have strong opinions about what this margin should be . The actual research is paid for by other means , including government grants , university salaries , non-profit and foundation grants , funding from commercial companies , etc. . If you had to pay for the actual research behind a given paper , chances are it would cost you something closer to 30k $ . There are various other business models for publishing , some where the whole process is paid for by an institution , and is thus free for both authors and readers , some where authors have to pay to publish , etc. . There are important aspects in keeping money out of the editorial board - publisher - reviewers - authors relationship , because it reduces the risk of conflicts of interest ( although author-pay open-access advocates think otherwise ) . Options to obtain scientific papers without paying ( yourself ) include : going to the library of your local institution , checking out <URL> and <URL> or ultimately , contacting the authors to obtain electronic copies . More on that subject in <URL> .
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
There was a similar case in 1975 , when an American mathematician and physicist , Professor Jack H. Hetherington of Michigan State University , added his cat as a co-author . Apparently , a collegaue who had reviewed his manuscript , had pointed out that he had used " we " and " us " throughout the manuscript , but this was incorrect as he was the sole author . so , instead of typing out the entire document once again ( those were the days before Ctrl H ) , he decided to speed up the process and added the name of Chester , his pet cat as a co-author . However , to disguise the fact , he put " FDC Willard " as the name , with FD standing for " felix domesticus " and the C for " Chester . " And Willard was the name of Chester 's father . However , these days , with so many regulations in place , I 'm not sure if it would be ethical to include your baby 's name . If however , you choose to do so , I would suggest you inform the editor and mention this in a disclaimer somewhere within the title page , so that readers are not misled about your intent . Another well known case is the paper " In a fully H-2 incompatible chimera , T cells of donor origin can respond to minor histocompatibility antigens in association with either donor or host H-2 type . " by Polly Matzinger and Galadriel Mirkwood in The Journal of Experimental Medicine , 1978 . As Ted Anton described it in his book Bold Science , " Refusing to write in the usual scientific passive voice ( ' steps were taken ' ) and too insecure to write in the first person ( ' I took the steps ' ) , she instead invented a coauthor " : her Afghan Hound , Galadriel Mirkwood . Once discovered , papers on which she was a major author were then barred from the journal until the editor died and was replaced by another .
Unfortunately , history has already forced this question upon us , and the answers are not entirely clear . The Nazis inflicted widespread and breathtakingly <URL> on their victims during the Holocaust . These yielded quite a bit of medical data , that some want to unearth and apply today . This has ignited quite a bit of debate on the ethics of using this most obviously and supremely unethical research . The science may be dubious as well , given the circumstances under which it was performed . An excellent discussion of the dilemma may be found in the article <URL> by Baruch Cohen . In essence , Cohen argues that in certain extreme cases it may be possible to use the data , but only when accompanied by strong condemnation of the methods and only when it concerns information that is both otherwise impossible to obtain and of life-saving importance . Nazi medicine is an extreme case , but <URL> , and the judgement of history and science on these studies contains less uniform condemnation than we might like . The modern consensus , however , seems to be that except in very unusual circumstances , unethical studies should not be rewarded in any way by recognition .
It has to be a conference with a rebuttal phase , where the authors can answer the main points raised by the reviewers , who in turn will be able to draw more conclusive remarks on the paper itself see also here : <URL>
Many ( most ? ) academic papers include a brief acknowledgment section somewhere ( the location is not standard ) . In this section it is frequent to acknowledge help by the referees . One can equally well acknowledge comments by referees of previous versions of the paper . For the sake of clarity it seems best to mention that one is thanking the referee of the previous version . E.g. if I were refereeing the new version , reading We are grateful for the help provided by the referee . is ambiguous : does this refer to a previous referee , or am I being thanked in advance for my help ? ( That 's not so good . ) Clearer would be something like This version of the paper takes into account helpful comments provided by the ( or " a " ) referee of a previous version . If the paper gets accepted in the second journal , one could change to something like We are grateful for helpful comments from multiple referees on several versions of the paper . Is it academically necessary ? I 'm not sure it 's ever strictly necessary to acknowledge an anonymous referee -- it seems to me that a situation in which it 's vitally necessary to acknowledge someone is a situation in which an anonymous acknowledgment would be insufficient . ( Moreover , the way I have always understood it is that referee comments are " being given " to the authors of the paper . ) If you feel that a referee 's contributions merit coauthorship , ( take a deep breath first ; this opens a can of worms ) you should discuss that with the editor . However , if you got direct intellectual help from the referee and not just helpful remarks -- i.e. , if the referee contributed some part of the intellectual content of the paper -- then I would certainly recommend documenting that rather than assuming the credit for yourself .
It seems to me that the ethics here really relate to the foundation upon which you will build . Conducting additional research and writing additional papers is not problematic in itself , but if you must use materials , data , and ideas from informal conversations then you have ethical and/or practical considerations . If you have never met the other researchers and have just read some papers , found it interesting , and then they stopped publishing , I do n't see how you would have any obligation to those researchers . This is academic life - we build on the work of others . In fact , you might say we have an ethical obligation to advance the field . Coming from this perspective , what is acceptable with respect to the foundational elements would be governed by the normal rules . So here are some examples : Data : If you need actual ( generally unpublished ) data from the other researcher ( s ) then you will have to ask for the data and have their permission to publish that data . You should acknowledge the source of that data in any related publications . Materials : If you need code or study materials , you will have to ask for it as well and you will be bound by any relevant licensing restrictions . Again , this should be acknowledged . Ideas : If you are building on informal conversations with previous researchers , then you should seek their permission and acknowledge that as well . This is about not losing friends , unless you are under NDA , in which case it may be a legal matter as well . There may also be cases in which your reputation and friendships may be at stake , for example if you publish research that competes with that of your old advisor . This should not generally be a big concern with projects that are abandoned . If in doubt , you should probably communicate your intentions and seek their blessings . In many cases , particularly if others have given advice , it may be a good idea to ask if they want to be involved as a coauthor . A researcher who has had to stop doing their research , perhaps due to lost funding or changes in their employment , may be excited at the opportunity to help advance the field while improving their own CV , by just providing some past data and helping with some writing . The most important thing is to be sure to always give credit where it is due .
The gold standard is blind , independent replication . However , this almost never happens because it costs a similar amount ( of materials and time ) and there is less benefit to the researcher who repeats the experiments , so there is little incentive . Next down would be independent replication by another group , then replication within the same group . The bare minimum is that the experiment be described in sufficient detail to be reproduced . For example , the ' Instructions to Authors ' in the Journal of Infection and Immunity ( which is fairly typical ) states : the Materials and Methods section should include sufficient technical information to allow the experiments to be repeated . Reproducibility is one of the most important issues when describing or reviewing a scientific paper ( <URL> ) . Knowing that a result is less likely to be attributable to a chance combination of uncontrolled parameters , or a mistake on behalf of the scientist conducting the experiment or recording the experimental conditions , increases confidence that the result seen is a ' genuine ' phenomenon . As Karl Popper , the founder of the scientific method , put it : Non-reproducible single occurrences are of no significance to science . ( Popper 1959 , The logic of scientific discovery . Hutchinson , London , United Kingdom . ) Unfortunately , most journals place a high premium on novelty and therefore it is more difficult to publish reproductions of previous studies , and when these are published they are often in less important journals . Funders , similarly , direct reviewers to score grant applications based , amongst other things , on novelty . This greatly reduces the incentive to replicate published studies - if you ca n't get funding to do something and you would n't be able to publish it anyway , it wo n't get done . Two other major and common obstacles to independent validation are : that it requires the involvement of another lab with the same resources and skills , which might be very rare ; For experiments involving animals specifically , there is an ethical requirement to <URL> . The lack of reproducibility of experiments is a problem in most areas of science and awareness of this is growing . In 2012 this prompted the <URL> , where researchers can pay a fee for blind , independent replication prior to publication . <URL> This sounded like a step in the right direction at the time but as far as I know awareness of the initiative remains fairly low , uptake has not been great and ' proper ' reproduction remains very rare indeed .
Enthusiasm : Students in a lab should get the feeling that the professor is someone who shows as much interest and puts in as much hard work in the project as themselves . The professor may have a lot of credentials and experience , but his enthusiasm level must be the same as that of his students . Emotional management : Sometime there could be students who lose their focus on research ; at others , there could be slight rifts and differences in opinion between the professor and student because of their approach to the problem . There may also be problems within the students which could be distasteful . The professor must be mindful of these , try his best to ameliorate the situation and not let things go out of hand . Without getting smarmily personal , the professor must manage his lab as though it were his second family . Ensuring good placement : Placement is not an indicator of research , but in reality , people use this record to gauge a lab 's quality . The professor must build contacts and be willing to counsel and recommend their students to good places ( each according to his ability , etc ) . Good Results : The most important point . If students must feel a " sense of achievement from simply being part of the lab " , then the output from the lab should be sensational . This involves a lot of man-management ; knowing what each student is good at and how to get the best out of each one of them . Finally , though it may sound cliched , hard work is the key to good results .
I am presuming this is a coursework assignment . If you 're that tight for space , are you sure you have n't written too much ? Be careful that your finished piece does n't " feel " cramped . The Nature journal uses superscript numbers for in-text citations1 and then references them in the bibliography like so : Hynek , B. M. Implications for hydrologic processes on Mars from extensive bedrock outcrops throughout Terra Meridiani . Nature 431 , 156 -- 159 ( 2004 ) .
The answer is strongly conditional on discipline and , to a lesser extent , country of origin . Conventions vary widely , as does the degree to which they are institutionalized . For instance , in some fields ( e.g. , Philosophy ) , co-authorship is not common and there is no convention about attribution , so absent an explicit note people are are likely to think the more senior author is the primary one . In Sociology , co-authorship is common and the convention is that the first author is the lead author unless there is a note indicating equal authorship . In Economics , co-authorship has become increasingly common over the past few decades but the convention is to list authors alphabetically , regardless of degree of contribution . In some fields the primary author may be determined by looking to see if there 's a note specifying to whom correspondence should be directed , regardless of order of authorship on the paper . Meanwhile in many lab-based science disciplines , where it 's sole authorship that 's rare , author order is governed by different norms . In some fields , the first author is the one who is primarily responsible for the paper ( what that means can vary , too ) , the last author is the lab head or primary grant-holder , and the order of authors in between is sometimes influenced by other norms . But other conventions exist , too . Knowing what they are and how to interpret them is part of one 's socialization into a discipline . To make things more complicated , some fields -- or some journals , or some labs , or some individual authors -- may have their own rules or conventions designed to clarify things by listing credit more explicitly . Even worse , there may be a kind of hermeneutics of author-order where people parcel out credit to different contributors regardless of order of authorship , as when someone says " Sure , X is the first author and Y helped him write it up but it 's obvious the paper was Z 's idea " . In your case , if your lab or unit is using a convention that 's not standard in your field the most straightforward solution is to make a note of this in your articles . This is n't an ideal solution because papers will still be cited or referenced without people paying attention to your clarifying note , but there is n't much you can do about that .
I have just checked that changing authors when replacing a paper is technically enabled . I am pretty sure I have seen this happen : those with more searching savvy than I will surely turn up with actual examples . And yes , the arxiv maintains all previous postings and their authorship . I do n't see any ethical problems with what you propose . But I 'm not sure I understand the message that you 're seeking to convey : are you saying that you attach some meaning to an initial posting by your student only followed by a replacement jointly authored with you ? To me that does not have a clear meaning ( and by the way , some people will look at the first posting and many wo n't ) . If anything , that would look to me like you realized that what your student uploaded was not satisfactory , so you stepped in to salvage the situation . If that 's not what you 're going for , maybe do n't do this . Why not just upload a jointly authored posting the first time around ?
You should be able to put both affiliations on . I assume you are permanently employed , in which case that is more permanent than the academic address . However , if your published work is done as part of your schooong you should put that affiliation first , perhaps listing your job affiliation/address as " permanent " or something describing your employment . The reason for putting your academic affiliation first is that it is within that you have done the work and probably received intellectual coaching and support ( if you receive similar input also from work then that affiliation might be equally valid as first ) . Listing two affiliations is common and the reason is typically when people move between institutes and it is important to keep readers aware of one whereabouts in such circumstances . In your case you will likely be found at your company in the future ( my assumption ) and it therefore makes sense to list also that .
Allow me to strongly disagree with eykanal 's answer . There is no universal standard . You must ask your advisor in advance what her coauthorship policy is . In theoretical computer science ( and mathematics ) , it is generally considered unethical to list someone as a co-author who has not made a novel and significant intellectual contribution to the paper . In particular , merely funding the research is not considered an intellectual contribution . Adding a supervisor 's name to a paper to which they have not directly , intellectually contributed is lying . In practice , writing a good grant proposal requires at least as much intellectual novelty as writing a good paper . Most of the good ideas that PIs pour into their proposals also appear in papers ; as long as those ideas constitute novel intellectual contributions , the PI merits co-authorship . But that only works once per idea ; once an idea has been published , it 's no longer novel , by definition . To be specific and personal : I am not a coauthor on all of my PhD students ' papers . ( Of course , I still report my students ' independent work back to NSF as outcomes on whatever grants supported them . So I still get credit from NSF for having the foresight to fund the student . ) The same is true of all the other theoretical computer science faculty in my department . My PhD advisor is a co-author on only one of the papers I published as a PhD student . My PhD advisor does n't have a single co-authored paper with his advisor .
My answer , item by item : I think that there is a difference if this is yet another postdoc or your only postdoc . But most important , we should pay attention to the ratio postdoc/permanent researchers . If the ratio is low ( few postdoc , lot of permanent researchers ) , you can choose to work with " junior " postdoc ( = someone not completely capable for working alone ) , while if the ratio is high , you need postdoc that are in fact already at the level of an assistant prof. But at some point I think we must ask ourselves if we always need one more postdoc . I guess this will depend on the field . In theoretical fields , when we hire a postdoc , this is to work with him . In some more practical fields , we tend to hire postdoc to make them working for us . The two cases are different : in the first case we need someone that will have ultimately an academic position , in the latter we need someone for coding , experimenting , etc. . Personally , I am not interested in the letters . I ask for references and I take my phone to know more about the candidate . Letters are always telling that the candidate is great , even if this is not completely true . I ask the candidate his/her papers , even those unpublished , and I read them . Then I contact some of the other authors to know more about who done what . Clearly yes . A postdoc is a researcher , I think that the way of working is very different : you can spend a lot of time without being " productive " when you are a postdoc , which is not the case in industry . This can be depressing , so we have to make sure that a postdoc ( which has less guidance than a PhD student ) can handle that .
I am sure this varies but is most likely one of the following ( in some kind of falling order ) : you are a well-known and respected researcher/educator in the field you have recently written material that are key to the book ( perhaps referenced in it ) you are known not to know the word " No " ( makes the editors work easier ) you are friends with the editor ( makes his/her life easy ) I doubt many editors will necessarily take you up on an offer ( depending which category you may fall into ) but I am sure some might be fine with it . It never hurts to contact an editor and express interest . You should then provide a background for why you should be considered for such a task .
I 've had a lot of undergrads in my lab ( physics ) . Unlike Corvus , I 'd say that certainly more than half have been net positives to the group 's research , and several have been very productive . The two most important things , I would say , are : A lot of direct contact and guidance -- not by email , but actual conversation -- either ( ideally ) from you ( the PI ) or from graduate students committed to the project and to mentoring someone . Simply being clear about tasks to be done , etc. , is insufficient ; every new researcher comes in without a good grasp of the motivations of the field , the challenges of exploring something new , etc. , and these are only surmounted by talking to people . Several times , I 've had great conversations with undergraduates in which I point out that I 'm thrilled that their experiment has failed , because now they can better understand what doing science is like , and they can pick themselves up , learn from what happened , and try again , and this is what makes them ' real ' researchers . I require a commitment of more than a few hours a week . If people are n't putting this in , we chat about the impossibility of having a meaningful project , and , again , learning how to be a ' real ' researcher . Sometimes people drop out ( or I ask them to leave ) if the motivation to do this is n't there . There 's no point in mentoring someone who ca n't commit real effort , and it does n't do them or you any favors . Your question is a great one . Best of luck , and please do n't think that mentoring undergrad research should just be a net-negative " service . " It does take a lot of work , but it can pay off !
end question
start question
Can I get inspired from Patented Algorithm ?
If your question is whether you can cite the patent in a research paper , then yes , absolutely : patents are fully citable sources , and patents do n't protect publication of related ideas . If , on the other hand , you want to use your related algorithm commercially , you 'd better get legal advice on that ...
Using a CC-BY license on arxiv.org will be fine whenever you do n't need to retain exclusive rights . CC-BY is a non-exclusive license , and you are free to grant as many non-exclusive licenses as you wish . However , you wo n't be able to grant a exclusive license thereafter , which is what most commercial publishers are looking for . The typical " transfer of copyright " would essentially be an exclusive license in these cases . If you intend to publish the paper submitted to arxiv.org with an open access publisher , it should generally work with a CC-BY license . Most open access publishers require only a non-exclusive license to publish a paper , so there would be no conflict here . It may however not be possible to go to a publisher which requires either an exclusive license or a copyright transfer afterwards . Interestingly , a copyright transfer may be less restrictive than an exclusive license in this case . In principle , it should be possible to transfer copyright even if a license have already been granted to someone else ( that 's how a company would buy software from another company that has already been licensed ) . So , why not try the following with your next paper : Submit it to arxiv under a CC-BY license . Submit to a commercial publisher , and add a statement like this to the copyright transfer agreement : " This agreement is with the understanding that a non-revocable , non-exclusive license under the terms CC-BY has been granted to a arxiv.org . " I wonder how they 'd react ...
Speaking from purely personal experience , I would n't necessarily worry about it . Of course it 's possible that your application was weak and that generally the other schools will feel the same way . On the other hand , it 's also possible that something you wrote just did n't appeal to someone working on the applications at this particular school and you were looked over . In my own experience applying to graduate school I actually got rejected from some of my ' backup ' schools but was accepted ( and was given extra incentive to come to ) one of my ' dream ' schools .
Legally speaking , any disclosure of an invention prevents it from being patented : it counts as <URL> . Disclosure includes not only publication but also public demonstrations , as well as sales ( except possibly when subject to a non-disclosure agreement ) . This is part of the <URL> requirement of patentability . There is an exception : in some countries , the inventor has a <URL> after disclosure during which they can still file a patent . This only applies to the inventor , a third party is n't allowed to file a patent for something they did n't invent , or for something that somebody else has already published . The longest grace period around the world is 1 year , in the US . Some jurisdictions such as the EU have no grace period . Thus if you publish your research , this protects from anyone subsequently filing a patent on it . Even if they had invented it previously , your publication would invalidate a future application . After publication , the only remaining risk is that you , or a fellow inventor who worked with you , take advantage of the grace period to file a patent in countries where this is possible . I do n't know of a way for you to legally guarantee to others that you wo n't file a patent . Note that you need to publish ( or at least publicize -- a private disclosure is sufficient to invalidate a patent unless it falls under the scope of a confidentiality agreement ) . If you invent something and do n't publicize it , that allows someone else ( presumably working independently , since you did n't tell them anything ) to file a patent on their own invention . Being the first to invent does n't bring you an advantage ( it used to in some countries , but since the US switched in 2013 , all countries have a <URL> system ) . Fortunately , publishing open research should n't be an onerous requirement . That 's the law . In practice , patent examiners do n't always find prior publications . The ubiquitous Internet has made it easier than it used to be , but conversely the increasing volume of available knowledge has made it more difficult to find the needle in the haystack . If a patent has been accepted by a patent office , it can still be contested due to the existence of prior art , but this requires a court decision , which can be costly . Some research institutions ( public or private ) have a formal practice of <URL> : publish potential inventions that they do n't intent to patent as soon as possible , in order to block anyone else from patenting them . Technically , any publication is a public disclosure , including an arXiv preprint , a blog post , or even a research seminar if it 's legally open to external visitors . However , since it 's easier to fight a patent before it 's granted , it is advantageous to make it easy for patent examiners to find the defensive publication . If you 're concerned about someone filing a patent on something you discovered , or for that matter anything that you know about , you can watch patent applications . Patent applications are published for a period of at least a few months , during which time anyone can point the patent examiner to something that they consider to be prior art . Stack Exchange participates in this process through their <URL> where people can coordinate prior art searches .
Well you can put your published articles on arxiv just for visibility purposes , but you will be having problems with the copyright of the journals and conferences in which your work is published . Essentially , the editors will not get too busy to track you down , but it is not ethical . There is one way to go around this problem , publish in arxiv the draft versions of your articles , the ones that are a little bit different from the published ones . In that case you would not have any kind of ethical issues ( you can also put them on your webpage , but always look to the copyright forms ) Good luck !
In the US , supervising graduate students is generally considered part of the normal workload of a faculty member and there 's no extra pay for doing this . The number of students supervised is typically a factor in tenure , promotion , and pay raise evaluations . Not supervising enough graduate students can hurt your evaluations and might possibly result in your not getting tenure or promotion or a pay raise .
If you have written the paper , you certainly have the right to be at least a co-author . In fact , from what you said , it seems to me highly dubious that your professor should a an author at all . Being paid as a RA does not waive your right of getting credits for publications you wrote . Your professor is also paid by the university . EDIT : If you would like to talk to your professor about this , I 'd suggest that you talk politely . To be honest , I do n't know how to do this , but I am sure this is important ( and possible ) . Thanks to Captain Emacs for their very valuable advice in the comment .
Well , as I always say , the academia is a circle with its own established convention to follow . In terms of paper publication , you have to learn how to describe things using the terminology and way of expression accepted by the academia . Normally you need several years of regular university education to master these . But in your particular case , I think it would be easier if you could find a mentor in the university ( e.g. a professor or a research ) who really understands and recognize your research result and has your trust . He could teach you what is a logic and sound research and how to speak in the language used in the academic community . Another solution is just publish your result on your personal blog ( I mean a well-known blog system like google + or wordpress , so that the timestamp of your post will tell the world you 're the original holder of the idea ) and try to make your result get noticed by the academic people . If you really want to challenge people 's stereotype about academic paper author , you could also try to publish paper yourself . But it is definitely extremely hard .
Can my professor require , at the penalty of point loss , that I actually contact my family members ? No , because for all the professor knows , you might be an orphan without any living family members . However , I suspect the request is meant in less literal a way than what you are taking it for . You should clarify this with your professor . The issue is that the professor probably wants to create such an assignment that involves a number of subjects , without overburdening any third parties , while at the same time avoiding that everyone asks their classmates and all answers to the assignment are based upon essentially the same sample . Some examples of similar suggestions to students that I find completely normal : " Have your girlfriend/boyfriend proofread your thesis before submitting it . " " Ask your parents to use your prototype before running the study . " None of these means that you really need to ask these specific people , or that you should n't ask anyone else . They are just a way to express that you should find someone that probably only you are in touch with ( so these other persons do not have to spend days for answering the requests of dozens of students ) , someone who might possibly have a different background ( which , depending on the task , might be desirable ) , and at the same time someone who you can reasonably ask for such a favour without coming across as too demanding . In these examples , the exemplary nature of the mentioned roles is usually understood ; at least , I have yet to see a student who would truly respond to the first ( w.l.o.g. ) request : " Ok . But I ca n't have my thesis proofread because I do n't have a girlfriend/boyfriend . " Of course , it 's just an example of a single person who might or might not exist or be available . The request by your professor , in contrast , to ask " dozens of family members " , seems a bit extreme in comparison , but as a bottom line , you should still try to find out whether it was n't just an example . Or can I provide obviously fake data ? This , in contrast , might be counterproductive . You already wrote you were going to inform your professor if you do so , but better do this earlier than later . In most situations that I can think of , using an arbitrary group of real people as a sample for something is a closer match to one 's real family members than making up that data . The issue I 'm seeing become apparent when considering the possible pedagogical goals of the assignment : The professor wants to point out a phenomenon that typically appears in data from real people . In this case , fake data will probably not exhibit the respective traits and thus will be worthless in this respect . The professor wants you to get the experience of interviewing real people . Obviously , this experience is not gained from producing artificial data . In contrast , the following education achievement that you might be reaching is probably not aimed for : The professor wants you to practice ways to create a realistic set of artificial data . If that were the task , the assignment would have asked you to generate artificial data right away . Therefore , my two suggestions are : Asking another group of people rather than your family members should be accepted by the professor . You may want to ask the professor , even though personally , I might even do so without commenting on it . Producing fake data , even when known to the professor , might be counterproductive to the goals of the assignment , and therefore should definitely first be discussed .
Generally speaking , the name of the person registering does not have to be the same as the name on the credit card . You can pay for your co-author 's registration if you want . the IEEE discount applies if the person registering is an IEEE member , regardless of who is paying . If your co-author is registering to attend the conference , it 's fine for him to use your credit card ( if that 's what you want ) and he can still get the IEEE discount , since he 's an IEEE member . If you 're the one registering to attend the conference , you ca n't get the discount if you 're not an IEEE member .
I 'm afraid I have bad news : Unless you are writing algorithms for entirely new scientific areas , you can safely assume that every algorithm anyone can come up without being familiar with the literature is either ( i ) already known , or ( ii ) inferior to already known algorithms . In other words , since you do n't seem to be familiar with the literature in your field , I would think that the chances for your algorithm to be new and better are slim . It may of course be new , but inferior to existing methods , in which case it 's not useful . ( The reason for this is that people who are familiar with the literature , have been thinking about these issues for a long time , and know about the limitations of the existing methods , are most likely to come up with improvements . It is unlikely that people who are not familiar with an area waltz in , come up with something , and it turns out to be better than what all of the experts have come up with . It probably happens every once in a while , but it 's unlikely . ) This does n't help you find out whether your algorithm has been found so far . But it helps you determine whether it 's worthwhile pursuing this further -- which it is likely not . You are probably better off spending your time reading the literature in the field to understand what others have been doing , what the limitations of existing algorithms are , etc. .
According to the <URL> at the Colorado School of Mines , which also requires international students to enroll in the school insurance plan , it is legal . The legal rationale they offer is : It 's not considered discrimination to have different policies for U.S. citizen vs. international students , so long as the requirements are the same for all international students regardless of country of origin : " The University may impose such a requirement on all students who are not United States citizens . Such a requirement is not regarded as discrimination on the basis of national origin by the courts . See Espinoza vs. Farah , 6 FEP 931 ( November 19 , 1973 ) . This is true so long as no distinction is made between citizens of different foreign countries " ( Joseph Goldhammer , Resident Legal Counsel , Office of the Attorney General , Dept. of Law , State of Colorado , regarding Foreign Student Health Insurance ) . Federal immigration law itself imposes certain health insurance or other requirements on foreign students : Most students come to U.S. institutions under an " F " visa . Federal immigration law requires that this subclass of non-immigrants provide proof of their financial ability to support themselves and the cost of their education . These requirements have not been found to violate the equal protection amendment to the constitution . ( Anwo vs. Immigration and Naturalization Service. , 607 F. 2d 435 D.C. Cir 1979 ) . Colorado School of Mines considers medical insurance an integral part of the students ability to support themselves . Federal immigration law also requires that exchange visitors and their accompanying spouse/dependent ( s ) coming to the United States on a " J " visa carry medical insurance . ( 22 CFR 515.14 ) ( Note that J-1 visa holders are required to have health insurance meeting certain minimum requirements , not just any health insurance . ) Courts have recognized that specifically mandating health insurance for foreign students is not discriminatory : Equal Protection Analysis/14th Amendment to the Constitution : The U.S. constitution requires that " no state shall ... deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law . " Is requiring health insurance of international students discriminatory ? Does it violate those students ' constitutional equal protection rights ? Case law differentiates the legal rights of U.S. citizens and permanent residents from the legal rights of non-immigrant aliens , those persons who are in the United States for a short period of time and for a particular purpose . Courts have recognized that requiring health insurance protects the students ' ability to exist in the community , realizing the high costs of health care in this country ( Ahmed v. University of Toledo , 822 F. 2d 26 6th Cir . 1987 ) . Further , courts have acknowledged that requiring health insurance is consistent with , and supports the purposes of , federal immigration law . " International students do not have a constitutional right to attend American universities without complying with the institutions ' reasonable regulations . " ( Plyler v. Doe , 457 U.S. 202 , 1982 ) .
This is clearly answered in the comments by @Stephan Kolassa ( making community wiki here just to post an answer for the question ) . Absolutely do NOT resubmit the paper ! If you do , you could end up having everything rejected . Contact the editors of the journal . 3.5 months is not such a long time for journal review in many fields ( unfortunately ) but it is sufficient time to warrant a quick friendly email to the editor asking what the progress is . Though you should not pester the editor , contacting them after 3.5 months seems perfectly reasonable . But keep a friendly/deferential tone . ( Do n't demand or complain ... just ask for info . ) ( And best of luck with the reviews . The first submission is always the most nerve-wrecking . If it works out , then great . If not , try not to sweat it too much . Rejection happens to nearly everyone . )
Find the hallway where your department 's faculty have their offices . Knock on the first door . When the professor answers , say " Hi , I 'm [ name ] . I 'm a master 's student , and I 'm interested in doing research . Do you have some time to talk ? " Repeat for the remaining doors . ( It also helps to have some idea what kind of research you want to do , and to do some background reading on the professors ' research before you talk to them . We like it when students say " I read your paper on X , and I have a few questions . " )
You certainly can and it is often useful in the ways that Michael M. notes . However , there can be a downside in that it effectively reduces the number of useful letters of recommendation by one . In other words , the people in program who know you already know you . If they are on the admissions committee , then they will ( if they support your candidacy ) speak up for you . When advocating , it 's handy to have ammunition in the form of external evaluations . Scenario : I am a Professor at University X and I really want AS2045 ( who is at X ) to continue to the PhD program . I 'm also on the admissions committee . When promoting her case to my peers on the committee , I would find it more useful to have 3 outside letters that say she 's brilliant ( " Prof. A , Prof. B. and Prof. C @ OtherU think she is brilliant , and so do I ! " ) rather than 3 letters , one of which is my own -- making it effectively only 2 that I can use to argue my point . tl ; dr : If the person is on the admissions committee , then ask them for their advice -- would they prefer an external letter from another person or do they think their own letter would suffice . Note : If they are n't on admissions , then certainly include the internal letter .
You can set up an <URL> that will do exactly what you want . From Google 's <URL> : How do I get notified when a particular paper is cited ? Search for the title of your paper , e.g. , " Anti de Sitter space and holography " ; click on the " Cited by " link at the bottom of the search result ; and then click on the envelope icon in the left sidebar of the search results page . An even more effective way can be to set up a google scholar <URL> and select " Follow new citations " from the appropriate checkbox .
There 's two opposing forces here : You 're probably not doing research if you can say exactly what you are going to do beforehand in the research proposal . At the heart of research is exploration . Hence it is expected that you demonstrate some agency and adapt the research as you explore the topic more . On the other hand , the people who fund you are funding you to work in the area of the proposal . Switching to a completely disconnected topic on a whim is ( generally ) not an option . How far can research deviate from the original research proposal ? This is difficult to give a concrete answer to and it will differ from fund to fund . Most generally , if you can show the funding body a path from what you proposed to what you ended up doing ( i.e. , you can show that your intent was to follow the proposal , but you discovered new evidence that a better alternative was possible and you followed that alternative instead ) , then I think you 're on safe ground . In other cases , it will depend entirely on what your funding body is looking for and how they justify their funds to their bosses . You will have to try understand what the objectives of the funders are : is it publications , creation of a product , teaching and dissemination , contributing towards some high-level national/EU directive , etc. ? Will your new direction likewise satisfy those objectives under what was originally agreed in the proposal ? These are important questions . ( Even if you stuck steadfastly to the topic proposed , groking the motives of your funders and what they will look for during reviews is vital for success . If you understand these motives well enough , then as a side result , you 'll have the answer as to how much deviation is acceptable or even desirable . )
Most commonly the deadline is inclusive , i.e. , " January 15 " means that the deadline is " at some moment during January 15 " . What does this mean can vary : For online applications , it 's usually 23:59:59 . For mailed applications , there are two options and exactly one of them is true : either the poststamp has to be January 15 ; or it has to arrive to the institution by January 15 . For applications you deliver in person , usually the opening hours of the office where you have to bring it apply . In either case , it should be specified in the conditions . And please remember that timezones can play a role here , and everything is in the timezone of the institution where you apply unless stated otherwise . / From comments / If you doubt the precise conditions , just call them or e-mail them and ask for clarification . It will cost you less than solving any troubles afterwards .
If I understand the question correctly , the dilemma is whether to just distribute the code or whether to also make a scientific publication out of it . The way that I typically think about this type of problem is to see whether it passes any of the following tests : Does the improvement enable a significant scientific or technical work that was not previously possible ? For example , if faster simulation allows a control loop to be done in realtime that could n't before , that advance may be scientifically valuable even if the methods are not interesting in and of themselves , but you have to demonstrate that value . Does the improvement make a qualitative change in the operation of the algorithm which is interesting , e.g. , changing a scaling property that was previously a limit ? Is the mechanism of the improvement interesting in and of itself , e.g. , such that it teaching something about the nature of the algorithm or such that it might be applied to other algorithms or problems as well ? Any of these is a good reason to publish an improvement on an algorithm .
Your job , as an academic , is twofold : Do amazing research . Write it up and convey your results to other people . It sounds like you view ( 2 ) to apply only to others who are already in your field and are completely familiar with everything you 've done . You will find that , in the entirety of your field , there are probably just a few dozen people who are intimately familiar with every details of your field , and only a few hundred who are really familiar with what you do . Everyone else -- academic , layperson , village idiot -- will require an explanation , and you should do them the favor of explaining it to them . To more directly answer your question , you should always have two answers ready to the question " what do you do ? " : An elevator pitch , as described elsewhere . This should take ~ 15-30 seconds to say and would give a very high-level overview of your work . A more in-depth explanation , which would take about 3-5 minutes , which conveys what you do in more detail . Generally speaking , less time than that and you ca n't convey any useful information , more time than that and you 're giving too many details . After your in-depth explanation , either the person will say , " oh " , and move on , or they 'll ask questions and you can have an intellectual discussion . ( Note : the following point is somewhat debatable . ) I 've found for myself that it helps to visualize the person you 're talking to as paying your salary ; if you 're on a publicly-funded research grant ( i.e. , any governmental grant ) , their taxes are funding your research . It gives some perspective .
end question
start question
What are the benefits of being a convener/chair of a session in a conference ?
The following answer is based on my understanding of what it means to organise a symposium in a conference ( i.e. , commonly a conference session of about 60 to 120 minutes with around 3 to 8 talks all with a common theme , where the chair is the one to invite and arrange the talks and often provides a more general introduction to the talks ) . Obviously , I 'm not talking about the more mundane task of merely chairing a session , which can be as simple as you being the designated person that ensures that each talk keeps to time . You can build relationships with the other presenters in your session . If you are organising a symposium , then you will be contacting other possible presenters who you think may be attending . This often provides an excuse to connect with people you may only know through their research . For people you already know well , it can provide an excuse to catch up at the conference , which in turn can flow into research collaborations or other opportunities . You are likely to get more people to your session , and those that come may be more interested in your topic . If attendees see that your session is all about your topic , then people interested in your topic are more likely to attend . In contrast if you present an individual paper , it may get lost in a more general session . Chairing a session can help people see you as a person active in the topic . Chairing a session can be something you put down on your CV , performance review , promotion application , grant application , etc. . It 's generally not a huge thing . In many , but not all , fields , conferences are more a means to an end . In these cases journal articles and grants are more important . That said , chairing a symposium that you organised does show some academic leadership that would count for something .
No . A journal that does not charge publication fees can still be a predatory journal . Generally , the motivation for publishing a predatory journal is to make money . Since the product they create ( the journal ) is too low in quality for them to be able to sell subscriptions and earn revenue from readers , they often make money by collecting publication fees from authors . However , predatory journals may also have reasons not to charge publication fees . For example , when starting out , they may offer publication free of charge in order to get authors to submit to them , so they can build up a publishing history to look more legitimate . As another example , an individual might start a fake journal so that he and some of his friends have somewhere to " publish " ( for career advancement ) , and accept submissions from other authors without fee so as to make the journal appear legitimate .
You are correct in that the total time will first of all vary between journals and fields but also slightly over time . I am chief editor of an international journal in the environmental sciences . The time each reviewing editor spends on a paper with our journal can be broken down as follows : Must scan the paper upon receiving it for assigning reviewers ( probably takes an hour , maybe less ) Assign reviewers ( does not take much time but can be drawn out over time when reviewers decline to review ) Read reviews carefully and provide authors with guidelines on what to focus on ( probably takes a few hours ) Carefully check the revisions and decide on the faith of the paper ( takes a couple of hours at least depending on extent of revisions ) If the paper goes to major revisions you need to go through steps 2-4 again If the paper is accepted then spend maybe 15 minutes to half an hour formulating a suggestion for final decision ( depends on what might need to be written ) This can be summed up for one paper as probably more than half a day . Then the question is how many papers you are requested to handle per month/year etc. . You can then easily multiply by the number of papers to get a reasonable idea of the total time you will need to spend . To add to this , you will need to act whenever a paper arrives , so you are expected to be more or less on call all year . Most journals have systems for indicating when editors are away but that only works for assigning new papers ; if you have started the process you will have to see it through ... and keep chasing late reviews and delayed revisions . So although I can not give you an idea of workload , you have some tools to figure out what will be involved . Knowing the number of papers you are expected to handle is the most important statistic to figure out . Then depending on your field , you may have a sense of whether my estimates for scanning and reading materials are reasonable . I am sure they will vary depending on discipline .
Full disclosure : I originally planned to go to medical school , but things happened and I received an MS in CS instead . The question on whether you should attend weighs heavily on something you have n't clearly specified : how serious is medicine for you ? If you 're just " Oh , I might do something medically related and want to attend " feel free to attend . However , unless you 're actually studying biology or other related medical topics , this conference will not provide you very much besides being a CV stuffer . Both medicine and CS alone are full-time education paths . If you 're learning 10 CS courses for 1 intro to biology course , then I would say medicine is not really an associated topic of study . I would say , at the very least , you should have enough credits to have a minor in Biology or some other medically related field to indicate an actual understanding of the medical field . If you are super-interested in the topic of medicine and feel that " Yes , this is what I want to do , " then this is a program you should attend . You will meet people , make connections , and possibly end up doing research with them . The conference is a source of opportunities . You have to back up that dedication with actually learning biology , chemistry , and physiology . Like any set of study , learning medicine is a commitment . That being said , medicine and computer science together tends to be more towards the Bio-Medical Engineering field . Or Bioinformatics , both of which are graduate-level programs as well . Plenty of things in these fields , like robo-surgery or automated diagnosis , and all great research-friendly topics . Electronic medical records software and clinical trials software , however , medical knowledge is usually not required and can be provided by people trained in the medical field .
Usually , these relationships are financial . For example : In a paper talking about how Twitter has failed to police harassment , a professor who 's an investor in an early-stage social network competitor would have to declare that . Similarly , board memberships , speaking gigs , etc. are things that would have to be declared . For example , while writing a paper about abortion access rights , a professor should disclose if she was a paid speaker for a pro-choice advocacy group . Generally , " I really care about this " for personal reasons does n't so much count as a conflict of interest . I can not imagine , for example , a journal intending for those writing in gender studies to disclose if they had been victims of intimate partner violence .
Value in an academic environment : zero . Everything you learn at Coursera you 'd simply learn from a textbook in a few days if you needed it for your academic research or teaching . Value to a non-academic employer : marginal , mainly as a signaling device ( this person will sacrifice his spare time over a non-trivial amount of time to improve himself ) , but certainly lower than a certification in a field or skill directly related to your job . Value to a prospective spouse ( as suggested by @earthling ) : depends . I 'd certainly look favorably on someone who took a Coursera course instead of watching TV . Value to yourself : again depends , but could be highest of all . I certainly know that those courses I took were mainly for my own pleasure and benefit .
As a person who has hired quite a few people in industry , I will simply say that advanced areas ( or even areas that are perceived to be advanced ) often see PhDs being preferable . In this respect I completely agree with Bitwise . I do not , however , agree that you might earn less . Those with sought-after skills get paid well in industry . It is about supply and demand but supply ( people who can do the job ) is not high and demand is growing . Machine-learning is hot in the business literature . That is , managers are becoming well informed about the potentials of machine-learning and they are becoming worried that the only way they can compete for the long-term is by taking advantage of this area . While lower-level programming jobs might not see any benefit from higher qualifications , areas like machine-learning are not seen as lower-level . To answer your main question , are there pitfalls of having a PhD if you want a job in industry ? The answer is no . I am unaware of anyone who has ever thought lower of a job candidate because they have a PhD . Yes , you could get a job without one but for your areas of interest , a PhD will give you lots of advantage when it comes to getting job offers .
Most programs I 've ever heard of do n't randomly assign professors - but the typical system in the US I 'm aware of has each professor required to teach X number of credits . The department has requirements for what class must be taught ( like standard intro classes , courses required for the major , etc ) , as well as the opening for a variety of specialty courses ( often called " electives " ) - but the core courses have to be taken up first . While departments differ , it seems the most common system is one where professors pick the classes they will teach ( sometimes by seniority or department rank getting their first pick , sometimes by some other method ) . The natural order of things is that it 's easier to teach a class the second time than it is to teach it the first time ( since you already have so much material prepared and you have had some practice now ) , so professors naturally end up teaching many of the same classes year after year . However , most departments have comings and goings nearly every semester - retirements , people leaving , sabbaticals , medical leave , changing course load amounts ( buying out of teaching , becoming a department chair , not being the chair anymore , winning a big grant , having a big grant run out ) . Thus things are constantly in flux , so even if you really , really wanted the same courses taught by the same professors every semester - you ca n't have it , it is n't possible . There is a downside to having things static , even when you somehow manage to have so much stability that it 's possible . Some examples : Many professors get comfortable with the material enough that they do n't make large updates , and it can get stale and out of date over time ( both materially and in method used ) . Professors , being human beings , get bored of saying the same thing over and over and their excitement , passion , and patience can begin to wear thin even with classes they once enjoyed . Some students are n't a good fit with some professors , and if a required class is always taught by a professor they do n't get along with this may interfere with academic progress . Professors can lose sight - or just not have a good idea to begin with - what the goal of teaching some material actually is . Most programs have courses that build on each other , like Introduction - > Research Methods - > Stats - > Advanced Research Methods . If you only teach stats and do n't ever run an advanced class , are you sure you are teaching the stats students will need - and are you emphasizing applications that best prepare them for the advanced material ? If you teach a Calculus I class , are you making sure students get all the groundwork they need for Calculus II ? I 've had students tell me " the Professor assumed we all had JavaScript in the previous class and designed the whole class around it , but half of us had never seen it before ! " - with not very encouraging results . However , there are downsides to moving people around a lot too : The first time is always the hardest . No one knows what to expect , every question asked will be one you might not have answered before , the teacher 's idea of pacing and time required to complete assignments will basically be wild guesses , etc. . Sometimes someone is asked to teach a class because no one else is available . I talked with a visiting academic who was a statistician , and he said in his first semester they came to him and said , " Hey , have you ever used C++ before ? " He said , " Well , I guess a little bit in undergrad ... " And so they said , " Great , do n't have anyone else to teach this required class - will you teach a C++ class for us ? " So he just had to figure it out as he went . It is n't ideal , but the alternative : no class offered that semester , which may mean students ca n't take required key classes or they will just miss out on learning important material entirely . Sometimes everyone just has the make the best of a non-ideal situation - come to think of it , that 's what most of us have to do most of the time ! In the end , there is a first time for everyone . Experienced professors had to teach a class for the first time too . Sometimes this can even be a positive experience for everyone , if the professor and the student choose to handle it that way . One of the hardest things about teaching people is when you 've forgotten what it was like to not know . You can all learn together , and it can be easier to have empathize with students confusion and anticipate their questions when you are confused and have questions too ! The job of a teacher is n't always to be an expert bestowing their grand accumulated wisdom , but instead sometimes they are just a guide and skilled companion to help you through difficult territory . ... and sometimes neither of you want to be there , but it 's a required course and the department is making them teach it so you suck it up and move on . :)
The answer ( as in case of most answers in academia.SE ) is it depends , often widely from case-to-case . Unless presented with an exceptional example , I would generally view having more than two advisers as a major hindrance - the perceived benefit of having another source of ideas is negated heavily by the communications overhead between them , and the scope for misunderstandings about their role , which might cause the student to be either overloaded in multiple ( possibly conflicting ) areas , or languishing without any significant guidance . The rest of my answer is based on the assumption that the number of advisers is 2 . What is the defined role of the said advisers - are they equally responsible for guiding the student towards completion of their graduate studies ( as I 've been told is the case in some European schools/research schools ) , or is one of them the principal guide and the other a co-guide ? The amount of time/effort invested by each would depend on their perception of how much they are actually responsible for the student 's growth as a researcher . As with most social interactions , it would help greatly if there is a good ( or at least professional ) working relationship between the 2 guides , as well as a healthy overlap of research areas - a new student might not be able to handle multiple research problems in completely different areas at the same time ( without affecting the time to graduate , or the quality of results ) . Assuming the student publishes with both of them independently , it would look good on her CV that she can produce publishable research with multiple established researchers . This could also have the side-effect of enhancing the student 's research network - as a lot of papers ( in CS at least ) have more than 2 authors , and often collaborating on an paper could lead to more papers/research done with the same set of persons in future .
Reposting my answer from the original thread There have been multiple studies about this over the years and in different fields , indicating a link rot on the order of a few percent per year . Here are some , in chronological order : Randy J. Carnevale , Dominik Aronsky , The life and death of URLs in five biomedical informatics journals , International Journal of Medical Informatics , Volume 76 , Issue 4 , April 2007 , Pages 269-273 , doi : <URL> . states Of the 19,108 references extracted from 606 printed and 86 in-press articles , 1112 ( 5.8 % ) references contained a URL . Of the 1049 unique URLs , 726 ( 69.2 % ) were alive , 230 ( 21.9 % ) were dead , and 93 ( 8.9 % ) were comatose . URLs from in-press articles included 212 URLs , of which 169 ( 79.7 % ) were alive , 21 ( 9.9 % ) were dead , and 22 ( 10.4 % ) were comatose . The average annual decay , or link rot , rate was 5.4 % . Edmund Russell , Jennifer Kane ( 2008 ) . The Missing Link : Assessing the Reliability of Internet Citations in History Journals . Technology and Culture , Volume 49 , Number 2 , pp. 420-429 . doi : <URL> states We examined the reliability of worldwide web citations in two leading history journals ( Journal of American History and American Historical Review ) over seven years and found that 18 percent of web links cited over that period were inactive . The problem increased over time . In articles published seven years earlier , 38 percent of web citations were dead . Jason Hennessey and Steven Xijin Ge ( 2013 ) : A cross disciplinary study of link decay and the effectiveness of mitigation techniques . BMC Bioinformatics 14 ( Suppl 14 ) : S5 . doi : <URL> states we downloaded 18,231 Web of Science ( WOS ) abstracts containing " http " in the title or abstract from the years under study ( 1996-2010 ) , out of which 17,110 URLs ( 14,489 unique ) were extracted and used . We developed Python scripts to access these URLs over a 30-day period . For the period studied , 69 % of the published URLs ( 67 % of the unique ) were available on the live Internet , the Internet Archive 's Wayback Machine had archived 62 % ( 59 % unique ) of the total and WebCite had 21 % ( 16 % unique ) . Overall , 65 % of all URLs ( 62 % unique ) were available from one of the two surveyed archival engines . Klein M , Van de Sompel H , Sanderson R , Shankar H , Balakireva L , Zhou K , et al. ( 2014 ) Scholarly Context Not Found : One in Five Articles Suffers from Reference Rot . PLoS ONE 9 ( 12 ) : e115253 . doi : <URL> . looked at link rot in article corpora from arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC : All three corpora show a moderate , yet alarming , link rot ratio for references made in recent articles , published in 2012 : 13 % for arXiv , 22 % for Elsevier , and 14 % for PMC . Not surprisingly when considering the dynamic nature of the web , for older articles the link rot ratio increases in all corpora . For publication year 2005 , the link rot ratio stands at 18 % , 41 % , 36 % for arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC , respectively . Going back to the earliest publication year in our corpora , 1997 , the ratios become 34 % , 66 % , and 80 % , respectively . Zittrain , J , Albert , K and Lessig , L . ( 2014 ) . Perma : scoping and addressing the problem of link and reference rot in legal citations . Harvard Law Review 127 : 176 -- 196 . surveyed law journals and court decisions , with the following observations We documented a serious problem of reference rot : more than 70 % of the URLs within the above mentioned journals , and 50 % of the URLs within U.S. Supreme Court opinions suffer reference rot -- meaning , again , that they do not produce the information originally cited . I also think I had seen a study somewhere that indicated that even " early online " articles start out at about 5-10 % link rot , i.e. they start rotting well before official publication . Could not find that right now , though .
I have had some pretty good success advising undergrads by : Making sure that the problem is extremely well-defined . That is , do n't throw them into the water and see if they swim . Think a lot about what the expected outcome will be , and what the foreseeable steps , challenges and problems will be . Yes , this is a lot of work and means that you could ( almost ) " do the work yourself " in the same time , but for undergrads you can typically not yet expect that you can just drop them a research question and see them run with it . Have regular meetings . Make sure that there is progress , and if there is n't , make sure that you know what the blocking issues are . Do n't expect them to necessarily come to you first with any issues . In my experience , undergrads often are a bit shy about asking for help , and sometimes get stuck on ( for you ) relatively easy problems unnecessarily . Make sure that you would be able to do the project yourself given enough time . I know that this is somewhat controversial , but for grad students , I am perfectly happy to accept projects where I myself would n't know how to do every part myself . That is , I expect a grad student to be able to solve her/his own problems . For undergrads , I do not do this . I want to be able to help undergrads in a meaningful way if they get stuck , technically . Conversely , make sure that the work is not just random grunt work . In my experience , the best way to make sure that the undergrad research project is not interesting for the student is by letting them do something that everybody else either considers unimportant or terribly tedious to do . Undergrads are not yet experienced , but they are still colleagues and not some sort of scientific minions . Somewhat related : make sure that you are excited about the project , or at the very least be able to convincingly pretend that you are . Again , having the feeling that nobody cares about their project is a surefire way to make for a terrible research experience . Integrate the undergrads into the lab . When there are talks , the undergrads are invited ( i.e. , expected to come ) . When the grad students are expected to regularly speak in the internal seminar , the undergrads need to do this as well . If there is a regular lab beer night , the undergrads are invited as well . If the lab usually goes to lunch together , the undergrads are asked to come along . You get the idea . If at all possible , give them a fixed work place in the lab , and require them to be there at least some percent of the time . To summarize , the best undergrad projects in my lab always worked on a well-defined project , which was still an integral part of the research agenda for the lab that others were enthusiastic about . On concrete example from my research : some members of my lab are currently working on benchmarking compute cloud providers . That typically means hacking up some automation scripts , deploying benchmarks , gathering some data , and analysing the results . This is rather tedious and error-prone work . Hence , I got a computer science bachelor student to build a web-based platform , which students could use to define , schedule and execute benchmarks using a relatively simple DSL ( domain-specific language ) . The platform the student built technically was n't terribly complex , but the solution worked well , tackled a common community problem , and most importantly saved multiple grad students a ton of time . We also published the tool as open source software and wrote a small paper about it , allowing to student to go to a conference to another continent . During the conference , a number of professors asked the student for details on his tool , and expressed interest to also use it for their research .
The practice I 'm most familiar with is that a coauthor is a coauthor is a coauthor . Anyone listed as a coauthor on the title page of the paper should be listed on the title slide of any talk about the paper , and explicitly acknowledged ( " This is joint work with ... " ) when the talk begins . Whether any of your coauthors helped you prepare your slides or the proceedings abstract is none of the audience 's business . But this attitude is clearly specific to my field , where papers only rarely have more than three authors . It might not scale so well in fields ( like particle physics ? ) where a " small " group may have 100 members .
Though a Ph.D is not necessarily a disadvantage , depending on the field and the nature of the Ph.D , it may also not be as competitive as the equivalent number of years in industry . Think from a perspective of a hiring dev team leader who needs a good systems engineer yesterday to help integrate some obscure API from a vendor into their product . You 're choosing between a pile of resumes . On one , you have a candidate who has 3 years as a junior engineer in a company that worked on image sensors , 2 years of work as a systems developer II , and one year as a lead developer on a computer vision project . He 's delivered seven projects in total and has worked in a highly cross-functional team of hardware and software engineers , salespeople , and on-site support staff . The products he worked on brought the company revenue of $ 86.3 million dollars over seven years . On another , you have a candidate who has done 6 years in a Ph.D and 1 year worth of internships in total . He 's worked on a computer vision project and has contributed a novel algorithm to solving " Line tracing under low UV light conditions " ( I made that up , I have no idea if that 's a real problem in computer vision ) , and has written six publications . He also has taught a course on 3rd year systems programming and has TAed robotics three times . While they are both good candidates , chances are that unless you need someone who does " line tracing under UV light " , the first candidate might be more attractive . Less training , less having to work with that person to integrate them into a product-based flow , proven record of delivering product and making sales , etc. . . I personally feel that the " disadvantage " of a Ph.D is more about lost opportunity cost than an actual disadvantage . In many cases , the culture of academia vs. industry are different enough that it 's like switching fields even if the technologies are similar . Basically , someone with 7 years actual work experience has enough to basically go from a new grad hire to a project team lead , whereas someone with 7 years of Ph.D is proven to deliver in an academic setting but not in a for-profit product-based one . However , at the same time , there are many industries that want to have Ph.Ds on their staff as well because they are long-term , deep thinkers who are rigorous and detailed .
It 's legitimate to contact the school and ask how they define that term , you know . There 's nothing wrong with admitting that you have n't run into this particular phrase before , or that you 're concerned that their definition might not be exactly the one you 're familiar with . " Better to ask and have them suspect you 're a fool , than to assume and remove all doubt . "
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
I 've been publication chair of an IEEE conference before , and it 's pretty straight-forward . IEEE has a well-arranged process for managing conference publications , and you basically just need to hold up your side of the deal and make sure that nothing falls through the cracks . In particular : you should have an IEEE CPS publications contact . You can get this from the current general chairs , since they 're dealing with IEEE , or ( since its usually the same from year to year ) you can ask the previous publications chair . Set up a meeting with that person ASAP and they can walk you through the process and make plans with you ; I 've had very good experiences working with their publications personnel . The key responsibilities that you should expect to fulfill are : Set a schedule acceptable to IEEE and the conference chairs Work with the general chairs to fill out the required forms and get them to the IEEE on time , so that you can get the publications <URL> contract signed . This will include setting the various different types of publications ( e.g. , main track , short papers , workshop papers , tutorial abstracts , etc ) , as well as pages sizes , expected number , delivery method ( I recommend USB sticks ) and budget . Send information about camera ready from IEEE to the various conference chairs that need it ( general , program , workshops , tutorial , etc. ) . Work with chairs to get all of the front matter prepared in a timely fashion and within the schedule negotiated with IEEE ( cover , index information , introductions , sponsored material , etc. ) . Immediately after the conference , report to IEEE whether there were any no-shows ( who should have their papers removed ) . One month after reporting whether there were and no-shows , everything should appear online in IEEE Xplore . If it does n't , then you need to keep pinging IEEE 's representative to make sure things get into IEEE Xplore as promptly as possible .
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
As alluded to in the comments , there is no generic " right " answer : the number will depend strongly on the nature of your thesis , the state of the literature related to it , and your personal scholastic style . Nevertheless , in the spirit of engineering approximations , I will supply you with some rough guidelines . As a lower bound , I would be startled if it was possible to place most theses within the context of pre-existing work in less than about 20 references . In certain contexts such as an obscure corner of pure mathematics perhaps this might be possible , but in most cases work does not take place in a vacuum , and other people will have either used similar techniques or cared about similar problems in the past . As an upper bound , I would be concerned with a thesis with on the order of 200 or more references that the student has n't been doing enough work on their own original research and has been investing too much time and energy in building a literature review , rather than a thesis . Again , there will likely be cases where a thesis with an extremely high number of references would be reasonable , but these are likely to be unusual . Notice the extremely wide range and suspiciously round numbers in my estimates : really there is no " right " answer for how many there should be in general , but perhaps these will help with some initial first impressions in one 's thinking .
Chaired positions are generally endowed , in that the money provided for the salary , and some other benefits ( e.g. , a dedicated assistant ) or increased research funds comes from the interest on principal donated by the person or people the chair is named after , which is part of the school 's overall endowment ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Being named to a chair is a prestigious award , and in many cases it is a lifetime ( or at least , until retirement ) position . Some chaired positions are given on a rotating basis ( e.g. , for five years ) , but nonetheless it is prestigious to be named to an endowed chair . While it is not strictly true that professors in chaired positions are paid more ( because in most cases pay is negotiable ) , because universities use a combination of pay and incentives such as an endowed chair to lure highly sought-after candidates , the pay is probably on average higher than the average non-chaired full professor would have at the same institution and department . Finally , some schools use chairs at the university level ( versus the departmental or school level ) that they dole out throughout the university . The positions can therefore be used as an enabler for some departments with less money to attract particularly important faculty members that they might not have had an opportunity to attract otherwise . For a specific example of the policy for endowed chairs at one university ( Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ) , see <URL> .
Feel free to edit this answer to improve it , in particular to add other names you know to be used for the individual steps or to extend the maximum typical durations from your experience . The source for the diagram can be found <URL> . Overview <URL> Initial Check This step is usually performed by the non-scientific staff of the journal . It may include for example : Checking for broken files . Checking compliance with length requirements , if any . Checking central formatting requirements , e.g. , line numbers , if required by the journal . A plagiarism check . Excluding manuscripts of very low quality , such as automatic translations . Also known as : technical check , initial QC ( AIP ) , admin checklist ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays . Editor assignment or invitation Based on the topic of the manuscript and suggestions by the authors , an editor is assigned to handle the manuscript . Depending on the journal , the assignment may be done by technical staff , the journal 's chief editor , or automatic by submission category or author suggestion . With some journals , editors are invited and not assigned . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , editor assigned ( Editorial Manager , AIP ) , AE assignment ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays to several weeks . Editorial assessment The editors decide whether the paper should enter the review process or should be rejected directly , e.g. , because it does not fit the journal 's scope or requirements on importance or quality . A rejection at this stage is called desk reject . The paper may also be returned to the authors for reasons other than rejection . With revised manuscripts , the editors assess whether the existing reviews have been addressed adequately . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , waiting for potential reviewer assignment ( AIP ) , under review ( <URL> ) Typical duration : This strongly depends on the journal : With some journals , it is less than a week ; with others it may take a month , in particular if several people are involved in the decision or the initial quality hurdle is high . Peer review The editor selects a number of potential referees to review the manuscript . Should a referee decline to review or not perform the review in a certain time ( as given by the editor or journal ) , the editor usually has to select a new referee . The main exception to this is if the other referees already provided sufficient reviews at this point . With revised manuscripts , usually the reviewers from the previous round are selected . The editor may also decide that certain or all reviewers need not see the manuscript again , as their comments have been adequately addressed . Also known as : with reviewers , with referees , under review , awaiting referee assignment , awaiting referee reports , awaiting reviewer scores ( <URL> ) , reviewers assigned The initial selection of referees is usually comprised in the previous step . Some editorial systems give the status as with editors ( or similar ) if a new referee needs to be assigned and no other referee is currently assigned . Typical duration : This strongly depends on the field and journal . It typically ranges <URL> , but in some cases ( particularly for highly theoretical work where intense proof-checking is expected ) , it may be as long as one to two years . Moreover , the key factors for the duration of an individual peer-review process are how soon the reviewers find time to perform the review and how many reviewers decline or fail to review the manuscript . Thus , even for a given journal , there is a strong variation of review durations . Some journals give their statistics on this time ( or a related one ) on their webpage . Editorial decision Based on the reviews , the editors decide whether : The manuscript shall be rejected . The manuscript needs to be revised by the authors before it can possibly be accepted . If the authors submit a revised manuscript , the workflow is mostly the same as for the initial submission . The manuscript shall be accepted as it is . A decision requires further reviews . Also known as with editors ( APS ) , review completed , required reviews completed ( <URL> ) , <URL> , awaiting EiC decision ( IEEE ) , Editor Decision Started ( AIP ) Typical duration : A few workdays to a week . This may take longer with some journals , in particular if several people are involved in the decision . Copy editing and typesetting The article is copy-edited and typeset by the publisher . Occasionally , requests to the authors may occur at this stage , e.g. , due to low-quality figures . For some journals , a pre-copy-editing version of the manuscript will be put online at this point under a category like Just Accepted , with a warning that the current version has not yet been copy-edited and may change further before publication . Also known as : in production , in press Typical duration : This mostly depends on the publisher 's backlog . Usually between a few workdays to over a year , roughly correlated with the length of the publication delay ( see below ) . Final
end question
start question
Do citations of an edited volume of which I wrote one chapter count towards my own bibliometric indicators ?
Let 's split this into two different questions : 1 ) should citations of a " collection " book count as citations of an individual chapter in said book , and 2 ) will these citations count in any particular database . Considering the first question , I can see an argument for and an argument against whether such citations should count . In favor of counting , your work clearly is part of the collection , and if the collection has " citable quality " then your work is likely to contribute to that in some way . Opposing this is the fact that " collection " books where each group writes a chapter independently are generally completely lacking in unity as a scientific work . From what I have seen , citing such a book is tantamount to saying , " a bunch of people are working in this area . " I thus view a citation of the book as essentially equivalent to citing the ubiquitous " introductory review " chapter where the editors explain their vision of the field , then try to map that onto the collection of chapters they ended up with . In short , I think it typically should not count as a citation of individual chapters . For the second question : will citation databases agree with me , or will they count a citation of the book as a citation of you ? Well , that depends on just what sort of secretive sausage-making happens to be going on inside a particular database at a particular time . From my personal experiences , though , I 've seen chapters being treated separately , and the book as a whole being treated as a separate creation by the editors . Take heart , though , that often means the editor 's introduction will count as a citation for you !
The short and somewhat unsatisfactory answer is : enough . There is no formal limit but obviously too many becomes impractical . If you can reference a huge number of references for a single statement ( sentence ) it is normal to pick one or possibly a few by using a format indicating these references are just examples : ( e.g. , Smith et al. , 1943 ; Turner and Anthony , 1963 ) some statement by , for example , Smith et al. ( 1943 ) and Turner and Anthony ( 1963 ) I am assuming Harvard style formatting in these examples . Exactly when it is reasonable to show examples and when one actually have to show al references is a matter of context . If you , for example , have a series of references that together build up some matter and where none is more important than the other and none summarize the other , it could be necessary to list them all regardless of how many there are . I suggest you try to look at a number of different papers of a similar type ( literature review ) to the one you are writing to see how others handle such instances . You should also look at other masters thesis if you have the possibility . The main point of this is to know when it is sufficient to list only ( good ) examples rather than all possible references . This is of course a matter of training and learning to assess when which format is appropriate . It is therefore necessary to assess when papers simply duplicate each other ( from whatever view point you reference ) or when they each contribute something unique that merits their reference .
You should look for faculty working in the field that you are interested in researching , and then pitch your research idea directly to them . Make sure that you do a good job with a preliminary review of the literature for your idea and understand the professor 's specific research interests , so that your letter does not sound like any of the hundreds of mail-merge messages that professors get every week . If your idea is really worthwhile and you do a good targeted job of pitching it , changes are that someone will agree to work with you on it . However , the reality is that most students come into a PhD without a really good sense of existing literature or the feasibility of their ideas . It is for this reason that there is great value in being open-minded about your PhD thesis . Many students make the mistake of thinking that the PhD should be the pinnacle of their career , solving some grand problem in human existence . This might happen for a few figures in history , but , more typically , the PhD is the start of a research career and not the end of it .
This list does reflect your technical abilities and not your research-based activities . Therefore , all things listed here should be packaged and be presented under a section ( e.g. , such as ' Related Technical Activities ' ) ; to represent your technical abilities to program and contribute ( e.g. , Github ) .
Unfortunately , most hiring committees would at best ignore this contribution and at worst wonder if you allocate your time wisely . The work of translators is ( unfortunately ) given little value in academic communities with the exception of the field of literature and even there it is deprecated . The rationale is that the work is not the result of independent research nor does it add any intellectual value -- it is inherently wholly derivative . There might be some association of value if your translation had been finished , published by a reputable scientific publisher in your country , and you had been given awards or otherwise acknowledged for providing an important service to your community . But even then , there is a perception of someone as being " just a translator " that is hard to shake off . Note that Famous People  are allowed to do translations and be recognized for it , but Famous People  have latitude in their work that non-famous people do n't . At the very worst , a committee might worry that the fact that the translation is unfinished and that you have put effort into doing something with little recognized value means that you do n't allocate your energy and time wisely , and that you are not capable of independent research . The same also applies for authoring textbooks . Textbooks are also seen as inherently derivative and while they make the publisher and author money , are not indications of original scholarship . At this point in your career , you want to be seen as the generator of original scholarship .
Yes , the references/notes/tables are to be included in the word count .
As far as I know , no such bibliometric is in use . However , I think your question is predicated on a couple of misconceptions , which I will try to clear up . First , your citation count does n't " rate " you as a researcher . Yes , it 's something that people often look at in context with other things to get an idea of how much an impact your research has , but any bibliometric only captures a small aspect of this ( if you want , you can think of this as a random variable which measures " impact " or " influence , but with extremely large variance ) . And people know average citation counts vary a lot by fields and subfields . Serious researchers in your field will evaluate you based on your work and the opinion of experts in the field . I do n't think your idea is a bad one , but there are also various issues with the bibliometric you propose , which you may or may not have thought about : One obvious drawback is that this number no longer measures " scope of impact . " One person who writes a paper with a single citation , which is only a self-cite ( e.g. , this may happen in a corrigendum ) gets a 1 for this bibliometric , which is the same value as someone who in 20 different papers with 20 references each . The number of references a paper has is largely a function of the authors ' style and type of paper being written . When authors add gratuitous self-cites or pressure others to cite their works , that unfairly lowers this bibliometric for the other references . Also , you might philsophically be thinking of the weight in your proposed bibliometric as a measure of how much a cited paper influenced the current one , but the reality is far different . Some cited papers will be a lot more influential than other ones for a given work , and there is no simple bibliometric way to determine ( cf. <URL> ) . Not a drawback so much as pushback : this will give everyone a smaller citation number than they currently have , so I can imagine many people would be against it .
Whenever I 've taught , I would find no problem an action like yours . You might have pointed out a mistake ( in which case it 's honest and respectable to point it out ) , and you might have benefited from partial credit ( in which case , it 's easy for the professor to tell you or to ignore the correction ) . I personally would have also found it a delightful breath of fresh air and a break from the students grubbing and grinding for a few extra points , and would feel warm and fuzzy feelings toward such a student . Anybody who teaches ends up with a distorted view of the student population because most of their time is spend dealing with the most problematic and annoying students , while the vast majority of the student body who are having no problems are entirely invisible to them . A reminder of the honesty and integrity of the mostly silent many may thus be quite appreciated .
Contrary to intuition , it is often inappropriate to try to cite well-known and foundational material to its original source . The reason is that you did not actually learn the material in its original form but instead from some modern reinterpretation of that material ( e.g. , in a standard textbook ) . To see why , try reading the original for something like <URL> . First of all , it 's in Latin . Even if you get a translation , however , you 'll find that the notation is strange and difficult to comprehend . That is because even though the fundaments of Newtonian physics have not changed in the centuries since it was discovered , we have improved greatly in our ability to understand and teach the material , as well as in how we integrate it with other material . In short : if it 's textbook material , it is most honest to cite a textbook as your source . Two modifying notes , however : It does n't have to be the textbook that you personally learned from -- any good presentation will do . You only need to cite a textbook if some of your audience may be unfamiliar with the material . In a computer science paper , the <URL> needs no citation ; in an interdisciplinary paper expected to be read by e.g. , economists or biologists , it does need a citation .
In short : <URL> is the traditional measure of mean citations per year shortly after publication . It can refer to either the official Thomson-Reuters computation ( which has lots of problems ) , or other competing similar computations . <URL> attempts to improve on impact factor by using an algorithm like PageRank to more heavily weight citations from " better " publication venues . <URL> for journals is just the same as for people , essentially looking for the volume of consistently good work . The only large place I know of that applies this to journals is <URL> . All of these are subject to manipulation and gaming , all are highly field-dependent , and none are very good actual ratings of quality . Still , they can be used to get a rough sense of the significance of a venue that you are unfamiliar with .
Whether your institution plans to put it online is a question you have to ask them . Whether they are allowed to put it online depends on the policies of the journal where it was published . You will need to read the copyright transfer agreement that you accepted when the paper was published .
Ask your university librarian . Usually universities libraries collaborate with each other . They can look whether the other universities have the book ( I know this happens within Canadian universities ) . .
Scopus counts only peer-reviewed articles . What Google scholar counts is less clearly defined . Intuitively , if something looks like an academic source , then its citations are counted . This means that arXiv is definitely in . I 've seen slides for talks hosted on academic webpages being counted , but not in a very consistent manner . I would suspect that most blogs do n't count . Mathoverflow does not count .
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
I have unfortunately seen these kinds of shenanigans before , so : know you are not alone , whatever cold comfort that may be . This situation has no " pro , " and has the following significant " con : " you are not getting the credit you deserve for your work . In fields where author lists are not ordered alphabetically , order is used to signify the author 's contributions to the paper , and first-author papers are much more important for things like hiring and promotions . I suggest the following steps . 1 . Talk to your advisor Maybe this is just a misunderstanding , or there are other variables in play you 're not aware of ( unlikely , but possible - see <URL> ) . Have a conversation with your advisor to see if you can clear this up . Here 's your opener : I thought that in IT , usually the student who did most of the work is the first author and the advisor is the last - this is the case in all the papers I have read . Why do you propose a different order ? 2 . Run , do n't walk This behavior is typically an indication that either your advisor is completely unaware of conventions in your field ( charitable interpretation ) , or your advisor is aware of the authorship conventions and is deliberately violating them to your disadvantage , which is extremely unethical behavior . In either case , this means that your advisor is simply unsuitable to be an advisor , to anyone , and you should find another one as soon as humanly possible . 3 . If all else fails If you are stuck with this advisor for some reason1 , be prepared for a very bumpy ride . This is not likely to be the last stunt he/she pulls . However , you can at least try to argue your case : there is some advice on the subject <URL> , although that question does not specifically address the case where the advisor is demanding first authorship for him/herself . 1This site is full of students who insist on staying with a completely unsuitable advisor , for one reason or another . I suspect <URL> .
As you 've described it , this sounds rather odd . Reviewers are under no obligation to accept a paper to review , so to accept one and then submit what sounds from your description like a complete cop-out is strange behaviour . It 's also a bit odd for the editor to send you completely uninformative comments . It 's possible that they genuinely did write a review , but that the text has been copied mistakenly , either by the reviewer or by the editor . It might therefore be worth sending a brief email to the editor to enquire about this review . Something along the lines of : " Thank you for consideration of our paper . In the copy that I received one of the reviews does not contain any comments , only text from our paper . I just wanted to double-check that the correct version has been sent through , in order to make sure that I can respond effectively to all of the reviewers . " Be very polite , and make sure you phrase it as a request for clarification , rather than a complaint . If it turns out it was their genuine review , you are of course allowed to care - it 's a bit frustrating if one of the reviewers has not fulfilled their role properly . But it 's not a big deal , and there 's not much that you can or should do about it . Some journals only get comments from two reviewers anyway , so just think of it that way and ignore the third .
Excellent question ! I put it down as experience anyway , but it seems to be shrugged off more often than not , as it was considered necessary as part of a degree . When I was applying for jobs , I got a call from one where the guy went over my resume over the phone , saying things like " And you do n't have ANY industry experience ? You did n't even do an intership ? What were you doing over your summers ? " to which I could only give the flabbergasted reply " Doing ... research ... " So , yea , I 'd definitely put it down as experience . But do n't think that people will necessarily take it too seriously , sad to say .
As I understand it , " reapply " is merely a technical term in mathjobs and this should cause no problems . See , for example , the statement " Update ( re-apply ) applications as many times as you like , or whenever you have new info to add " in <URL> . I do n't know why mathjobs uses the term " reapply , " which certainly has the potential to cause confusion . I ca n't guarantee that nobody will hold it against you , but I 'd be very surprised if anyone did ( and I think it would be a big mistake on their part ) . Updating your application may not be enough if it has already been read . I 'd recommend also e-mailing key people you would like to work with to let them know about your new paper once it is on the arXiv . Of course you should n't spam large numbers of people , but sending out an announcement is perfectly appropriate if you restrict it to people who would genuinely like to hear about the paper for mathematical reasons , and not just as an advertisement for hiring you .
Like a lot of things in academia , I think this will heavily depend on what discipline you 're in . In computer science for example , while there 's nothing wrong with a book chapter , a paper at a conference or in a journal is typically more valuable . The reason normally given is that papers are peer reviewed ( as compared to edited ) , so they are somehow more ' valid ' . Having said that , there 's always myriad exceptions . Writing a whole book that everyone uses is much better than a few papers . Later in the career , book chapters perhaps gain value as they 're a mark of respect and prestige ( once you 've already proven your research ability ) . As a counter-point though , from my limited experience , it seems that book chapters are much more common in bioinformatics and operations research , and thus are viewed more highly . Talk to fellow academics in your area , their opinion will be the best guide .
end question
start question
Is it common to include foreign terms in the title of a thesis ?
In anthropology , it 's pretty common to use local terms in both the title and subtitle . Almost everyone romanizes the terms rather than using the native script . And they leave explanations and glosses to the body of the dissertation itself . That being said , when it comes time to submit to a book publisher , they 're more hesitant about local terms in titles . The issue is that they are legible only to people who already know the local language or culture , so you 've automatically limited the appeal of your book . But there have been some notable exceptions : Travesti : Sex , Gender , and Culture Among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes Toms and Dees : Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand The Soul of Anime : Collaborative Creativity and Japan 's Media Success Story In the examples above , the exceptions prove the rule by either being obvious to English speakers ( " travesti " = ? transvestite ? ) , close to English ( " Tom " is obvious , " Dee " adds an element of curiousity ) , or already a loan word in English ( " anime " ) .
Unless you won a huge amount of awards , I would be quite specific : " John Doe award from XYZ university for best master thesis in 2014 " . Even when you have won many awards , it still makes sense to be specific about the most important ones , and be brief about the others .
My supervisor asked me to make an Abbreviations and Symbols part to my thesis This is a reasonable request : when there are many symbols , a list can be definitely helpful to the reader . Now , obviously I wo n't put every variable ( and abbreviation ) into this list . You wo n't put every variable , but you surely want to put any abbreviation . What should the criteria be for putting an entry to the list ? I suggest you to put : special quantities which are defined in your work ; special operators and functions ; mathematical spaces ; and all the abbreviations , even those you think are well known in your field . I also have tried to explain the variables where I 'm using them , is this now redundant when done in conjunction with the list ? No , it 's not redundant because a list of symbols does not typically give the complete definition , but just a short one . Actually , it would be also useful to list the page number where a certain symbol has been defined for the first time . Additionally , should the symbols and abbreviations appear in the list in alphabetical or appearance order ? If you can define an alphabetical order , go for it . Unfortunately , this is not always possible ( in a universally recognized way ) with symbols . In any case , I 'd separate symbols and abbreviations .
Google yielded <URL> : Book/article titles and names written in Latin-based scripts ( French , Spanish , German , etc. ) can be cited with only minor adjustments . Provide a translation of the title in square brackets . Do not translate names written in Latin-based scripts . Titles and names written in non-Latin scripts ( Chinese , Arabic , Russian , etc. ) must be transliterated before translating and citing . If you are uncomfortable transliterating material yourself , do n't guess -- get help ! Titles should be transliterated and translated into English . Names should be transliterated ( not translated ) and arranged in " Western " order , e.g. , ordered by surname in reference list . ( Follow the link to see examples )
Usually , a postdoc is a normal contract between an employer and an employee , and as such , terminating it earlier than its date depends on the contract and/or the country . It should be normally specified on the contract , otherwise the laws of the country should apply . For instance , in the UK , I have had a notice of 1 month , in Italy , it was 3 months . It is normally acceptable for a postdoc to leave before the end of the contract , although it depends on the situation . If the employer does not provide any guarantee for further employment , and if the postdoc has found another offer , starting earlier than the end of the current contract , then that 's the rule of the game . If the postdoc has found a much better offer ( for instance , a permanent position ) , then that 's also the rule of the game . If personal reasons are involved ( going with a partner , going back to home country , etc ) , that 's quite fair . By acceptable , I mean that the employer should normally not make any problem ( assuming the legal obligations are fulfilled ) , and might even be supportive in the end of the contract . A case that might not be acceptable is to leave in the middle of a contract , breaking some work commitment ( e.g. , an experiment to run ) for a reason that might not appear very strong . But in the end , it depends a lot on the relationship between the postdoc and the employer . The point to remember is that Academia is a small world , and that in general , it is worth keeping good relationship with former employers . In doubt , talk with your current employer , or with a mentor at the place you 're working at to know what the rule normally is .
No . The nice thing about most academic departments is that the <URL> is fairly high such that if an individual PI is incapacitated , there is generally enough slack in the system to compensate . Most funding bodies allow for contingencies . They understand that things happen and that the funding often affects people other than the PI . In the case of the death of a PI , the funder would likely allow for a change in PI to take place . If there is not a single PI who has the required administrative and scientific experiences , co-PIs can be appointed ( e.g. , someone who has managed grants before and a post-doc who understands the research ) . Experiments being run by PhD students , post docs , and RAs , would likely continue unchanged . Experiments being run directly by the PI would probably cease immediately unless there were ethical concerns ( think a drug trial ) . In these cases there is probably someone else involved or a contingency plan in place . Supervision of PhD students would likely be covered by someone else on the thesis committee . Teaching and committee responsibilities would simply be reassigned . Immediate teaching duties will often be given to a post doc or graduate student .
That is totally fine , many people do a master thesis in an official cooperation with a company . University has n't hired you for your studies , and the diploma is not your " payment " . Who might be in trouble is your professor and his company , if he has n't cleared this with the university officials . Because he has a contract with the university , and they have some rights to your results , because they provided the lab , provided your professor , etc. .
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
I think I have a similar process to the one described by Artem ( apart from the popular talk , which I never had the opportunity to do ) . In any case , I never write a script . Actually , for my first talk in English , during my first year of PhD , I learned the talk by heart , which was terrible , and made me finish the talk in 12 minutes instead of the 20 minutes . However , I try to carefully prepare my transitions , especially between different parts of the talk . I find it particularly annoying when a speaker finishes a part with a blank , moves to the next slide , and says something like " OK , next section now " . Moreover , I usually include in a transition a brief summary of the key points of the previous section , and the motivation to go to the next section , which ensures that I do n't forget any important point . About how early should the preparation be ready , it depends on the kind of talks . For a 20/25 minutes conference talk presenting a paper , I usually already have a pretty clear idea of what I want to present and how to structure it ( since I wrote the paper ) , so I start the slides about a week before the conference , have a decent draft 2 or 3 days before ( i.e. the final number of slides , the correct titles ) , and the final version the day before . As Artem 's said , after a while , you can project pretty accurately the duration of a talk from your slides , so there is no need to repeat to make sure you are in time . For a 45/50 minutes seminar-kind talk , it 's a bit trickier , because usually the audience is not the same as the one at a conference , and it 's harder not to bore them . So I start preparing the slides about a month before , but only to get the outline , and I start working on the talking part , not so much the slides , to try to find nice ways to present the ideas ( such as nice examples , nice analogies ) . So , in summary , to answer your questions : It is not very common ( I actually do n't know anyone who does it ) . It can help if the speaker is very nervous , and tends to forget a lot of important things ( which often disappears with experience ) . It depends on the experience , and the ability to evaluate your presentation . If you feel very confident , you can start preparing the presentation the night before . But in general , I 'd say that something between a week before and the day before is good . EDIT : As aeismail mentioned , my answer is quite subjective , and just describe what works for me and for some people I know . However , just one point I would add , concerning the " awkward pauses " : I think that the quality of my presentations has tremendously increased when I stopped preparing my presentation around my slides , but the other way around . So I dropped all sentences like " this slide presents ... " , " on this slide , we have the definition ... " , etc. . Actually , I even try not to say the words that are on the slides . I do n't know if my presentation are better for the audience , but at least , I feel much more comfortable with them .
This reasoning is Wrong and Bad in several ways . First , computing " mean impact factor " for a person or group is insane and should be resisted at all costs . Even amongst IF-crazy groups , the metric is generally how many high-IF publications have been obtained ( ignoring low-IF publications ) , not the fraction of high-IF publications . Second , even if you 're going to commit yourself to such insanity , the reasonable mathematical interpretation of " no impact factor " is " IF = 0 " , not " omit from data . " Thus , if you 're using this crazy statistic , it should be worse to publish in a no-IF venue . Finally , a journal with no IF generally falls into one of two categories : either it is good but very new ( or just not yet covered by ISI ) , in which case it will likely have an IF in a couple of years and the strategy will be undone , or else is it complete trash and likely predatory , in which case it will be a worse stain on your record than a moderate-IF publication , even amongst the most IF-crazy communities . My only possible conclusions are that either : your supervisor is seriously distorted in their thinking , or your supervisor is lying to you out of embarrassment to cover the fact that they published ( intentionally or accidentally ) in a trash/predatory journal .
Working from a bibliography in another paper is not plagiarism . It 's actually a good research technique . As you read those papers , check their bibliographies , too , and so on . Pretty soon you will have thorough coverage of the subject . Do note that you can not just plop those 50-60 or so references into your own bibliography but do nothing else , nor paraphrase what someone else has said about them , but without reading them . That 's called reference padding and is academic misconduct . You have to actually read the papers . When you do that , you may find that some of them do n't fit your needs as well as you may have at first thought . You will also find it easy to write your own thoughts about those papers , and so will not have to worry about paraphrasing another author .
If you are writing a research paper it is quite difficult not to have a question in some form . The purpose of the introduction is to set your study ( question/gap of knowledge or what have you ) in perspective , to narrow the focus down from a slightly bigger picture to the gap you are trying to fill or narrow even further with your study . Even if your paper is a review , you are doing a review for some specific purpose . So , you may be thinking too narrowly if you think of a question as a sentence with a question mark , the focus of your paper will be your research question , usually a gap in knowledge where you through your study takes our knowledge beyond the current limits .
It 's usually somewhere in between : the thesis topic is negotiated between the student and advisor . Usually an advisor will have some topics already in mind , and can suggest them . The student can also suggest topics in which he or she is interested , and the advisor can decide if they would be appropriate . In the end , of course , they both have to agree . It could also fall closer to one end of the spectrum or the other , depending on the advising style of the advisor . Some advisors might insist on one of the projects they have in mind , as they may not have the expertise or interest for any of the student 's suggested topics . Or they might think the student 's suggestions would be too easy , too hard , too obscure , etc. . Other advisors may not have many topic ideas of their own , or consider that it is good experience for a student to find their own topic .
Your concern that this is " risky " is somewhat vague , but generally , I 'd say that working on something like this is extremely common . I 've never " cleanly " finished a project , where it is fully wrapped up , with nothing else to do right as my degree was awarded , I moved to a new position , etc. . I 'd say it 's extremely common , and if you think that extra work might result in a publication , fairly valuable . There is the possibility of things being too demanding , but generally people are pretty understanding of other obligations that come up , especially if you let them know in advance .
Ultimately , you and your co-authors are responsible for the contents of your manuscript . You can cite abstracts of works you have n't read in full , in any language , including your native tongue . However , misuse of such abstracts can always be called out by the reviewers of your paper . You will be responsible for defending your choices in the review process , if need be . Ultimately , however , citing a foreign-language abstract ultimately is no different than citing one in English . The exact details depend on the citation format for the journal you intend to submit to , so check their guidelines . In general , you do not translate titles of articles or journals into their English language equivalent ( unless the journals have done so themselves ! ) .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
As alluded to in the comments , there is no generic " right " answer : the number will depend strongly on the nature of your thesis , the state of the literature related to it , and your personal scholastic style . Nevertheless , in the spirit of engineering approximations , I will supply you with some rough guidelines . As a lower bound , I would be startled if it was possible to place most theses within the context of pre-existing work in less than about 20 references . In certain contexts such as an obscure corner of pure mathematics perhaps this might be possible , but in most cases work does not take place in a vacuum , and other people will have either used similar techniques or cared about similar problems in the past . As an upper bound , I would be concerned with a thesis with on the order of 200 or more references that the student has n't been doing enough work on their own original research and has been investing too much time and energy in building a literature review , rather than a thesis . Again , there will likely be cases where a thesis with an extremely high number of references would be reasonable , but these are likely to be unusual . Notice the extremely wide range and suspiciously round numbers in my estimates : really there is no " right " answer for how many there should be in general , but perhaps these will help with some initial first impressions in one 's thinking .
In the U.S. , " professor emeritus " simply means " retired professor " . It 's a courtesy title offered to retiring professors to acknowledge their continued scholarly role even after formal retirement . It typically includes library privileges and a computer account , and emeritus professors may also have offices ( this depends on departmental policy and the availability of space ) . It 's sometimes possible to teach , but this is a special arrangement rather than a job requirement . At many universities every retired faculty member is offered this title , with rare exceptions for people who committed misconduct or angered the administration . At other universities one has to apply for the title and make a case for why it is justified . In particular , professor emeritus is not a higher title or special distinction . It can be viewed as a retirement incentive : even after retirement , you 'll still have a respected role as well as necessities like library access . However , there 's no advantage to becoming an emeritus professor beyond the benefits of retiring from your job ( i.e. , giving up duties and focusing only on what you prefer ) .
They refer to the number of classes you teach in each semester . ie 2:1 would mean two classes one semester and one the other . Three numbers ( like 3:2:3 ) refer to the number of classes in each quarter for schools on the quarter system ( i.e. , three terms per academic year ) . [ Thanks to Mark Meckes ] Not all courses are the same size , although I suspect that the vast majority are the standard " 3 credit hour " size . A minority but reasonable number of courses , though , are 4 credit hours ( particularly in my area , math ) . A few courses are even 5 credit hours at some institutions . It depends on the field to a great extent . Nevertheless , the number of courses is still very important . Teaching a four-hour and a five-hour course for a 2-course load is less work , usually , than teaching three different 3-hour courses . [ Thanks to Oswald Veblen ]
While I agree that it would be OK to open a pdf of the thesis to show a specific part as an answer to a question I would like to add : Opening up the thesis and show something in addition to the slides in the middle of the talk would show that the talk was not well prepared . So do n't do that and prepare your talk such that this will not be necessary . Having answers and arguments to questions ready without going to the thesis would appear better . Of course , nobody expects you to know every word from your thesis but it is expected that you know all results of your thesis and also all your arguments . Opening the thesis when a question like " on page X in Theorem Y you state that ... " comes is totally OK . Especially , since this gives the rest of the audience the chance to follow the discussion . But finally : It 's a thesis defense . It usually not an event where anybody fails terribly . If you know what you have written about and know what you are talking about nothing bad will happen .
end question
start question
What does in-major classes mean ?
In-major means classes related to your major . In your case , these would be all the Computer Engineering classes you have taken as well as any major requirements from outside the department . These do not include classes required by the school ( e.g. writing requirements ) or high level classes from outside the department that do not related to your major .
Let me clear up an important distinction between graduate school in the US and the UK : In Europe , the master 's degree is generally a pre-requisite for admission to a PhD program . In the US , the master 's degree is not required for admission to a PhD program , and you normally apply to the PhD program with only a bachelor 's degree . You can obtain a master 's degree as part of the PhD program , but this is by no means a universal requirement . It varies between universities and even departments within a university . In the UK , options are somewhat ambiguous . You can apply for a master 's and PhD program at the same time , while others may require the PhD in advance . Therefore , if you are admitted to an American PhD program , you will take courses in graduate school , because that is the equivalent of the master 's phase in the UK . Other than that , there 's no inherent advantage of applying or attending bachelor 's or master 's programs in the US or the UK .
This answer is meant to apply to graduate students ( like the OP ) . Talk to your advisor . She is the designated person to help you with your research . You should do so because : 1 ) Your advisor will probably have some help to offer . Give them more than one chance to do so , and be clear in communicating how much help you want/need at any given time . In your case I believe you said earlier that you talked to your advisor and got some but not enough help , because she only thought about your problem when you were there . To me that is the opposite of strange : being a thesis advisor myself , I recognize it as the classic tension inherent in the job . How much help do you give the student ? How much time you do spend thinking about the student 's problem so as to be able to give help ? There are usually no easy answers to these questions . Even in dealing with the same student , over time I often find myself : giving too much help ; giving too little help ; being put in a situation where the question they ask is too hard for me to give an answer on the spot and then having to try to find time for outside thoughts about their question . When you talk to your advisor , make sure she understands that you feel so stuck in your research that you are considering seeking outside help . 2 ) If you get outside help without telling your advisor about it , it could be embarrassing to her . It can be tough to ask the same person for help on the same thing more than once . But it is part of the advisor/advisee relationship . If my students showed up on SE sites asking questions that I feel that I could have answered , I would not feel great about it . ( Most of my negative feelings would be directed to myself rather than at them , but still : not great . ) 3 ) If you are truly stuck , your advisor needs to know . It very often happens that the best thing to do is to switch to working on a different aspect of the problem , or perhaps a different problem entirely . Your advisor is the one to help you with that . Let me also say that in the realm of mathematically-related research , two weeks is a fairly short amount of time to be working on something . If after two weeks you are completely out of ideas and do n't even know what else to try , then you should address that . If you simply have n't proved the " major theorem " yet : join the club . To prove a major theorem usually takes me at least two months ; two years is not at all unheard of , and is not a maximum . As long as you 're making some progress thinking about the problem , I do n't necessarily see anything wrong here . Added : The lack of directness of my answer was intentional , but let me add one comment . In my opinion the greatest risk in asking in the internet community for help in solving your mathematical research problem is ... that someone will solve your mathematical research problem . As mentioned above , your advisor is optimally briefed in the matter of how much help to give you / how any one question fits into the larger scheme of your research program , and still advising a student is a matter of successive errors and corrections ( i.e. , helping too much and too little ) . Being a PhD student has a highly egoistic aspect to it : you are not just trying to find solutions to problems ; you are trying to find them yourself . There is a real risk that the right expert will simply leave you without a problem to be working on . This is why talking your advisor is so critical : she may in fact decide at some point that asking for help is best , but in that case she will know exactly what and whom to ask in such a way that the rug is least likely to get pulled out from under you . This is very important !
First of all , is there hard data that shows how many PhDs by discipline get published as a book ? I doubt there are meaningful data available on this . I do n't think total number of " thesis-books " is meaningful since this would depend on the size of the field . The percentage of thesis-books would ignore drop out ( although potentially drop out rates are consistent across fields ) . My understanding of tenure and promotion committee meetings is that at top universities , the representatives from STEM fields discount books while the representatives from the humanities discount journal articles . At lower ranked schools , where research productivity is less , fewer books are published . Does the student themselves seek to publish or does their supervisor/committee/department inform the student that they think their material could be a book . Most of the so called " book " fields publish single author papers and books . The student ( or former student ) seeks to get the material published as a book . Do the publishing companies actively seek material to publish or expect the author to approach them . A little bit of both . The publishers encourage authors who they think are doing good research to submit a " book proposal " , but they get hundreds of unsolicited proposals . Are there other factors unique to the Humanities that mean the book is a preferred publishing route ? In some ways the optimal publishing strategy for a humanities thesis is to carve one chapter from the thesis into a journal article and have this published in a good journal . Book publishers are okay with some of the material being previously published ( as long as copyright issues can be handled ) . This article/chapter then becomes the basis of the book proposal that is used to " sell " the book idea to the publisher . The problem with this approach is that for many theses in the humanities , craving out a single chapter is difficult . The research problems that humanities students tackle are simply larger in scope than the problems STEM students tackle and the problems can not be neatly subdivided . So to round up , what are the main factors that mean Humanities PhDs appear to often get published as book ? Historically , in the US PhD students in the Humanities would do multiple years of " field work " ( often in archives , but sometimes in the actual field ) and tenure at R1 institutions is based on one or two books being published . In the UK , the shorter PhD duration and the pressure of the REF to have 4 publications , leads to many more thesis being published as articles . The type of PhD projects conducted in book and article based cultures varies significantly .
Write one thesis , so you only have to write one introduction and discussion section , and only have to go through the thesis formatting nightmare once . If you prefer two small projects , you can make two projects two separate chapters for your thesis and just try and figure out a way to relate them in your introduction and discussion . Make the title of your thesis sound applicable to the field of study you want to get your masters in ( no one will read your undergrad thesis on the admissions committee and I doubt anyone will care whether you wrote two theses or one ) . You say you have a low GPA . Perhaps two smaller projects ( still for one thesis ) will allow you to collaborate with two different professors . Why is this advantageous ? Because that is potentially two very strong letters of recommendation . Many undergrads have one good letter of recommendation and the rest are just professors that taught a course they took . If you have two very strong letters , that is quite impressive , and will do more to get you into graduate school than anything related to your thesis , short of publishing it in a peer reviewed journal .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
Generally " archival quality " implies some level of " completeness " and comprehensiveness ( to the degree that any work of science and engineering can really be " complete . " ) In many fields , early work can be published in some conferences , but journal papers that are expected to be " archival quality " are supposed to be more mature . To quote from this <URL> : Conference papers are usually short , and deal with very recent research results or new ideas illustrated by preliminary experiments . An archival journal paper , on the contrary , contains an overview of the state-of-the-art ( with references to other 's and one 's own past work ) , a problem statement , the concept of a solution , a discussion of the theoretical background , experimental set-up , sound measurement data , an evaluation of the results , discussion and conclusions -- a much more complete presentation of the overall project and its results .
Right , the IP &amp; Science business of Thomson Reuters ( the business formerly known as ISI ) curates the indexes Web of Science and Current Contents Connect . The journal coverage in those two is almost identical . Thomson Reuters then creates some data products from the Web of Science and Current Contents Connect data , such as the Journal Impact Factors . Other indexes that are important in computer science include IEEE Xplore and ACM Digital Library . There are also more open indexes such as DBLP and CiteSeerX . Thomson Reuters <URL> as a principle it uses to include or exclude journals . The general idea is to include some 12,000 journals that are well woven into the network of scholarly citations , viewed broadly . I have read more than once that computer science is unusual in the value it places on conference papers . That fact may help to explain limitations in the collection of conferences in the Web of Science collection . I am not certain whether or not the collection strategy for Web of Science specifically takes into account that computer science is unusual in that way . The Web of Knowledge product that provides access to the Web of Science collection happens to have a more subject-specific collection called Inspec available for subscription . That is a bibliographic collection curated by the Institution of Electronics and Technology that historically was the UK 's counterpart to IEEE . Not every institution that subscribes to Web of Knowledge elects to include Inspec in its subscription . Conversely , Web of Knowledge is not the only way to access the Inspec collection - although I believe it is the only way that is cross-referenced with Web of Science .
From what you 've said by itself , it 's ambiguous . That is , if your paper really is on a topic not usually covered by that journal , then their remark is completely bland , just meaning what it says . If , at the other extreme , you are pretty sure that your paper 's topic is exactly what is covered in the journal , then , yes , their " recommendation " is just a polite form of rejection . If you are a beginner at this , it is possible that your understanding of what your own paper is about may have some quirks or limitations , or you 've presented it in a way that dis-served you , or you 've presented it in a way that confused or mis-directed the editors/referee , etc. . For example , giving inappropriate/inaccurate keywords can get a paper sent to an inappropriate referee , who may think the paper is misguided , while if you 'd given different keywords , a different referee might think it was mainstream and wonderful . Similarly , unfortunate choices in title , abstract , and introduction can set things off down the wrong path . Getting an opinion from an experienced person about the actual appropriateness of your paper for that venue is necessary before it 's possible to understand the situation .
[ Citation ] means that Google Scholar has not been able to find a source for the publication , but that it has inferred that it exists because other publications cite it . Taken directly from Google Scholar help " These are articles which other scholarly articles have referred to , but which we have n't found online . To exclude them from your search results , uncheck the " include citations " box on the left sidebar . "
If the acceptance rate of a university is 90 % , does that mean it accepts 90 students from 100 that applied ? Yes . Does the acceptance rate of universities indicate the quality of them ? No , not particularly . For example , it 's possible to get a good education at an institution with open admissions . It 's true that low acceptance rates are correlated with quality , for at least two reasons . A university that is perceived as being of high quality will often receive more applications than it has space available for students , and being able to choose high-achieving students will help create an academically stimulating atmosphere and enable the university to offer more demanding courses . However , this correlation is far from perfect . Acceptance rates are essentially a popularity contest : you are measuring a combination of how many students apply and how many accept an offer of admission . Like most popularity contests , they only tell you so much . It 's also worth noting that these statistics can be intentionally skewed by universities . Because college rankings in the U.S. often involve acceptance rates , some schools have adapted by deliberately advertising to try to attract applications from students they have no interest in admitting ( increasing the total number of applications decreases the acceptance rate ) . This makes the acceptance rate even less meaningful than it used to be . Added in response to Kimball 's question about references : I do n't know of a definitive reference . It 's widely believed to be happening , but it 's difficult to prove since who would admit it ? ( Instead of saying " we 're soliciting mediocre applications just to be able to reject them , " any competent admissions director would say " we 're casting a wide net to make sure talented students do n't get overlooked . " ) Certainly schools that are concerned about their rankings are trying hard to get more applications ; see , for example , <URL> , which suggests but does n't explicitly say that Northeastern is more concerned about the number of additional applications than their quality ( the closest it comes is " The more applications NU could drum up , the more students they could turn away , thus making the school appear more selective " ) . See also <URL> , which discusses attracting more applications as a form of ranking manipulation ( but attributes this information to unnamed admissions directors and does n't mention any concrete examples ) . For comparison , seeking more applications is not so extreme : Clemson has been <URL> of far more dramatic forms of ranking manipulation .
In this context reviewer and referee are basically synonymous . In mathematics I think referee is more common , but I think in some other fields reviewer is used more often . In mathematics , " reviewer " also can mean someone who writes a review of a published paper , such as on <URL> , but in the context of journal submissions this usage is not relevant . In my experience though I have never seen a list of reviewers from which you can select though , only to choose the editor that handles your submission . But perhaps some journals do offer this possibility .
At every level of education , the purpose of office hours is to give students an open-ended opportunity to discuss the material that they are learning with their instructors , and particularly to get help and clarification in their understanding . As an instructor , I found it greatly frustrating when students ( or any level ) reduce this opportunity into simply asking for help on homework questions . I believe there are many other instructors who feel the same . In fact , I felt so strongly about this that I personally had a policy of refusing to help with homework questions per se , and would instead offer to work a related but different problem in order to try to get the student to learn the material rather than just solve the problem . I find this attitude most widespread amongst undergraduates , but many graduate students have it to . Hopefully , you are actually interested in the material that you are learning , rather than just your grade . That attitude , then , can easily translate into requests for help that are about the material , rather than the problems . For example , consider : " Can you help me with problem 5 ? " vs. " Problem 5 made me realize I do n't really understand Urysohn 's Lemma . Can you help me understand that better ? " Whether graduate or undergraduate , if you ask questions of the second sort , any good instructor who cares about their students ' learning is likely to appreciate it .
I wrote him an email to ask quick but important questions , like , when do you want me to start . I did n't get an answer even after a week . And similar things happened before as well . Some professors are notoriously bad in answering emails . This does not necessarily mean anything . Do n't fret about it . So I want to ask that as a professor , sometimes will you ( on purpose ) to NOT answer emails in time ? I 'm not a professor , but , no , this is not how I would expect an adult person ( in a management position , none the less ) to behave . If the professor is indeed having second thoughts about you and decided to just not answer anymore , I would say you dodged a bullet there . However , I really think that this is unlikely . Just send a polite reminder , or propose to have a quick chat e.g. , over Skype , at a time of the professor 's convenience .
An educated guess is that the manuscript handling system by default expects two reviews . The number of reviews required for a decision can usually be changed by the editor . A reason for adding reviews is that you receive , for example and in the worst case , one accept and one reject from the two reviewers . It is therefore reasonable for an editor to search for additional reviewers to provide a better basis for a decision . Another reason can be that one or both of the original reviewers left reviews but they were deemed unconstructive and the need for additional reviews arose from the lack of reasonable feedback . There can be many other reasonable explanations as well , these are just examples . Anyway , in this case , it is possible that the editors have not bothered to change the number of required reviews to 4 ( which I assume the total would be ) . The system then shows that all reviews are in and that the manuscript should be decided upon . So hopefully , the editor will try to get speedy reviews and get back to you with useful feedback on your manuscript .
Web of science does n't explain it on the page you quote , but you can find it in another page with detailed explanation : " The plus sign on this last abbreviation indicates that cites to the original language journal are unified with cites to the translation title " From here : <URL>
First a disclaimer : I personally do not agree with some " ways of life " I am going to describe and already upvoted other answers :-) . is it possible to be a researcher without concerning about " Publish or perish " ? YES , albeit probably only in atypical settings . firstly , at this site , we tend to forget that academia is not only the first league of the few top-notch research universities , but includes a MASS of smaller universities and research institutes in all sorts of small , hidden corners of the world which tend either not to produce academic output in terms of journal articles , books , conference papers , etc. , but at which they live and breath by e.g. , primarily education , local politics , etc. . Yet , on paper they claim to do research , so working there , you would be officially a researcher . I am speaking for instance about universities in countries , where rigorous science and high education , for whatever reasons , does not have a very strong tradition . At such places , doing research would resemble a kind of a <URL> . Most often , at least at some stage in the career , you still need to publish something . E.g. a dissertation would probably suffice . But often an interview with such a researcher in a local newspaper would count at the place more than a first-class academic journal . Being coined an expert on X by the local media a single time would allow you to survive at such a university for a decade ( at any level from a PhD student to a Full Professor ) without being concerned with perishing . If there is a desperate lack of teaching staff , then you do not have to care even for being any good teacher either and you would n't perish . I know personally people who are are doing some research ( or at least everybody around says so ) for decades without moving from a place and without publishing even a technical report and do not perish . to a more optimistic note , though being pedantic now , you can easily be a researcher and not publish in the industry . Many industrial researchers do not primarily work for the benefit of the humankind ( as you could see said in academia ) , but for the benefit of a company . finally , I speculate there could be some special professorship positions where you do not have to worry about publishing anymore , because you are not about to perish anymore .
I 'll assume you are talking about a department that admits students via a single admissions committee ( rather than offers from individual professors or groups , in which case all bets are off regarding the timing ) . As a general rule , getting an offer earlier is a sign that the committee is more interested , but that does n't mean the actual offer will be better in any concrete sense . Often there will be a first wave of offers , which may be followed by additional offers depending on how many people seem likely to accept . Sometimes the further offers are explicitly described as a waiting list , but sometimes the only distinguishing factor is that they come later in time .
They refer to the number of classes you teach in each semester . ie 2:1 would mean two classes one semester and one the other . Three numbers ( like 3:2:3 ) refer to the number of classes in each quarter for schools on the quarter system ( i.e. , three terms per academic year ) . [ Thanks to Mark Meckes ] Not all courses are the same size , although I suspect that the vast majority are the standard " 3 credit hour " size . A minority but reasonable number of courses , though , are 4 credit hours ( particularly in my area , math ) . A few courses are even 5 credit hours at some institutions . It depends on the field to a great extent . Nevertheless , the number of courses is still very important . Teaching a four-hour and a five-hour course for a 2-course load is less work , usually , than teaching three different 3-hour courses . [ Thanks to Oswald Veblen ]
Not always . At some universities ( such as the one where I presently work , the official decision to admit a student is made at the dean 's level , rather than the departmental level . In such cases , the department recommends admission ; such recommendations are almost always accepted , unless something irregular has happened in the admissions process .
end question
start question
Has there ever been a pure mathematics thesis longer than 909 pages ?
I am not sure that this is a good question , because the length of a thesis is obviously highly dependent on factors such as line spacing . Having said that , it is possible to give a definitive answer to the question as written , even in the restrictive form asking about pure mathematics : Yes . From MathSciNet : Lan , Kai-Wen Arithmetic compactifications of PEL-type Shimura varieties . Thesis ( Ph.D. ) -- Harvard University . 2008 . 1077 pp . <URL> .
At least for most graduate programs in pure mathematics in the US , there 's no need to have a specialization in mind when applying . [ This may be very different in other countries . ] It 's valuable to demonstrate in your application that you have studied some serious mathematics , by discussing undergraduate research or advanced coursework . However , there 's no implication that you intend to focus on the same fields in graduate school . It 's common to indicate an interest in a few possible specialties , usually at a level of detail ranging from " algebra " to " analytic number theory " . If you are completely undecided , then that could come across negatively , by suggesting a general lack of enthusiasm . However , being too specific is also problematic . Matching a possible advisor too closely comes across as pandering , while being specific without matching anyone makes it look like you are n't a good fit for this particular department . Overall , the general feeling is that incoming graduate students do n't know enough to make well-informed decisions about specialization , and that anything they say is a little unreliable because their interests may shift as they learn more . From that perspective , it 's not worth worrying about this too much . As for talking with professors , at least at the schools I 'm familiar with this will not increase the chances of admission ( the decisions are made by a committee ) . After you 've been admitted , it 's important to talk with faculty and try to gauge the chances of finding a suitable advisor . However , that can and should wait until February .
It happens all the time . I think it is the reviewer 's responsibility to respond to the editor saying that he or she has already seen the paper . Then it 's the editor 's call . Ideally the paper would be sent to a new reviewer , but depending on the subject of the paper the pool of available referees might be small enough that the editor requests the reviewer to reread the paper anyway .
Finally , I contacted CWU 's library and was told by an archivist that Knuth indeed graduated from the Case Institute of Technology with a BSc and an MSc simultaneously in 1960 . However , he did n't need to present a thesis . It was not a graduation requirement at that time . What a shame !
I would be truly shocked if any hiring committee cared at all about whether you taught calculus versus pre-calculus . Doing well at either would show that you can adequately handle teaching service classes .
A number of people have correctly told you ( I can see the article ) that this is a collection of mathematical puzzles , rather than a research paper . So let me tell you a little more about this type of article . Martin Gardner is considered by many to be the biggest popularizer of recreational mathematics in the 20th century ( perhaps ever ) . For 25 years ( 1956-1981 ) , he wrote a column for Scientific American called <URL> . Many of his columns have been collected into books ( such as <URL> ) . Some other well-known examples of similar writing include that of <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
Yes , you are able to reference their work in your text , as long as you make clear in the bibliography what type of document ( master thesis , PhD thesis , Institution ) it is . However , i would not consider it to be ideal if your work critically depends on such references in the sense that a central assumption or starting point in your thesis breaks down if the reference provides false or incomplete results . Particularly in the case of master theses / dissertations it is not generally clear whether and to which extent they are peer-reviewed and what their overall trustworthiness is . With ( accepted ! ) PhD theses things are better , as these normally go through a review process . Furthermore , for PhD theses i would expect that their main points have been published somewhere ( conference or journal ) and then you clearly should prefer these publications .
Short Answer Do n't be too picky at first , learn about others ' work ; try to come up with some problem < - > solution pairs ; and then you shall find your own path ; when writing them down . Longer Answer Fun Fact : Publishable results are based on published results and some more . You need to do ' the some more ' part , and know the ' published results ' . So : 1 . High Rank Publications and their citations : Find the best publications in the area of your work , and see how they solve the problems and how the present their results and who they cited ; and read and learn them as well . 2 . Narrow Down More and More When Writing Down : Ok , now after reading some papers/journals/books , you want to write something . Here we do the following : 2.1 Problem and Solution ( Potential ) : You might ask what problem I want to work on ? Well the one you know how to solve ! I might go and write a code generator and say : " well , it is fast and ' efficient ' " . How do I know ? Well I do n't know ! I need to check it with others . So , we go to the next phase : 2.2 Evaluation and Background Checks : You start evaluation of your work by others ' approach ( and write about it ) . Must likely your approach is not good enough , so you go back to he first step and update this one . 2.3 Introduction and Evaluation Now you know what you are talking about , you write the introduction and conclusion about it . Then Boom ! you have a paper , that could be published . Find a conference/journal and hope for the best !
I am not aware of initiatives in other countries . However , while VroniPlag started out with examinations of German doctoral theses , it is no longer limited to those . <URL> To the extent that this is a continuing trend , VroniPlag already is an international project . So the answer to the question in your title ( which differs from that in the body ) , whether online community investigations of PhD thesis plagiarism outside Germany exist , is yes .
I 'd go for " Linear Algebra and Matrix Theory " as you 'll need that if you ever need to do any machine learning or computer graphics , both of which are increasingly common " tools " for modern software systems . Learning a bit about graphs too would n't hurt .
I think this one will be very hard to answer with hard data . So , I 'll just throw in some anecdotal evidence , along with a few things learnt from some editors that I know . From a reviewer point of view , it has happened to me exactly twice in a decade ( i.e. very rarely ) to receive an editor 's review saying " I 've reached a decision based on input from other reviewers , and you do not need to review the manuscript " . The first time , the email came as my review was already overdue ( a week or ten days ) , so I suppose the editor asked another reviewer when I did n't reply on time , and the new reviewer was fast to reply . The second time , it was sort of the other way around : I was asked to review a paper , then 5 days later the editor wrote , saying the reviewer who was uncommunicative had finally replied , and my review was no longer needed . He apologized profusely , and offered to actually wait for my review if I had started doing it and wanted to finish . ( I was happy to let it go . ) I think for an editor , growing a list of trustworthy and willing reviewers is crucial . So , they simply can not make them work for nothing ! ( pun intended )
Since you ( marsop ) wrote Austria as place of residence in your profile , you may be interested in the <URL> that lists university library electronic journal subscriptions for most institutions in 5 countries ( Austria , Czech Republic , Germany , Slovakia , Switzerland ) and a few others ( including the Library of Congress in Washington , DC ) . It also supplies information for many non-university libraries that typically have electronic journal subscriptions . To use it , first click on " Choose Institution " on the left side of the page . Then select your institution ( if it is listed ) . If you then search for journals , you will see a color code next to the journal names indicating whether members of the institution have ( electronic ) access to the journal 's content .
During academic job applications , I did not hear back at all from at least two places ( in the UK ) , so I would not assume you will hear back . On the other hand , there was also the situation where I had not heard back from one of my top choices so I contacted them and they told me that someone was supposed to have contacted me two weeks earlier but somehow did n't . It was n't good news , but I had been stalling on agreeing to another position so ultimately it was helpful to just ask , politely obviously . I really do n't think it would hurt your situation , and as others have mentioned , may even help it .
Edited heavily based on further information provided by OP If you are going into industry , or pursuing a Master 's , it may hurt you in the short term A Master 's degree is mostly course work . It 's too short for you to create a body of work that stands on its own . The quality of the courses largely determines , consequently , the quality of the Master 's . Prospective employers may use an institution 's reputation as a heuristic/proxy for the quality teaching . Attending a less prestigious institution will make it more difficult to get interviews . Not being able to attend the bigger names also means you miss out on their alumni networks . Create a compensatory professional network that overcomes these limitations . Most Master 's in CS programs have a semester-long project . Make an impressive project and shop it around . This is a good way to build rapport with potential employers .
You cite precisely the version that you use and add something like " 5th edition " ( that is what the " edition " - entry is there for in BibTeX ) . Be careful to use the correct year !
Some people can buy off a course from their teaching duties in the non-summer months usually at the rate the department would have to pay to hire an adjunct to teach it . Some agencies will allow you to shift the salaries off yourself and onto a student so that maybe you go to 3 weeks from each of 4 grants rather 4 from each and use the saved money to fund some additional student time . This may or may not require permission from the funding agency , but it can usually be done without it as long as the PI is n't reduced to zero time . With the NSF in the US , faculty <URL> to have more than 2 months of time funded across all NSF grants without explicit permission from NSF . Now , if you have 1 DoE grant covering 2 months and 1 NSF grant covering 2 months , they wo n't notice . Some people also finagle this problem when their grants are staggered enough that there 's only a short period ( say one of three years ) where this is an issue by pushing the money off to a future year and then exercising an option for a no-cost extension of one year to spend out the money .
This depends on where you are . In the US , this would generally not be too difficult , particularly if one uses elective courses at the bachelor 's level to take some of the courses in the " new " field . Here in Germany , it would actually be almost impossible to switch as you 've suggested . The reason for this is that the " prerequisite " for enrolling as master 's student in a particular field is usually taken to be the bachelor 's degree in the same field as taught at the university ! This is known as a " consecutive " degree requirement , and makes life very difficult for people coming from outside Germany .
You may if you want to , but it is not generally required . Of course , check your local regulations . It is recommended to plan on having an index or not when you start , rather than adding it later . Indexes were not required in the past , though check historical local regulations .
I 'd just pretend that you stumbled across a paper , rather than say you reviewed it on your blog . And you should not make comments about the pre-published version of the paper . This could be embarrassing for the author , and seriously violates the trust embodied in the reviewing process .
Contact the editor of the journal , present your suspicions , and be prepared to submit evidence supporting your claim .
end question
start question
Does ' securing letters of recommendations ' count as one of legitimate reasons of going abroad for one semester ?
No , you should n't mention securing letters of recommendation in your personal statement . It sounds a little too mercenary , like you are more interested in bureaucratic outcomes like letters than you are in actually learning . It may hurt the feelings of faculty from your home institution who read it , and it 's not really what the other institution is looking for in a personal statement . On the other hand , you 're right that this experience could really help in securing compelling letters , and I think it 's sensible for you to take this into account in your ( private ) decision making . If you currently attend a strong research university , then getting letters from an even stronger research university probably wo n't help much . However , there are many students at teaching-focused schools that do n't send many students to graduate school in any given field , and very rarely to the top departments . That makes it harder for faculty to write strong letters of recommendation , because the comparison group is not so good : even if somebody writes " this is the best student I 've seen in 20 years " , it 's not clear that this is in itself a strong enough statement . ( It 's still possible to write a compelling letter if the recommender can offer enough concrete , impressive details , but it makes writing the letter harder and requires the recommender to know the applicant really well . ) If a faculty member can easily compare you with lots of students attending a range of good to great graduate schools , that makes it easier for them to write a useful letter . So if you 're studying in a department that rarely or never sends students to the graduate programs you 'd like to attend , then it 's very much worth trying to get a letter from someone who has a broader perspective on the applicant pool . Otherwise it 's not so important . But either way , you should n't mention it in your personal statement .
I do n't think it should be a problem , provided that you are taking some challenging Math/CS classes among your 4 classes . If it looks like you 're trying to skirt by with the bare minimum difficulty of classes , then taking a couple fewer classes could reinforce that negative narrative . But as long as it looks like you 're taking a challenging course load and doing well , I do n't know that people will even notice the 4 vs. 5 issue ( since there are schools where 4 courses is a normal load ) .
If you do n't have any problems with graduating next semester then just do that . It will give you more time to refine your submissions and to prep for the defense . A little annoying , granted , but it could be a blessing in disguise too . As for working with your adviser , what 's done is done . Perhaps they were delayed in their responses but you may have to accept some of the responsibility here as well , I think . It takes some time to make all of the arrangements for finalizing graduation . It 's not like undergrad where they can just look at the transcript and say " 120cu , good to go " . Heck , just getting a defense scheduled can be a major undertaking . Especially if you 're trying to squeeze in under the wire . Stack the university processing and thesis review times on top of that and you 're really cutting it close . I can certainly understand your frustration ( my M.S. was delayed by a semester due to a similarly inane set of circumstances which led to all kinds of fun ) but my suggestion to you and anyone in a similar situation is to take a deep breath , relax , and use the time that you have to prep as best you can . Aside : This type of advice question is not a very good fit to the normal SO format . I wanted to provide a response since I suspect that many people have gotten into similar situations but have fair warning that it may get flagged .
You could write something like the following . Short and sweet . To the editor , Please find attached an article for consideration for publication in the journal Phytoneuron . I assert that this is an original contribution and it has not been submitted for consideration elsewhere . Could you please acknowledge receipt of this submission ? Best regards , Your name Your Affiliation Title of Article Authors Abstract Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet , consectetur adipiscing elit . Proin egestas odio non mi mattis rhoncus . Vivamus ultrices urna a ante tristique pellentesque . Nam tincidunt lacus a mi sollicitudin tincidunt . Curabitur malesuada , quam sit amet iaculis lobortis , enim lacus commodo turpis , nec elementum mauris libero ac enim . Quisque justo mauris , eleifend id ornare vel , luctus eget tellus . Etiam auctor ultrices tincidunt . Curabitur diam nulla , aliquam nec gravida a , consequat non nulla . Cras viverra massa id felis blandit gravida . Pellentesque enim mi , convallis vitae ornare quis , ornare sit amet dolor . Pellentesque velit urna , feugiat non tincidunt in , sollicitudin sed purus . Phasellus laoreet ligula nec odio mattis fringilla . Fusce sed arcu mi . Pellentesque dictum erat sit amet sapien pharetra porta .
Yes I think It would be different if say , you took one or two of her classes . But it sounds like she advised you a great deal , and thus she should have some investment in your educational success . Especially if you have talked about graduate school before . What is important is you give her notice as soon as possible so she can find some time to do it : Having a newborn is no easy job . I would phrase it as follows : Dear X ( unless you call her professor , then Professor X , but my advisors I call by their first name ) How is your newborn ? I realize you are very busy with your maternity leave , but I was hoping you might have some time to write me a strong letter of recommendation for graduate school . As you might know I am interested in ZQR , and your mentorship over my senior thesis has been essential to my education . Thank you for your time , user I 'd also like to add that while I was applying to PhD programs , the professor who eventually became my advisor was on maternity leave while I was asking her questions about the lab . In confidence , she enjoyed my emails because having newborns , while a joy most of the time , often lacks the intellectual rigor that most people are accustomed to in their day to day conversations . My guess is she will be very happy to do this , and somewhat expects you to ask .
Assuming the empirical studies with topic X involves the application of various methods associated with X , aspect of citing the number of available examples depends on your motive . If you are illustrating a method , then citing only a few like two or three would be fine . This can be when you wish to show the applicability ( or inapplicability ) of a method Y for the topic X citing only few of the papers that uses Y on X. On the other hand , if you wish to do a detailed study on different methods applied in different ways on topic X , then you would have to cite all the available empirical studies done on X. Note that you would also have to give an account on each of the material you have cited . This would be the obvious case for a proper survey .
Being a mathematician , I must address a logical loophole : I will assume that your field is a STEM field and thus poetry and songs are actually off-topic ( and not just called off-topic ) . How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg ? Four . Calling a tail a leg does n't make it a leg . -- Abraham Lincoln Assuming this : no , I would not submit such creative materials as part of an application to a STEM PhD program . I would n't go so far as to say that submitting such things would be deemed an " affectation " : however , unless you make a clear connection to your chosen field , they are simply not relevant . Including irrelevant things is not a disaster , but it does indicate that you do n't have a clear understanding of what is relevant information in the consideration of your own prospects in that program , which is not great . Most such applications have a personal statement . Mentioning somewhere in the personal statement that you write poetry and songs sounds about right to me : from one human being to another , that is interesting , and personal statements are often not so interesting . But be careful here : a " personal statement " is not a statement about you as a person ! It is really an essay explaining why you would be a strong candidate for the program , so things which are not relevant to that should not be dwelled upon . Many programs do look at the personal statement as a writing sample -- and good writing skills are very relevant in any PhD program , probably more so than any other single quality -- so if you are an unusually good writer the personal statement would be a good opportunity to show your superior skills . However , trying to do that in the genre of either poetry or song would be so risky and open to negative reactions based on personal taste that I would n't recommend it : after all , in most STEM programs you need to be able to write prose , not poetry , and you are not really permitted to burst into song . This is probably a " color between the lines " situation . Added : I spent four ( recent ) years on the committee in charge of graduate admissions in the UGA mathematics department , and I still read some PhD applications every year .
Short answer : yes it is ok to accept the review . Long answer : Yes , it is ( still ) ok to accept the review . If you can only review paper written by authors you have never ever interacted with , at some point in your career , you 'll stop reviewing . Especially if you are working in a small field of research . For me , in your case , it is more than fine to accept the review . The question becomes more tricky if it is from someone you work ( ed ) with ... If you want to try out some really tricky reviewing scenario , try out this test : <URL>
I disagree with Dave . An invited talk is , by definition , a talk that you 've been invited to give . Yes , interviews count . ( More-or-less inviting yourself is not necessarily different than a non-interview invited talk . ) I agree that you should n't reveal which of your invited talks are actually interviews , but that 's only an issue if all your invited talks happen in the last semester before you submit your thesis . ( And maybe you should wait until after interview season is over to add them . The people who are interviewing you are desperately curious about where else you 're interviewing . )
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
Ideally , you 'll discuss the first few letters you write with a mentor , who can offer feedback and keep you from writing an ineffective letter ( getting advice certainly helped me tremendously ) . The same situation can come up again later in your career , for example the first time you write a letter for a liberal arts college if you are used to recommending people for jobs at research universities . If you are n't confident that you can write an effective letter in certain circumstances , then you should seek advice from someone with more experience , even if you are used to writing other sorts of letters . Serving on hiring and admissions committees is extremely valuable , both in figuring out what people reading letters want to know , and in calibrating how strong the competition is and how much enthusiasm one should express in any given case . Trial and error does not seem useful , at least in my experience . There 's just too much randomness in the decision-making progress and too many unknown factors that differ between students . Writing good letters also gets easier with age , as you develop more experience and have a broader basis for comparison . As an incoming faculty member , you have n't seen how careers progress over time , and you 've never had the experience of finding out which of the smart young people you know will live up to or exceed their early promise and which will not . Of course you 'll never be able to predict this with certainty , but over time you 'll start to see patterns , and you 'll be able to make more nuanced and illuminating comparisons in letters .
Being invited to present a paper or give a keynote is an honour . It shows that the community recognizes your work . Of course , it is also a way to further advertise your work , or to reflect on what you have done . Generally , the audience is larger for invited speakers . One accepts the invitation if one has time and prestige of the conference matches one 's reputation . If you have a small reputation , an invited talk at a workshop is an honour . If you are super-famous , you 'll tend to only accept invitations to prestigious events . The cost may depend on how much money the conference has in its budget , which will often depend on the sponsors . Sometimes the conference will waive the registration fee , often they may provide accommodation also , and sometimes they may even cover airfare . Bigger conferences will be able to cover more of the costs . Small workshops may not be able to cover any of the costs .
No , you should n't mention securing letters of recommendation in your personal statement . It sounds a little too mercenary , like you are more interested in bureaucratic outcomes like letters than you are in actually learning . It may hurt the feelings of faculty from your home institution who read it , and it 's not really what the other institution is looking for in a personal statement . On the other hand , you 're right that this experience could really help in securing compelling letters , and I think it 's sensible for you to take this into account in your ( private ) decision making . If you currently attend a strong research university , then getting letters from an even stronger research university probably wo n't help much . However , there are many students at teaching-focused schools that do n't send many students to graduate school in any given field , and very rarely to the top departments . That makes it harder for faculty to write strong letters of recommendation , because the comparison group is not so good : even if somebody writes " this is the best student I 've seen in 20 years " , it 's not clear that this is in itself a strong enough statement . ( It 's still possible to write a compelling letter if the recommender can offer enough concrete , impressive details , but it makes writing the letter harder and requires the recommender to know the applicant really well . ) If a faculty member can easily compare you with lots of students attending a range of good to great graduate schools , that makes it easier for them to write a useful letter . So if you 're studying in a department that rarely or never sends students to the graduate programs you 'd like to attend , then it 's very much worth trying to get a letter from someone who has a broader perspective on the applicant pool . Otherwise it 's not so important . But either way , you should n't mention it in your personal statement .
When did you graduate ? A new law came into effect in 2010 which requires that all new postdoc hires of individuals who held a PhD for more than 2 years at the start of the contract be only given L permits . ( I only found out after I had a similar discussion with human resources a few weeks ago . ) If you have had your degree for less than 2 years , it is possible your university can sort it out for you . If you have had your degree for more than 2 years , there 's pretty much nothing the universities can do ( aside for lobbying for a change of the law ) . In regards to bank services : for a place to put your money , try <URL> for which you can open an account at most post offices . They care a bit less about the issue with the permits . The main problem with having an L instead of a B permit , with regards to banking in general , is that they may be unwilling to give you a credit card or extend you a loan ; you should n't have problem getting a place to put your money .
First off , " fully " is a very relative word , somewhere between expert and novice which makes a specific answer difficult at best . Editors try to identify persons they believe can provide a good constructive review of the manuscript in question . If that is the case , you are viewed as having that expertise . Note that it is not uncommon that an editor appoints experts with different specialities to cover different aspects of a manuscript . It is the responsibility of an editor to select reviewers with care to make sure a manuscript is scrutinized fairly and by peer " experts " . Now this system is not fool-proof and it is therefore the responsibility of a reviewer to decline to review if they think they are not in a position to take on such a review . There are of course many other reasons to decline but that is a different story . So in your case , you need to figure out based on the information you have received , if you have the background to provide input on all or significant parts of the manuscript in the request . When taking on the first reviews in a career , you may ask your advisor or peers about the task but remember , the fact that you have been asked is not necessarily something that is open information ( in for example double-blind reviews where anonymity is requested ) . So , think about how you can contribute . If you do not see that you can provide input , decline . Otherwise , take on the review . Reviewing is an integral part of academia and getting started is necessary at some point . It can also be quite rewarding since you can gain insights ito new science as well as ways to ( or not to ) disseminate science .
Yes , you should update your references at every possible opportunity . Whenever the manuscript is in your hands , if it is possible for you to update the references , you should do so . Paper rejected ? Update the references before resubmission . Paper accepted ? Update the references before sending back the revision . Multiple rounds of reviewing ? Update the references after each round . Submitting a journal version of a conference paper ? Update the references before submission . Reviewing galley proofs ? Okay , then you probably ca n't update the references . Your paper serves as not only a description of your new result but also as a guide to the surrounding literature . Your readers ( including referees and editors ) are best served by the most up-to-date snapshot possible . Of course , if one of the papers you cite has undergone a revision ( for example , and ArXiv preprint has appeared in a journal ) , you must read the new revision yourself to make sure that the cited information is still there , so that you know how to appropriately cite it . I typically tag completely new references ( for example , a relevant ArXiv preprint appears while my paper is under review ) with phrases like " Since this paper was submitted ... " or ( since I 'm in computer science ) " Since the preliminary version of this paper appeared ... "
I favor acting in the following way : If you 've only read one of the versions , cite that one . God knows what 's in the one you have n't read . If you 've read both versions : if they are identical relative to the information you need , publication in a journal or proceedings volume takes precedence over ( re ) publication in a career collection ( e.g. , " Selected works of Jones " ) , which takes precedence over arxiv , which takes precedence over non-arxiv manuscripts . if they are not identical relative to the information you need , cite whichever one contains the best version ( where best probably needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis ) .
Literature on virtual ethnography or netnography is not restricted only to these authors . A cursory Google Scholar <URL> reveals many other authors . Having said this , ~ 50 % of my methodological approach in my work is through grounded theory by using semi-structured interviews . The gold standard for grounded theory is : ... and I would wager that ~ 95 % of papers using grounded theory cite only them in the methods sections of their papers . This does not necessarily make your methods poorer or stronger . You should make sure that you understand the methodological process perfectly and then implement it . Make sure that you do talk about credibility , transferability , dependability and confirmability as well !
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
I will try to respond to the abstract question , with a perspective from Germany ( that may or may not be valid for other European countries ) : Is the master 's in X PhD requirement in Europe satisfied by a master 's in Applied X rather than Pure X ? The general answer to this is yes . As opposed to the subject chosen for the Bachelor and Master degree , which is <URL> , as Bachelor and Master curricula are closely coupled here , a PhD is often completely disconnected from the former studies . Note that the <URL> that <URL> linked to in the original version of <URL> does not require a particular Master 's degree , but a " relevant Master 's degree " . Without any further restrictions , this means that anything closely related to the subject ( and the relationship between Applied X and Pure X might very well be sufficient ) should do . At least , that would be the interpretation in Germany ; it is possible Austrians interpret this differently . However , it is also very well possible that the suitability of the Master 's major is determined based on the research projects at hand . In that case , it depends entirely on the decision of the respective department chair , and it would be worthwhile to contact departments you are interested in . As a concrete example , it is completely normal in Germany to see Masters of Physics , Linguistics , and Maths starting PhDs in Computer Science , not only Masters in Computer Science . EDIT : To clarify the last remark : None of them have to take any extra courses ; rather , they are expected to bring their professional subject-specific knowledge from physics , linguistics , and maths , respectively , into their computer science research ( while " informally " ( i.e. without a class ) catching up with the CS knowledge ) , just like Masters in CS are expected to use their professional CS-specific knowledge in their computer science research , while " informally " acquiring knowledge on ( w.l.o.g. ) physics , linguistics , and maths , as required for their respective research .
end question
start question
Does publishing a paper on arXiv prevent me from submitting it to a non-open access journal ?
You are generally allowed to publish even in a non-open access journal even if a pre-print is on the arXiv . Most journal copyright agreements explicitly allow the authors to post the article online . Here 's an example of a fairly generous one : The ASL hereby grants to the Author the non-exclusive right to reproduce the Article , to create derivative works based upon the Article , and to distribute and display the Article and any such derivative work by any means and in any media , provided the provisions of clause ( 3 ) below are met . The Author may sub-license any publisher or other third party to exercise those rights . and a less generous one which still allows the author to post a copy online : I understand that I retain or am hereby granted ( without the need to obtain further permission ) rights to use certain versions of the Article for certain scholarly purposes , as described and defined below ( " Retained Rights " ) , and that no rights in patents , trademarks or other intellectual property rights are transferred to the journal . The Retained Rights include the right to use the Pre-print or Accepted Authors Manuscript for Personal Use , Internal Institutional Use and for Scholarly Posting ; and the Published Journal Article for Personal Use and Internal Institutional Use . I 've seen examples where the journal actually did some genuine copyediting beyond what the referee did where the author was n't allowed to post the version that benefited from the copyediting , but could still post the earlier version . So , for most journals , the answer is that you 're allowed to post the article online because it 's specifically allowed by the document they ask you to sign . But it is possible that posting on the arxiv will rule out particular journals that have more restrictive policies .
I agree with the other answers , but they are anecdotal , and you asked for some " definitive " answers to help you convince your colleagues and advisor . Here 's what I found : IEEE None of the IEEE journals has a required charge for non-open access publications . The <URL> says : For a detailed listing of paper charges by publication , download the List of Voluntary and Overlength Paper Charges ( PDF , 287 KB ) . <URL> is the current version of that list . You will note that some journals have voluntary " sustaining " charges for " normal-length " manuscripts . In fact , <URL> specifically states that those charges are not obligatory : IEEE Policy 6.9 permits some types of periodicals to levy page charges . If your publication is one of these , it is your company or institution , not you , which is being asked for support . Payment is not obligatory nor is it a prerequisite for publication . In the statement above " page charges " refers only to charges for not-open , not-overlength , not-color-print articles . Many IEEE publications do have <URL> , which are mandatory - if your paper exceeds the " normal " length then you must either reduce the length of your paper or pay the overlength charges . The length of a " normal " paper depends on the journal and publication type ( normal-length " letters " may be as short as 1 or 2 pages , for example . ) Some also have charges for color figures appearing in print , although there is no charge for online-only color . More definitive info is available for each journal in the IEEE Xplore site , at the " About Journal " page , section " Author Resources " , link " Additional Information " , which opens a PDF with detailed " Information for Authors " ( see <URL> ) . ( The document also does not include the recently added IEEE open access options , which do have required charges , which are listed <URL> . ) Springer The <URL> asks HOW MUCH DOES IT COST TO PUBLISH IN A SPRINGER JOURNAL ? The answer there is : For the majority of Springer journals , publishing an article is free of charge . If a journal requires page charges , you will find them on the journal 's springer.com homepage or in its Instructions for Authors . Charges might apply e.g. for color figures or over-length articles . The information on these extra costs will also be available from the journal 's homepage or its Instructions for Authors . Charges for open access articles : If you choose to publish an open access article ( " Springer Open Choice " article or in a " SpringerOpen " journal ) , there will be an Article Processing Charge ( APC ) to be paid by the author . As a consequence , the article can be freely read , downloaded or distributed from SpringerOpen.com and SpringerLink.com by any internet user . Furthermore , even for open-access journals , <URL> : SpringerOpen journals routinely waive charges for authors from low-income countries ; and individual waiver requests are considered on the grounds of hardship on a case-by-case basis . Another Springer FAQ titled <URL> claims : Page charges do not exist . which I think is as close to " definitive " as you can get . Elsevier Some Elsevier journals do have author charges , and by searching the Elsevier site I did find a ( very ) few non-open journals with required page charges . I did not find any in CS with author charges , though . The official <URL> I found is : I am submitting my paper to one of your journals . How do I find out if there are page charges associated with this journal ? Page charges are journal specific . Many journals do not have page charges for submitted papers . To determine whether the journal to which you are submitting has page charges , you will need to find the homepage for the journal and check it 's specific submission instructions . So if you 're looking for a definitive " No page charges , " Elsevier is not the answer . In practice , however , there are literally only a handful of non-open Elsevier journals that charge author fees .
<URL> sets out principles that define meaning of " open " with respect to knowledge and in relation to data and content . This is based on three fundamental rights : free to use , free to re-use , free to re-distribute for all . In other words : Open data and content can be freely used , modified , and shared by anyone for any purpose . which is synonymous with " free " or " libre " as in the <URL> . There are a <URL> for the most diverse data types ( images , text , audio , video , data , databases , source code , etc. ) that guarantee this openness by this definition . The meaning of " open " in the terms " open data " and " open content " ensures quality and encourages compatibility between different pools of open material . This can be summed up as : Open means anyone can freely access , use , modify , and share for any purpose ( subject , at most , to requirements that preserve provenance and openness ) . with respect to knowledge : Knowledge is open if anyone is free to access , use , modify , and share it -- subject , at most , to measures that preserve provenance and openness . For precise the meaning of " open " , check <URL> page ( or <URL> ) . Source : <URL>
This is an interesting question -- and yet when you think about it , it 's horrifying that we 'd have to consider even for an instant the propriety and legality of keeping our own annotated research materials . But , to provide a proper answer : In principle , this may depend on the terms of the license under which you downloaded these papers . In practice , you are very likely to be in the right , both legally and morally . In general , I believe that the licenses allow you to reproduce ( i.e. , print or save ) the document for research purposes -- without specifying a time limit or maximum duration of their subsequent use . See e.g. <URL> . If you are asking about the ethical/moral propriety of what you are doing , you are clearly in the right to retain your collection of papers and notes on those papers . In fact , you may even have an ethical obligation to retain those materials if the notes therein are necessary to reproduce any of your present work . As an analogy , think about what I did many years ago when moving from one university to another . I had an extensive paper collection of reprints , many photocopied from my institution 's library and many extensively annotated . I boxed all of these up and brought them with me . No one in their right mind -- nor even most copyright lawyers , I 'd imagine -- would have had me go through those files and discard the articles not in volumes held by my new institution . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice . It does seem to be good common sense , though , and sometimes that can be worth at least as much as anything a lawyer would tell you .
The publisher allows uploading preprint versions ( including revisions after reviewer comments ) If you 're allowed to do it , you are allowed to do it . To be 100 % sure , check the text of the copyright transfer agreement , where these policies are spelt out . Or , if you do n't like reading legal text so much , it is summarized for many publishers in a nice color code at <URL> .
As Dan <URL> , you have both an ethical , academic obligation to cite your source , and a legal duty to comply with whatever licence the image was made available under . However , in general , the possibilities of that licence are somewhat broader than the CC-BY licence explained in Dan 's answer . In general , a paper found on the arXiv can be licensed in five different ways , which are explained in the <URL> page . Authors can do the following : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . In addition to this is the question of whether the authors have retained copyright for the material after the arXiv posting . If the paper has since been published , chances are that they have ceded copyright to the publisher and you will need to go through the proper channels to get it . Since the question is specifically about the preprint , I will assume that the copyright of the material remains with the author . ( Nevertheless , you still need to check that this is the case . ) The easiest case is if the arXiv posting has been put in the public domain ( CC0 licence ) , in which case you do not need to acknowledge any copyright , much as if you were reproducing , say , a passage of Alice in Wonderland . ( You still need to attribute it , though , the same as if you were reproducing Alice in Wonderland . ) If the paper has been shared via any of the Creative Commons licences , then you can simply reproduce it , with the proper attribution and a link to the relevant licence . If the licence is CC BY-SA or CC BY-NC-SA , then you also need to make sure that you abide by the terms of the licence : that you 're publishing under a <URL> , in both cases , and that your use is non-commercial in the latter . The most common case , however , in many fields , is the first one : the authors granted arXiv.org ( not you ) a license to distribute the article , and that 's that . This means that , barring any fair-use arguments you wish to make , you do not have permission to redistribute the work either in part or in its entirety . In this case , what you need to do is contact the authors and ask for permission to republish the image . In your specific case , however , your group is itself the owner of the copyright , and you do not need to do anything . It is not even a question of you having the freedom of choosing how the initial work is licensed : you 're simply publishing the same material in different venues , which is perfectly fine . Of course , if you want to go further and license that material under a CC licence , then all the better ! ( Just be aware , of course , that doing so could impair your ability to publish it in some venues down the line . )
Determining whether a study is accurate , reliable , unbiased , etc. can actually be quite difficult , particularly for tricky and difficult to measure phenomena . This is what scientists argue about amongst themselves , and the consensus that emerges is best interpreted as the current best understanding of a subject . Peer-reviewed publications are a good starting point , because the peer-review process strives to ensure that they are in fact accurate , reliable , unbiased , etc. . The publications are written and reviewed by humans , however , who are not very good at those things , and as such some bad articles get published and some good ones do n't . Likewise , there are many different levels of quality in peer-reviewed journals . Still , for all its flaws , peer review is a lot better than not-peer-reviewed at filtering out things are are inaccurate , unreliable , badly biased , etc , and thus " peer-reviewed publication " is typically a good heuristic for " probably worth considering as a reasonable source of information . " That is not , however , the end of the story on whether an article is a good source of information . A good next step is to see what other scientists say who reference the article in their own publications . One article does not an established fact make ; many in agreement do .
First , I think you are worrying too much . Second , I think it is bad form on the part of the authors . If the material on the website is critical for the paper , it needs to be provided in an archival form that the journal can keep track of . I would evaluate it based on what you have been given .
Independently of whether you need an affiliation , this sounds like a well-known representation of trig formulas ( Euler 's formula ) . There is quite some theory involved with this , including and up to Galois theory . You should check with someone knowledgeable whether you indeed discovered anything new . It 's fun to discover new stuff , and it 's a cool feeling to recover things that very smart people came up with , but , once you are there , you have to give it the reality check , which is the ultimate hallmark of the scientist . Perhaps some friendly mathematician from the local college is happy to spare half an hour with a talented high schooler to give you at least an idea how novel the idea is or what else to try from this point on ?
There are basically no restriction on who can write a paper , so , clearly you can . If you have no affiliation , it might be hard to go publish a " free " paper ( e.g. , a technical report or a pre-print on arxiv ) , but you can always consider submitting your idea to a workshop/conference . However , you might have to pay the conferences/travel fees ( although some conferences might help you , if you ca n't afford it ) . You can also submit your idea to a journal , as many do n't charge anything to publish . You can of course also just write a PDF and put it on your website , or even do a long blog post . There is one thing you might need to be careful of , since you might not be used to write academic paper : a good paper is not just a good idea , this idea needs to be validated . In other words , you ca n't just write : " here is a cool idea I had " , you also need to describe how it differs from existing approaches ( perhaps your idea has been already published ) , and you need to describe why it 's a good idea . There are many approaches to do so , for instance by presenting your idea in a formal setting and prove that you can mitigate DDoS attacks ( probably under some assumptions ) . You can also run some experiments , and show that your approach mitigated x % more attacks than some known approaches . If you 're interested in eventually pursuing a career in academia , showing that you can explain and validate your work might be as important as having a good idea ( because not only you have a good idea , but you can convince others that it 's a good one ! ) . Note that another approach in your situation could be to implement your idea as an open-source software , and if it 's adopted by the community , then it 's another form of validation .
What 's the recommended course of action in this situation ? Should I notify the editor of this additional discovery , so that the authors can directly take care of it in their ( presumably ongoing ) revision , Yes , I think so . This seems to be in the best interest of all involved : you , the authors and the journal . It may be tempting to feel " embarrassed " about this or feel loathe to hold up the stately train of the editorial process , but you should resist these temptations : part of being a professional academic is being completely willing to change and adjust to new information and/or new insight you 've acquired . or is it better to just wait for a request to review the revised version ? No , I do n't think so . Put yourself in the authors ' shoes : would n't you like to have this information as soon as possible ? Revising a paper without knowing about a serious -- potentially fatal -- error sounds like it could be a waste of their valuable time . Moreover , the longer they think that the paper will be accepted with revisions , the more disappointed they will be when they learn about the true situation . I would write up carefully your description of the error as though it were part of the original referee report . In effect this does become a new referee report , but you do n't necessarily need to edit this into the old referee report : having already submitted that , the matter of it is to convey the new information . Of course , the final decision about in what manner to inform the authors lies with the editor .
I tend to think that in most cases , the specialized/broad dichotomy is not very relevant . The most important point is to send it to an interested editor ; if the most relevant editor for a paper happens to be at a general journal , you will often be better of sending your paper there . I would consider two exceptions to this principle . First , top specialized journals are usually less reputed than top generalist journals , so if you get a truly impressive result , you may want to get the best of it by sending it to a top generalized journal . Second , some generalist journals will turn back papers that seems much more specialized than the average math paper ( e.g. when the basic objects you study are unheard of by most mathematicians ) .
I 'd recommend waiting a week or two to see whether you get a response to your withdrawal . At this stage it ca n't be urgent to resubmit immediately , and having their reply would guarantee that they are aware that you have withdrawn the paper . ( By contrast , I do n't think an e-mail read receipt means much . For all you know , an administrative assistant opened the e-mail and then mistakenly deleted it without realizing what it said . ) I would n't go so far as to say you are required to wait for a response , but better safe than sorry . I think you 've got a much bigger issue to worry about , though , and that 's why you withdrew the paper after acceptance . At least in mathematics , withdrawing an accepted paper is extremely unusual . To a first approximation , it typically means there 's something seriously wrong with either the paper or the journal . You can certainly do it , but given the effort that has gone into handling and refereeing the paper , you will cause offense if you do n't have a very good reason . If you inadvertently submitted the paper to a junk or predatory journal , then you do n't need to worry about causing offense . ( Offending the editors of predatory journals is not a bad thing . ) In that case , withdrawing the paper is certainly the right decision . If you dreadfully screwed up in your choice of journal , for example by submitting a brilliant breakthrough to a respectable but not impressive journal without realizing how good the paper was , then you should apologize profusely for wasting everyone 's time . Hopefully they 'll understand that it was a genuine mistake on your part , and they 'll sympathize with the awkward position you are in and give their blessing to resubmitting elsewhere . If the paper is seriously flawed , then that 's a respectable reason to withdraw it . You might look bad for having submitted it , but then again , the referee did n't find the mistake either . But this is n't a compelling reason to submit elsewhere soon : if you do n't check whether the original journal is willing to publish the revised paper , then it looks like the changes were just an excuse to withdraw the paper . Under normal circumstances , it will cause offense if people think you are withdrawing an accepted paper just to try your luck at a more prestigious journal . In particular , this is a dangerous impression to leave if you ever hope to submit to this journal again . As an editor , I would certainly not be happy to see a new submission from an author who had previously withdrawn an accepted paper without a compelling excuse . All this gives you another reason to move slowly and wait for a reply . If you have a good reason for withdrawal , then it 's worth making sure you have communicated it clearly . In any case , you are doing something rather unusual and serious , and it 's best not to give the impression you are treating it lightly or casually .
I get the same emails as well . Things to consider when looking at a brand new journal : As Anonymous , Charles and JeffE commented , make sure it is not a scam and that the editorial board are well respected ( well-published ) academics in your field . Make absolutely certain that the journal caters to your exact research field - try and find , or ask , what their focus is . Find out about costs if any . If the journal is legitimate and relevant , then consider publishing a smaller paper first , publish your main papers in well established highly ranked and highly distributed journals ( especially if you are starting out in academia ) .
Whether your institution plans to put it online is a question you have to ask them . Whether they are allowed to put it online depends on the policies of the journal where it was published . You will need to read the copyright transfer agreement that you accepted when the paper was published .
Cite the journal name that was used at the time of publication . For example , the British Medical Journal officially changed title to BMJ in 1988 . Cite articles from 1987 and earlier as Br Med J , not BMJ . ( Source : <URL> . )
This exact question has been asked at Webapps Stack Exchange : <URL> Quoting from the ( unaccepted ) answer there : Unfortunately there is n't an option to restrict results like that in Google Scholar ( I appreciate the idea , running into paywalls is very frustrating ) . I guess the argument could be made that you are limiting the articles/knowledge you could be exposed to be only looking at the free things . That and Google 's recognition of what is accessible is n't 100 % . See <URL> for more information .
There 's a few separate things to consider here . I 'll try to cover each succinctly . Your advisor probably ( hopefully ? ) knows the field well . They should have a good idea of what would and would n't be accepted . I 'm sure they will have been in a similar situation in the past , and have experience of it . Therefore their view on the matter is perhaps important from the angle of experience and subject knowledge . It may be that your advisor simply does n't feel comfortable publishing the work as it stands . As a professor , there is a lot of pressure to publish high quality works . As academia is highly competitive ( at least in some disciplines ) , perhaps your advisor is worried about publishing ongoing work at an early stage for fear of giving a competitor an advantage ? This is n't a negative remark as to them , rather them looking out for both your interests ( as you would n't want someone to snatch this away from under you ) . Having a discussion about the situation ( as I believe you began ) is important in these situations . Perhaps this is discipline specific , but you could maybe approach the subject by suggesting a recent results track ( or ongoing work ) in a conference ? Often these are good places to sound out ideas and seek feedback or potential input or collaboration . You would definitely want the active support of your advisor for this though , since they would likely be the one paying the conference fee and travel expenses . It may be that your advisor simply does n't feel the work/results so far are good enough , or that the experimental procedure ( if applicable ) was suitable , given the early stages of the work . I know of situations in the past where ( for right or wrong , that 's a whole separate debate ) , advisors have told students to remove their name from a submission if they were going to insist in submitting it . While that 's hopefully not the case here , it often is an indication of the advisor 's feelings on the matter , in them saying they do n't wish to be associated with the work . I would suggest you perhaps approach the subject with your advisor along the lines of point 2 - perhaps suggest a recent results or ongoing result track at a smaller conference ? You would hopefully then be able to discuss the advantages or disadvantages of submitting for publication . I ca n't comment on the offer to do the writing yourself , as that was how I worked anyway , but I 'm well aware this is probably disciple specific . At the end of the day , your advisor will probably make a recommendation as to how to proceed . Remember they likely have a fairly good idea what will and wo n't be accepted for a conference or journal , and perhaps simply want to save you the time in preparing a manuscript for what they feel is inevitable rejection . So talk to your advisor , and perhaps propose a destination with a suitable recent results or ongoing work track ?
The answer depends very much on the journal . Some expect UK spellings ; others will permit either American or British spellings . You should check with the journal in question . Of course , the other option that you have is the following . Since you know what the major differences between the two sets of spellings are , and you have a sense of which one 's wo n't be caught by your spell checker , you could always do a final search-and-replace after you 've completed work on the paper to make sure you 've switched everything over . ( Or at least , everything you know should be switched over . ) That should satisfy most journals , and as shan23 said , I do n't think a journal will reject your paper for writing " meters " instead of " metres " ; the most you 'll get is a referee report telling you to switch spellings .
Certainly this is appropriate , especially if you indicate who you are and why you are interested . Researchers are interested in spreading their results far and wide to get citations . The worst that can happen is that the research is not yet quite publication-ready , and the author prefers not to share it yet , to avoid academic claim-jumping . If so , you may get exactly this explanation , or no answer at all . The best , conversely , would be that this could actually lead to a fruitful discussion and/or even collaboration .
end question
start question
Does being an older PhD applicant for U.S. universities mean there is less chance to be accepted with funding ?
In my experience as a grad program director , there is zero truth to this rumor . Funding decisions have nothing to do with the applicant 's age . Nor is having worked outside of academia for years a disadvantage -- we often look very favorably at students who bring with them substantial life experience beyond a college education .
How many graduate students a professor helps through the program can have a number of impacts on tenure - including some I 'll likely miss . Off the top of my head : As a former student , I have been asked to write a letter on behalf of a mentor of mine . The more students one helps launch off into bright , shiny , productive careers , the more of these letters should be positive and strong . PhD students are heavily correlated with research productivity . One person can only be so productive - having a thriving lab with graduate students passing through it can help boost publications , productivity , etc. all of which may very well help one 's tenure portfolio . To address " like Sean Carroll , say that research is far more important than teaching " - your actual , direct supervised graduate students really do n't fall under " teaching " in many cases , and are much closer to either the research or service end of things . Keep in mind that , with the tenure clock of many universities , a junior professor may very reasonably not have graduated any students from their lab by the time they come up for tenure . But being a good mentor and building a pool of capable graduate students can help one 's tenure application in a number of ways even if the committee does n't look at it as a solitary number .
At my large R1 state university in the U.S. , it might be impossible to get tenure without having an active grant at the time , even with an otherwise excellent record , since mathematics faculty disinterested ( or hostile to whatever the specialty or person in question might be ) would use this as grounds for doubting the quality . After all , supposedly , all the best people are funded . Supposedly , endorsement by the NSF ( or NSA ) is an external , objective test of quality . This is certainly a convenient assumption for arguments in certain directions . EDIT : and since a strong super-majority is needed for a " positive " tenure vote , even irrational ranting can sway otherwise uninformed or disinterested people to scuttle the vote . Issues of external funding are apparently even more identified with research activity by engineers ( and experimental scientists ) , who often dominate the college-wide tenure ( and promotion ) committees . That is , it is sometimes apparently unimaginable that a person would be doing research without a grant . Further , at my university , in other hard-science departments , often large grants are allowed to " buy out " faculty from any teaching at all . This is rare in my math department . EDIT : thus , in the minds of some engineers , " teaching " is stigmatized , since in their own depts it 's only the disenfranchised who have to do any of it . And then there 're the wildly different paper-count standards for experimental science/engineering versus mathematics . The literal " funding of research " usually is less critical , apart from the expense of travelling to conferences , and extra summer salary .
Depending on the program I would keep it between 1.5 to 2 pages . I framed mine to answer the following questions : Why am I applying to this school . What are my research interests . Previous academic accomplishments . Previous professional accomplishments . Personal story of triumph ( optional , I talk about having to drop out of high school to support my family ) What is your goal after graduation . Addition : I would also target schools that are pumping out the research that matches with your interests ... this will help when you are stating why you are applying like : A major factor in helping me choose Awesome University was Professor Awesome 's research on being awesome . I feel that this aligns well with my research interests , and would make for a great fit between me and the department . Also , if you talk about any abstract ideas be sure to elaborate on them to give a level of specificity . They want to see you be able to translate abstract ideas into specific thoughts .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
Yes , <URL> is the place for you . But you can of course also publish in regular journals without being affiliated with a university . Science does not require a formal affiliation , just good ideas and data . If you have the latter , you can publish as a private citizen , an employee of a company , an employee of a government , or with any other background .
I suppose some senior people may publish exclusively on arXiv but they are a minority and I ca n't think of any examples right now . Publishing in mathematics takes a long time . Journal backlogs of multiple years are common enough that if you wait for your paper to appear in print it is already old . This is less of a problem in the other subjects that arXiv covers but still ... So what does publishing on arXiv get the author ? Primarily it gives the paper a time stamp and makes it publicly available . Putting up a paper is fast , it only takes a few minutes and it gives a reference number so that you can cite it in a talk or in a paper . Normally you would have to wait until you get page numbers from a journal . And if you are giving a talk on your paper when you have just finished the work that might still be years in the future . One interesting feature of publishing on arXiv is that you can write small notes and put those up . You can write the " user 's guide " version of a paper . You can post a supplement to a paper that would n't be publishable on its own . Ultimately what it all boils down to is that people post documents to arXiv that they want other people to see and hopefully read . As for prestige , no . There really is n't any as far as I know .
Since we 're talking about the humanities , let me answer with a Simpsons quote : Ned Flanders : I do n't understand . Is God punishing me ? Reverend Lovejoy : Short answer , " yes " with an " if " ; long answer , " no , " with a " but " I believe that academic CVs should be tailored to the requirements of the situation . If you 're applying for a faculty position in the Department of Film and Media Studies , a Kickstarter campaign in which you raised money for an independent movie is appropriate . Otherwise , adding this information is about as useful as saying that you like pina coladas and getting caught in the rain . PS . If you were <URL> , I 'd hire you right away if I was head of Social Psychology or Cultural Studies . PPS . Thank god , I 'm not head of an academic department .
The funding depends on your nationality/residence by a lot , as well as the field , the university , and the supervisor . UK or EEA residents can get funding from national research councils ( such as ESPRC , STFC and many more ) which give them ( usually ) the cost of tuition plus a small living stipend ( when I was applying the living wage was about # 13,000 ) . Non UK/EEA people generally have to self-fund outside of a few special circumstances ( competitive international scholarships such as Rhodes , university bursaries for internationals ) . This is very very rare . However , it 's not terribly uncommon to see students from an above-average financial situation self-funding , but then they need to pay not only their living costs , but also the cost of tuition ( at my old university it was about # 20k per year for international students ) . I wrote an extensive response on all of these issues <URL> and <URL> and <URL> . The other answers from other users on those posts are also excellent . So what happens is that you apply , and then you will be ( hopefully ) asked for an interview . If you are able to compete for the ' normal ' funding pot , you will be interviewed much the same way as everyone else . First a shortlist , then the interviews , and maybe follow-up interviews will be used to select the best candidates from the pool of applicants . If you 're non-UK/EEA , you may or may not interview with everyone else ; it 's up to the university . If they do n't have the money to fund you , many departments will make you an offer anyway ( especially for foreign students ) which you will usually have several months to accept or decline . The research councils will grant the department a certain number of PhD studentship bursaries , and they will distribute them . From what I 've seen , you do n't have to do much self-application for scholarships unless you 're foreign . Though you will always be told where the money is coming from , and there may be some requirements ( a yearly seminar , for example ) to get the money . If you are given a stipend , it is tax-free , unlike in many other countries . Your funding is all-inclusive , not split up into RA or TA like in the US . You can normally make extra money marking coursework or demonstrating in labs , although the ' estimated number of hours ' taken by these activities does n't always match up with the actual number of hours you spend on them !
A post-doctoral position is not usually part of a " program . " It is not like graduate school , leading some kind of higher certification . It is a job , doing research in a specific area . Hiring is done individually by the senior researcher overseeing a position , and what they may be looking for is highly variable . Some people may hire based primarily on people 's publication output as graduate students ; however , in most cases I am familiar with , hiring is done based on a holistic view of the candidate . For example , when I applied for a post-doc in theoretical particle physics , I had only one publication out ( and another one submitted ) , based on my graduate work . However , I came from a top graduate program , and I had a very strong letter from my advisor . I had to apply for a lot of jobs , but the one I eventually got was with somebody who had research interests very close to my advisor 's . ( The two had collaborated once , briefly , some years in the past . ) I had a very broad background ( having taken a lot more classes than most graduate students at my institution ) , and based on this and my advisors strong recommendation , I got a job . One of my professors in graduate school had told me explicitly that it was much more important to learn a lot in graduate school than to publish a lot of papers . You are not going to get the opportunity again to broaden your base of knowledge in the same way , and how many papers you publish is probably less important than learning and networking and making a good impression on senior people . Once you have a post-doc , that is the time to really crank up your research output ( to four or five papers a year in theoretical physics or applied mathematics , if you want to get a good faculty job ) .
Nomen nominandum , " a name to be named " - if you do n't know the person 's name yet , this indicates that you will supply the name later . Which sounds a bit more reassuring than a simple nomen nescio , " I do n't know the name " .
Sure : The DFG in Germany awards grants for projects to organize digital libraries . The ministry of education and research in Germany funds large projects on higher education ( one of them is the Qualittspakt Lehre - you hire people ( often at the PhD or postdoc level ) to organize or develop new courses , course concepts or course material ) . There are grants for projects on history of science . Universities offer reduction of teaching load or sabbaticals for writing books ( which is really some kind of a grant , you get paid with time not money ) . In books you often see acknowledgements for some funding . Granted , in many of these grants the money or time does not go to PhD students or postdocs but at least the first three things fit the bill . Note however , that as soon there is no research involved , you can not get a research degree for this work . So these kind of positions are not attractive to some students .
An unstructured problem is one that does not have a direct solution already established : that is , it 's not immediately obvious how one gets from the problem statement to a working solution , or even if there is a solution . This is the standard for most doctoral-level research problems in STEM fields : if the problem is so well-defined that the strategy for solving it is immediately obvious , it is likely unsuitable for doctoral work , and a new ( usually more challenging ) problem should be selected .
The policies vary entirely from journal to journal about what is considered acceptable . APS journals , for instance , will accept both MS Word-based documents as well as documents formatted with RevTeX , their modified template system . ACS journals and a number of other publishers also offer their own LaTeX - and Word-specific templates for authors to use . Whether the use of the template is required or merely recommended is also a function of the journal . So , as a general rule , you should always check the homepage of a journal before you start preparing an article for submission to that journal . To some extent , I prefer working with LaTeX in preparing manuscripts , for the simple reason that their plain-text document format makes it a lot less painful to switch back and forth between different templates , compared to a word-processing format like Word or LibreOffice or Pages .
In my entire scientific career , I have seen religious belief come up precisely once : an ( apparently Christian ) author closed a paper with " AMDG , " which apparently stands for <URL> . Of the set of three peer reviewers , one ignored it , one was confused by it , and one asked for it to be deleted as irrelevant to the substance of the paper . The authors removed the acronym as part of their revision ( amongst other changes ) and the paper was published . The other place that I know that religion comes into play in scientific publication ( though I have not personally encountered it ) , is when a person attempts to use statements from their religion as evidence for a position . This never goes well : in a scientific context , claiming " the Bible says ... " or " the Koran says ... " is equivalent to saying " The Lord of the Rings says ... " or " Fifty Shades of Grey says ... " Such a document is a secondary source at best , and one that has no particular reason to be regarded as a reliable source of evidence , despite the magnitude of cultural belief . Such books can , of course , be cited and analyzed just as any other literary/historical work , but that is different than using them as evidence for a scientific position . So , in short : if you do n't make your religion an issue in your manuscript , it should never come up as an issue in the normal scientific publication process . This does n't mean you might not encounter horrible and inappropriate behavior ( scientists are just as capable of being terrible people as anybody else ) but it is definitely outside the norm of the peer review and publication process .
Having only a MSc ( and not doing a PhD ) it might be hard to get an official research funding ( although , there are many different programs and maybe there is one for someone with your status ; especially if in some way you are still affiliated with an university of institute ) . Sadly , ( as Paul Hiemstra pointed out ) there no such thing as a scientific freelancer . Science market is very far from an unregulated , free market ( and the supply is higher than demands , so it is not a place for freelancer jobs ) . However , there are two options which may make sense to you : doing a part-time PhD , or some PhD where you are not expected to be at the univ. all the time ; effectively , it may work for you ( though , then it will need to be rather at a low-rank univ. ; most likely the most important thing is to find a univ. with no to low teaching load + an advisor who does not care ( sic ! ) or one who understands your situation and is willing to participate in such relationship ) , considering crowdfunding - i.e. describing you project on a website and gathering from all interested people ( like on <URL> ) ; here is <URL> ( then it is not from government ) .
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
Some journals restrict by word count , others by page count , yet others by odd hybrids such as counting each figure as a certain numbers of words . In the case of the journal you mention , it sounds like it is , in fact , page count , with a limit of 30 . Usually , if there is a page-count restriction , the journal also prescribes submission format more precisely , so you may want to look into that as well ...
In my organization , we address this challenge with two rounds of internal review before a proposal is submitted : Pink Team : reviews the ideas and storyline of the proposal , typically as a fleshed-out outline but before significant effort has been invested in writing . This is intended to identify major gaps and allow course corrections to be made before major effort is invested in writing . Red Team : reviews a near-final draft document , reading in detail and checking for compliance with proposal requirements . We 'll typically use 2-4 people for these teams , of which one should have expertise in the material and one should not be an expert , in order to provide an outside perspective . Often we 'll use the same people for both teams . Doing this makes proposals much stronger , but generally requires that you start them earlier , in order to be able to have time to really incorporate feedback .
Tough to predict how it will be handled with certainty . You could list the scholarship but then say in your SoP something along these lines : " I 've earned in fact ( a prestigious ? ) scholarship from my home government which would allow me to ... however it comes with a requirement that ... which frankly I 'd prefer not to commit to . Thus I would much rather be admitted with financial support from the university , in which case I would turn down the government scholarship . " For highly ranked research universities , I 'd say it is not common for Ph.D. students to be self-funded . That said , if they can grab a strong student who is self-funded , what 's not to like ? :)
end question
start question
How to efficiently plan holidays in academia ?
I tend to combine my holidays with academic travel . In part , because it reduces the cost of going to conferences : I do n't have to fly half way across the country just for two days . In part , it also reduces the monetary cost of holiday travel . For example , adding 2 days for sightseeing/relaxing after a conference does n't impact flight reimbursement . You pay for the hotel/airbnb , but that 's it . That is especially appealing if you are going to a conference in Europe [ US ] and you 're based in the US [ Europe ] , such that the flight is a substantial part of the cost . I 've also gotten flights to other cities reimbursed . As long as the flight X - > Y - > Z is not more expensive than X - > Y - > X , neither my university nor others that have paid for my travel have had any objections . It almost always costs them less ( and never more ) , so it 's a win-win situation . In that case , I still end up paying Z - > X , but that 's half the fare I 'd otherwise pay . If the flight to Z costs more than to X , I let them know and claim less than the actual cost for reimbursement . Another advantage of this is that it spreads out vacation days throughout the year . I never feel guilty taking off a day here and there and I 'm substantially more productive afterward . Doing nothing for two weeks does n't particularly appeal to me and would likely just stress me out once I got back .
I would say that this is one time when taking a year off is not recommended . You are at your peak right now in a number of ways : You have very recent publications and just received your degree . Both have a discernible half-life when it comes to being hired in academia ( particularly for the first time ) . You know the most people in your field , including your advisor and other professors who can write you up-to-date recommendation letters . You have the most current knowledge of your field , and although it sounds like you 're going to continue to publish , you wo n't be as able to actively learn ( then again , I know from your previous posts that you were full-time employed during your PhD , so that may not be an issue ) . I 'm assuming that the timing is different in Australia , but in the U.S. there are generally key times of the year that academic hiring happens -- you put together applications in Nov-Jan and hope to land interviews and talks in the Feb-April time frame . If there is a similar time-frame in Australia , I would make sure you have the time available to put together applications and go on interviews , whether it is this year or after another year . I assume you 'll still be allowed to publish under your previous school 's affiliation post-PhD defense , but if that is n't the case , I would urge you to figure out a way to work that out . Finally ( and I 'm not really in a position to comment directly on this ) is the question about how your job applications will be received with a year gap from academia . My feeling is that an extra paper will help you but that the time away wo n't help you ( even though it is n't technically away it will be noticeable that you got your PhD a year prior ) , and it may be a wash . You 'll have to consider this when you write your cover letters and research statement . I would think about how ( if at all ) you justify the extra year of high school teaching post-PhD in a cover letter . You 've already got plenty of teaching experience under your belt to prove your teaching credentials , so an extra year in the classroom wo n't be beneficial from that standpoint .
Is this evaluation fair for small teams ( 2 or 3 people ) ? With peer-evaluation schemes like this , the fewer students there are in the group , the more vulnerable students are to gamesmanship and unfairly false ratings . Even if they 're not actually unfair to each other , their feelings of vulnerability to one another 's unfairness is deadly for your student ratings . They will blame you for putting them in this vulnerable position . Plus , if there is n't exactly the same number of students in each group , it 's difficult for students to feel that the scoring is fair . More broadly , I have found that students hate " allocate points " schemes . Perhaps it seems like I 'm too pandering to students with regard to their student ratings , but I believe there are good reasons to take a hit on ratings ( e.g. , a rigorous course ) and unwise reasons to take a hit on ratings ( e.g. , using a peer evaluation technique that they think is unfair ) . My approach to this problem has been to ... ( 1 ) promise that peer ratings will stay completely anonymous -- which can even be accomplished in two-person teams by combining the peer rating with another scored element ( e.g. , class participation ) when reporting their scores . ( 2 ) gather peer ratings as responses to some 1-10 rating questions ( e.g. , " Attended all group meetings , 1 = Disagree Completely , 10 = Agree Completely " ) rather than an allocate points scheme , and ( 3 ) delay the grief of doing peer evaluations until the end of the semester . I realize that what I do does n't fit with your current plan , but maybe it 's something to think about .
In modern dynamic society it is next to impossible to predict what happens with education systems , universities , and job market in 20 years time . Also , the success in finding an academic job depends highly on the skill of a candidate , and we do not know what your skills are now , and will be after 20 years . It is unlikely that you find the precise answer to your question here . However , it is very likely that a proper education , and a " badge " which confirms it , will be still of some value . Therefore , quitting the high school may really be not the wisest choice . Of course , there are stories of prominent success of people without any degree , and it is tempting to revolt the system and prove yourself a hero . Just bear in mind that a great amount of people without any degree achieve nothing and remain unknown to most . A real genius may ( and hopefully will ) rise no matter what , but in the long run and on average people with the structured education and degrees are more successful in getting themselves high-skilled jobs .
It gives me serious doubts about going into academia . Let me try to put your mind at ease about this by first of all answering a slightly different question from the one you asked : it is very , very , very normal for academics to have families , and to spend a very good amount of time with their families over the holidays and at many other times . Put differently : there are some valid reasons why a person may not want to go into academia , but this is n't one of them . Now , getting back to your actual question : is it normal for people in academia to work too hard , at the expense of time with their families ? Well , it is indeed somewhat common , at least in the U.S. . But this is by no means unique to academia ; it is also common in the U.S. for people in many other industries and occupations to work too hard . The fact remains that there are many many people , both in academia and outside it , who manage to lead a very successful and productive professional life while maintaining a healthy balance between their personal and professional lives . Your sister 's situation sounds rather extreme and unhealthy to me . Deadlines are a common ( though not universal ) feature of academic life , but usually one knows a long time in advance that a deadline is approaching , and for most people it is not too difficult to plan ahead and finish a project sufficiently in advance of a deadline to make allowance for things like holidays , family reunions , or any other commitments or plans . If your sister is n't doing this , I can think of several possible explanations : Your sister is a young researcher who still has n't polished her skills of managing a complex schedule . She will improve with time . Your sister is the kind of person who is most productive under the pressure of a deadline . She may also improve with time as she finds that such things interfere with her personal life , or she may remain like this indefinitely . Your sister has poor relations with you and/or other members of your family , and simply prefers to do work ( or to pretend to do work ) during family gatherings . While some of these possibilities are indeed troubling , and you have my sympathy for the frustration that this is causing you , they are unique to your particular family situation and are by no means indicative of a general trend in academia . As I said , academia is a big place and you will certainly find in it all sorts of people leading all sorts of lifestyles , both healthy and unhealthy . If you are considering going into academia , I would advise you to make the choice based on whether you feel that this is the right decision for you given the lifestyle that you plan to live , and to not consider the examples of your sister and your father to be representative of anything .
DOI 's are managed by Crossref.org . For each DOI , Crossref 's database has a redirect to the current location of that digital object , and the owners can move things around and update the Crossref database as needed . When you follow a link to <URL> ... , the crossref servers redirect this request to the current location of that paper . As mentioned in another answer you can lookup an article in the crossref.org database to see whether or not it has a DOI . Recent articles have typically been assigned a DOI by the publisher , and most publishers put the DOI on the title page of the paper so it 's easy to find that way . Older articles were originally published without a DOI , but the publisher may have assigned one after the fact . If the publisher has not already assigned a DOI , then JSTOR may have assigned a DOI to the article that will point to the copy of the article in the JSTOR database . This is a service offered to publishers by JSTOR , but not all publishers use it . Thus not all articles in JSTOR have DOI 's . It appears that the article you linked to has not been assigned a DOI by either its original publisher or JSTOR and thus has no DOI . I ca n't find the article in the crossref database . The " stable URL " that you linked to is probably the best way to link to the article .
I am not so sure that your final year thesis has actually ' failed ' . It is not actually expected that many students will propose something truly new in their bachelor 's thesis . The purpose is to teach you how to research a topic and write about your research . In this case , the fact that your supervisor did not give you much guidance or direction may actually be seen as positive , since you have succeeded in finding the relevant papers on your own , and have ( I presume ) written a decent paper about your research . You are now heading into a phase where you will be expected to go beyond a literature search and propose " something new " . Finding the relevant references is a basic skill required of any researcher . So is being able to work independently ( that is , without someone always telling you what to do and where to focus your research ) . Your current supervisor 's supervisory style has forced you to do this -- point out this fact in your SOP ! Take credit for having initiative and independence , and do not see your final year thesis as failed . It may not be outstanding , but it has served the purpose well .
My situation is different from yours , but analogous . I have observed a lot of academic discourse on MathOverflow , and even some on Math.stackexchange . I have registered for conferences online and participated , even without a current academic affiliation ( industry affiliation is good but not required : check with conference organizers and your employer ) . The real key is to find a group of people who will either a ) work with you remotely ( say by email ) or locally ( if you are lucky ) , or b ) willing to critique and perhaps mentor you in some arrangement , or c ) willing to spend a few minutes of time giving their opinion of what should happen , or d ) willing to tolerate occasional communication and friendly interaction , on a fairly infrequent basis . MathOverflow is a good way to start at d ) and work your way up the chain . Answer a few questions , post some good ( and I mean GOOD ) questions , and you will more quickly find online presence to develop a relationship which may be useful in real life . You can show your technical chops , sometimes get the fast track on research , and get a lot out of it , even some socializing . However , follow the FAQ : MathOverflow is not for discussion , ill-formed questions , or solving homework , and they are not prone to giving hints to graduate exercises , especially if it smells like asking them to do the work for you . There are also some reasons to prefer math.SE over MathOverflow for submitting questions , but I think doing well at the latter will be more beneficial for you . My impression ( but I could be wrong ) is that your question above would not go over well at MathOverflow , since it deals more with " sociology of math " than with math itself . It might be quicker to reach your goals by hanging out near a large Math department with free food , but I would bet cash money that the above is actually quicker . Good luck at MathOverflow . Once you get to b ) or a ) , you will find out other opportunities outside academia to help you with research .
First of all , I do not like the tone of your question ( no offense ) . It seems like you are having a personal vendetta with those authors , which is a ) silly b ) unjustified ( they did not anything to harm you personally ) c ) counterproductive for your purpose of publishing your work . Let 's summarize some facts : However they claim to be state-of-the-art Either they are or they are not . If this paper is not the state-of-the-art , you should compare your work against the " true " state-of-the-art . If they are considered the state-of-the-art by the community , you should acknowledge that fact . In fact , if this paper has obvious disadvantages , this is even better for you , since it will be easier to show why your approach is better . they did some things which basically amounts to cheating their scores You are probably exaggerating . Some kind of overselling results is normal , but you are implying malpractice , which is not that common . So , tone it down and try to express a cold , neutral and objective evaluation of the other paper , with lots of arguments and experiments that back your opinion in your paper . Also , when you are objective and not trying to trash the other paper , reviewers will buy more into your argumentation . Also , consider that the authors of this paper might also be : a ) your future reviewers b ) your future collaborators c ) your future employers . So , treat your " opposition " with respect . This makes it easier for them to treat you with the same respect and more easily acknowledge and digest the fact that your method is better and their method is worst ( they are after all a part of the same community ) , which makes future collaborations easier and improves your visibility . As part of the introduction of a paper I want to write some critique on previous research Critique is not a motivation . You should first discuss the problem , why it is important , very briefly what previous methods have done on this problem and then you say very briefly and in a very neutral way the shortcomings of previous methods ( not just this one paper but all that have come before ) and why your work will be better . Then you slightly augment this argumentation in the related work section ( about their shortcomings ) again neutrally . It is your experiments section that needs to truly show why your method is better and how much better it performs , only after very thorough and exhaustive experiments that will overcome every reviewers ' doubts . TL ; DR. Keep your critique short , neutral and objective . There is not need to be humble about the advantages of your method but that does not need to be by trashing previous works .
I do n't recall ever having received such an e-mail as an editor , so it 's not standard ( let alone mandatory ) , but I would n't be unhappy to receive one . I doubt anyone would care enough to make it worth the effort , but it could be a nice gesture if you feel inclined .
In order to return to academia , you will need to satisfy certain requirements . Most academic jobs require holding a Ph.D. in the relevant field . You already have one . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Teaching jobs require demonstrated teaching experience . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . You could certainly try to build a track record of successful teaching by getting in touch with a local community college and offering to teach a few courses - possibly even while holding your industry day job . If you are serious about returning to academia , this would be an investment , not a source of income , so you could offer to teach for little or no remuneration . Research ( and teaching ) jobs require publications . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Instead , get up to speed on current research , find a good open problem , work on it and publish some papers . Finally , contacts will be invaluable . A second Ph.D. wo n't help you here . Instead , attend conferences , give presentations , get to know people , leave a good impression and hint that you would like to return to academia . Note the common thread going through all these points : a second Ph.D. in the same field wo n't help you . Instead , invest your time in building the kind of portfolio ( teaching , publications , contacts ) that you do need . This will likely be an uphill battle , but if you are motivated enough , then go for it . Good luck !
Weight in academia is carried mostly by peer-reviewed research publications , published in academically reputable venues such as research journals , conferences , books with reputable publishers , reputable preprint servers , ... If you get these publications from industry research , you get academic weight . A famous example for prominent research in electrical engineering done in industry are the <URL> . Codes and operational manuals are not academic publications , and typically carry little weight . In order to get that , you have to publish academic papers about the codes and manuals , or publish papers about research results obtained with them .
1 ) Psychologists on Psychologists : Helmreich , Robert L. ; Spence , Janet T. ; Beane , William E. ; Lucker , G. William ; Matthews , Karen A. ( 1980 ) , " Making it in academic psychology : Demographic and personality correlates of attainment " . Journal of Personality and Social Psychology , Vol 39 ( 5 ) , Nov 1980 , 896-908 . ABSTRACT : Examined personality , demographic characteristics , publication rate , and citations to published work in a sample of 141 male and 55 female academic psychologists . Reputational rankings of their graduate schools and current institutions were significantly related to citations , as were components of achievement motivation . Mastery and work needs were positively related to citations , whereas competitiveness was negatively associated with the criterion . Large sex differences were found in citations , with men receiving significantly more recognition and producing at a higher rate . A model of attainment in psychology is proposed , and possible explanations for the differential attainment of the sexes are explored . ( 26 ref ) ( PsycINFO Database Record ( c ) 2012 APA , all rights reserved ) 2 ) A more general review paper that includes a discussion and literature on psychological factors : Fox , M. F. ( 1983 ) . " Publication productivity among scientists : A critical review " . Social Studies of Science , 13 ( 2 ) , 285-305 . available at <URL>
When I have dealt with extra credit in the past , it was simply retained in the records until the very final accounting of scores at the end of the course . Thus , if the exam was out of 100 points , it was still considered to be out of 100 points , and some people simply had more than the maximum possible . When grades were combined together in the final accounting at the end of the course , having a score above the maximum effectively ended up helping compensate for lower scores on other tests ( though perhaps not one-to-one , depending on relative weighting ) . If a particularly amazing student turned out to get more than the maximum in the class overall , then it would n't affect anybody at all : the curve was n't shifted and they simply got top marks , as they would have if they 'd gotten the maximum .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
I would like to suggest that you read the speech <URL> on how to do great research . It 's one that I revisit every once in a while when my own scientific motivations are becoming unclear and need to be refreshed . In reading it , it 's important to keep in mind that the speech is thirty years old , and it is addressing things that happened even decades before that , so there are some jarring cultural gaps both with regards to science and with regards to the rest of society . Nevertheless , I find the central ideas to be still very relevant and valuable today . Importantly , Hamming distinguishes between things that you need to do in order to not fail and things that you need to do in order to have a real impact . These are very different , and it is important to distinguish between them . Important research is not the same as any of the " productivity metrics , " and the correlation is often a trailing indicator , not a leading indicator . For example : you say you are concerned that you are publishing only one paper per year . Step back and ask : why am I concerned about this ? You can publish lots of papers without ever doing anything really creative or important . You can have a full , tenured , and comfortable career that way . And honestly , that 's an OK choice to make . Some people go too far the other way , and strike out so deep into their own creative world that they can never publish their ideas , and they also fail to have an impact ( indeed , the most extreme of them we label cranks ) . In between is the dangerous and subversive world that Hamming describes , where you teeter back and forth on the balance between compliant conformity to metrics and egotistical creative rebellion . It does n't guarantee greatness , but it may be a fascinating ride , and it just might get you somewhere really worth going .
I find this question very interesting but difficult to tackle . It will be difficult to provide specific answers to a general hypothetical situation since one is left with too many unknowns . First , one could wonder what the policies at the university are like ? Do they have a panel for scientific fraud , misconduct etc. ? Are there guidelines in place ? Then , we deal with persons and each situation is unique . People cheat for a variety of reasons from fear and feelings of inferiority and inadequacy , through stress and peer pressure to the narcissistic or psychopathic . Thirdly , the severeity of the problem is on a continuous scale and the response depends where you are on that scale . This also holds for the reverse problem , what works in one place may not work in another for these reasons . In your question you state you wish to keep harmony but in essence the fact that " you " are uneasy with someones less than adequate research methods is already disharmony . So regardless if you do or do not do anything , there will be disharmony , either you will feel bad or someone else will . So there is no painless way out . As for the case . I can see that you describe a sliding scale for what I would call poor science ( overinterpreting results ) to actual falsification of results . In the latter case , it is clear , one " must " pursue the problem . How this is done will vary but I am sure there are guidelines in place either at the university level or at a national level ( on my home turf the national science foundation provides such services ) . In the case of someone producing poor science by either , for example , being too lazy to do the work or by jumping to conclusions , there can be only one way forward : to try to confront the person and have open discussions around the science ( or lack thereof ) to bring out the problem in the open . It may be possible to start a discussion group where you read and discuss each others manuscripts . Such discussions are useful under any circumstances to help improve the manuscript and spot problems before submitting to a journal . Under such circumstances the problems can be discussed ( if they become solved is a different matter ) . My sense is that a person who is aware of their shortcomings is not generally fond of talking about them so you may end up having these discussions with everyone but the one you want to target .
It somewhat depends of the publication style that you use for your thesis . For example , APA ( 6th edition ) does not recommend to cite standard office software and programming languages . Therefore , if you would follow the APA guidelines , you 'd just mention Python everywhere you need without citing any sources , however , you 'd have to cite the MATLAB software . See the " Computer Software/Downloaded Software " section in <URL> for an example of how to format software references . Applying this style , I came up with the following citation ( note it 's a hybrid of the two approaches , due to my attempt to accommodate the company 's geography ) : MATLAB . ( 2012 ) . MATLAB ( Version 8.0 ) and Statistics Toolbox ( Version 8.1 ) [ Software ] . Natick , MA : The MathWorks , Inc. . Available from <URL> Please note that citing MATLAB , following some other publication styles , such as Chicago , is discussed in <URL> . If you use LaTeX to create your thesis , <URL> can help .
Damien Igoe 's answer is very accurate , however , I would add that I think it is possible to interpret what someone wrote in a different way than others have previously interpreted . However , your arguments should not be confused with the other authors ' arguments . Originality in analysis is often welcomed . However , originality in structure should be done very carefully . Common structures exist for a reason . In my field , it is common to switch between the reviewed author 's points and your own : Jones ( 1991 ) claimed that the primary motivator for workers was public recognition while Smith ( 2004 ) believed that workers were more concerned with monetary compensation . I will show that both were correct by showing that workers really care most about their compensation being publicly higher than the average for their position .
The title <URL> as the name of an advanced degree was first awarded in <URL> at the Humboldt University of Berlin in the 19th century . From there it spread to the US , Japan and elsewhere in Europe . The chicken and egg problem was simple : you do n't have to have a PhD to certify someone as an expert in some field of knowledge if you are already a world-leading authority in that field of knowledge . The faculty at the Humboldt University at that time were all already widely known experts , and so they were able to credential other as experts .
end question
start question
How to phrase the title in a presentation at an academic interview ?
You do n't need to include any of the proposed titles in your presentation . They all come across as stilted and affected , and are entirely unnecessary . Instead , if this is a public presentation , treat it as you would any other such presentation : indicate the title of your talk as you normally would have it , and so on . If this is the " private " presentation to the faculty , then you should give it a title representing your current and future research interests . You do n't need to say " what " the presentation is for -- again , the location of the talk should be sufficient .
If you literally read a script , word-for-word , and do not have a teleprompter , you are going to be looking down too much and not looking at your audience enough . Even if you write a script , it would be better to have notes that help you keep the main points in order , and practice until you can give the complete talk in the required time just glancing occasionally at your notes .
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
Coining a new term in the title of your paper -- while defining it there or not -- is definitely something that you are permitted to do ( so it is " proper " , as you ask ) . I have seen this thing happen : the first example that sprung ( ! ) to my mind was Duchin , Moon Curvature , stretchiness , and dynamics . In the tradition of Ahlfors-Bers . IV , 19 -- 30 , Contemp . Math. , 432 , Amer . Math . Soc. , Providence , RI , 2007 . [ First sentence of the MathReviews description of the paper :] The author introduces stretchiness , a new and interesting notion describing a kind of curvature of a metric space . On the other hand , not only is this the first use of " stretchiness " in all of MathReviews , it is also the last . A recent paper of mine is called " Quadratic reciprocity in abstract number rings " , and you have to read the paper ( or at least the abstract ) to learn what an abstract number ring is . Whether you should use a new term in the title of the paper is a very subjective and personal choice . I guess it 's no secret that many , many people instinctively roll their eyes a little when they encounter a new word being coined . ( In fact , I this to be an interesting socio-linguistic phenomenon . But moving on ... ) Making up your own language can make you look arrogant , overly playful , simply ignorant of existing nomenclature , and so forth . But the majority of academic terminology was coined by some prior academic within the relatively recent past rather than the mists of prehistory : as new ideas and new objects are created , we need new words for them . Maybe -- maybe -- a good rule of thumb for this is that if you do n't feel acutely that something would be lost upon removing your new term from the title , then it really does n't need to be there . If you introduce the terminology within the paper itself , then you give the community a chance to chew on it , and then others can decide whether full promotion of the new term is a good idea . In fact , if I apply this standard to my own paper above , I am coming around to the idea that the title could be changed . The concept of an " abstract number ring " is not as important to me now as it was when I first started writing the paper . Whether it is good or bad in your particular case seems impossible to answer without ( i ) seeing the title of your paper and ( ii ) having some real expertise and wisdom in the subject area of your paper . I would suggest that you find someone who satisfies ( ii ) -- e.g. a current or former advisor or mentor -- and show them your paper .
If it 's published in the conference proceedings , it 's published . You can list it as a conference publication in your CV . You ca n't publish it again in conference proceedings . Regarding publishing it ( or an extended version ) in a journal , see <URL> especially <URL> .
Collaboration is generally seen as a major strength in computer science and computational science , not a weakness . One of the biggest questions we ask about any faculty candidate in my department is " Who in the department/college will they work with ? " We do occasionally hire faculty that work alone in their cave and occasionally emit theorems , but they 're rare exceptions ( and even they still work with their students ) . The most important thing is to establish a reputation as a leader in your collaborations , rather than a follower . You need to establish your own research agenda , instead of just following someone else 's . More importantly , you need to be seen to have your own research agenda , instead of just following someone else 's . Your agenda must be visible in your publication record , in your recommendation letters , and ( eventually ) in your funding record . To this end , it is very important to do a few things : Limit your collaborations with more senior researchers , especially your advisor , especially between getting your PhD and getting tenure . As I 've suggested elsewhere , publishing at least one paper without your advisor before you graduate is a strong signal of independence , even if you have other coauthors . Once you have your PhD , DO NOT publish with your advisor for at least a few years . Do not always publish with the same set of coauthors . It 's fine to have two or three different groups of people that you always work with , as long as you can wind a consistent story that ties most of your work in those different groups together . ( Once you have a permanent job :) Get at least one grant as a principal investigator , not just as a co-PI . Definitely join other grants as a co-PI , too , but you must have at least one grant with your name on top to get tenure .
First , some conferences have really strict timing and you will be given no extra time . Second , if there is important slide or two , just do it . But make sure that you only slightly extend your time ( e.g. 10 % ) . If you are going to extend it by 50 % , or 200 % ( I saw that , and I was pissed at both the speaker and even more - the chair for allowing that ) - please , do n't . Side note : as a chair I am an ass . And while I give something like 1 min grace time ( for 15 min talks ) , then after that : speaker : " But there is an important slide afterwards ! " me : " But not as important as other participants ' time . " EDIT : By all means I recommend rehearsing and finishing on , or before , time . I only answer the question - whether to use extra 40 sec for 2 unfinished slides or not . " You should prepare to avoid such situation " is as on-topic as " you should go fishing instead of attending a conference " . ( If the question is " Given X , should I do A or B ? " all legitimate answers should assume " X " , even if it is a suboptimal/nasty/unprofessional / embarrassing situation . )
Emphasize strengths that mirror what would be expected for a 10-year Academic career : No peer-reviewed publications ? List instead all the internal white papers you 've written . Mention any academic collaborations when describing roles . ( No collaborations ? List internal cross-departmental collaborations . ) List trainees/interns you 've mentored . List any important talks/presentations you 've given related to your research . It wo n't be the same , as the level of discourse when talking to other researchers is different than when talking to senior managers , but it does demonstrate presentation experience . Get very strong letters of recommendation attesting to your strength as a researcher , communicator , and mentor .
There are many options which can be made by themselves or in some combination . You can design a " card " to attach to the mail which could be informative or aesthetically pleasing ( but do not make it a huge file ) . You can , as I and my former adviser do , make a " Christmas letter " that summarizes the year both academically and private . You need to adapt to your audience here since the private section should not be too detailed if your are not really close friends , but comments on travels with a nice shot is never a bad idea . You can divide the send list up into different categories but the backside of this is that if you group people and group them wrong ( from their perspective , it can become embarrassing ) . The previous point is also true for listing people in some order ; so alphabetical , even in the way you list the e-mail addresses , is probably wise . Do not emphasize Christmas and New Year per se since not everyone may be celebrating these primarily Western holidays . Use something more neutral formulation such as " Best Holiday Greetings " or " Best Wishes for the Holiday Season " . Again , know your audience and adjust . You can send a general more formal greeting to a larger group and then follow up with a more personal greeting to specific people you wish to share more personal greetings . So , think about the options and combine to taste .
I believe it 's only appropriate in the type of writing where you are in a position to give the reader excercises . That is , in course books or other learning material . There , I think it 's fine , assuming you 've already given enough information for them to be able to perform such an excercise . In papers or theses , you 're actually trying to convince the reader that you 're right - the reader is in the position of power , not you , as you want something from them ( to accept your ideas ) and not vice versa . Therefore , I 'd never write such a phrase in a paper or thesis . It 's of course a viable requirement to leave out some parts of the work , either because of space constraints or because they 're trivial , long but straightforward , would derail the course of the text , or something similar . If possible , such parts can be delegated to an appendix , or left out entirely . But I would accompany this with different phrasing , something like this : The formula ( 7 ) can be obtained from ( 6 ) using straightforward application of [ insert appropriate math branch here ] A detailed proof of statement ( 4 ) unfortunately exceeds the scope of this paper . The derivation of ( 3 ) from ( 1 ) is too long to present here , but it can be worked out using a symbolic computation system such as Mathematica . Equation ( 7 ) follows from a straightforward application of this-or-that theorem to equation ( 5 ) ; we refer the reader to existing literature on the topic for details of this .
A CEng qualification ( it is post-nominal ) is awarded on the accreditation of the engineering experience and qualification achieved . The full specification of the necessary standard is shown in the document entitled <URL> . Although CEng is not a title it does enable you to work towards the Engineering title of <URL> ( pre-nominal ) which is awarded by <URL> . In Academia in the UK it would be expected that researchers and Academics in engineering ( STEM ) hold both professional and academic qualifications and titles as they are part of the education path for professional practicing engineers . Thus only possessing a PhD would make you a less qualified than other applicants or colleagues . For career development it is useful to have a full set of qualifications , including membership of the relevant professional bodies . A BSc and MSc ( in an accredited degree subject ) would normally be considered the academic level necessary for the CEng topped up with an appropriate amount of relevant professional practice . If the PhD contained an appropriate amount of project management and technical engineering content it could satisfy the professional component of the CEng , but not always . Sometimes a period of employment might be needed to top-up . A fee is payable for the application to cover the accreditation of your qualification and experience and then an annual membership fee thereafter . If you stop paying the membership fee you are not considered an active professional and therefore the qualification/title lapses . If you use the qualification/title without paying professional fees then this is considered an act of unprofessionalism . I have a set of such qualifications in computing and use the letters : Eur Ing MBCS CITP CEng in formal academic contexts . It is useful in explaining to students about the paths to qualification and professional practice in our subject . It also shows that the person teaching them is fully qualified to do so , and knows the material from professional practice and not just from books .
Whether a tool works for you or not depends on your work style , so general recommendations are difficult . However , you can use it for example to read digital articles . There are some literature management tools that work well with iOS devices , and you can read any PDF with readers like GoodReader . With the later you can , for example , <URL> . You can also directly access your files if you use , e.g. , Dropbox ( can be helpful in meetings ) . There are also apps available for classroom management , if you do a lot of teaching . You can use it for presentations ( Keynote on iOS is okay ) . It 's nice if you travel to conferences ( for emails and the like ) . In short , there are many uses , but it depends on your work style . Question I 'd have would be how your colleagues use the iPad ( if it 's an department wide thing ) . Also : That 's a nice problem to have . :-)
I apologize for the length of my reply , but I think this is a really great question that I discuss with undergraduates and even grad students all the time , and want to use this as an opportunity to share some of my thoughts with you . I completely agree with the points that Fbio Dias made in his answer . However , I want to add one general tip with you that I have found to be extremely effective in my experience both presenting talks and posters as well as judging them . The way I see it , when undergraduate talks/posters are judged , there may or may not be certain specific criteria against which you will be evaluated , but there are certain important subtleties in how you conduct yourself when talking about your work that will almost always affect your evaluation whether there is specific criteria or not . Let me clarify : As Fbio Dias mentioned , there are many important technical factors that are commonly taken into account when judging presentations , but aside from this , I believe that one of the most powerful tools to get great scores on research talks is to demonstrate some passion and interest into the work you are presenting . This is typically the biggest problem with undergraduate presentations . Undergraduates are often not very well-versed in the big picture of their research project and therefore end up simply presenting what they did and what data came of it and what they think it means ( or what their advisor told them it means ) . There is rarely any visible interest in the work , or evidence of creative thought on the part of the student , and this is the biggest factor that separates a great undergrad talk from all other undergrad talks . No matter how dull your research talk may or may not be to you , when you stand up there in front of all those people , make sure to talk and act like you 're the most excited person in the room about the work that you have done . This gets people 's attention , in my opinion , above all else . Some great ways of doing this are : Never , ever , ever , ever , ever read from your slides , especially your title . Always come up with a great " prose " way to describe your whole project and then your data . Try to look at your slides as little as possible , unless you 're pointing out something on a figure . Look at the audience , glance around the room . In a scientific forum setting , simple presentation skills often directly translate into command of the material being presented . A great way to prevent yourself from doing the above is to not have many words on your slides , this keeps people interested and keeps you from reading to the audience . Many undergrads believe that their research can not be presented without many words on the slides , but there is almost always a creative way to do this . Question yourself , and question your research . This does not mean you should tell the audience that your conclusions are not accurate , but rather avoid being too rigid in how you describe your conclusions . Avoid words phrases like ' definitely , ' ' clearly , ' ' this means that , ' ' we discovered , ' or any version of the word prove/proof/proved , unless used as a technical term such as ' mathematical proof . ' Always talk about your work in terms of what it could mean for the future , For example , talk about some interesting data that you could n't yet explain ; offer several possible ways to frame your conclusions ; try to add a few " next steps " to your presentation ( and not as a list on the last slide , but work it in in a few places as you talk about your work ) . If you anticipate a question or questions from the audience that you will probably not know how to answer , bring it out in the open as part of your presentation , and say that you are still working to understand that particular part of your project . Some of these things may seem trivial or obvious , but these are probably the most common " mistakes " undergraduate students typically make when giving oral presentations . I say " mistakes " lightly because it is obvious that sometimes the student simply does not get the proper guidance from their advisers , either about their project , or about how to present the work properly , or both . In these cases , of course , acting like you truly love your project may not be possible because it may not be true . But either way , what it boils down to usually , coming back to something Fbio Dias said above , is that at the undergraduate level , the expectation is less on whether the results are impressive , but rather whether you can demonstrate that you are a good researcher , and that you have done the most with the results that you have . Good Luck !
Largely , it is cultural . So far as I understand it , the idea is that " your record should speak for itself . " Of course , you are selling yourself to a degree , by how you choose to put which pieces forward , whether to choose a " selected " versus a " completist " format , etc. . The range of acceptable variation , however , is much narrower than for a job resume , and the format is built around showing credibility ( in the form of accomplishments ) rather than enthusiasm and fit with business goals ( which is the goal of a resume ) .
<URL> : " the title or abbreviated title of a volume printed at the top of left-hand text pages or sometimes of all text pages " It allows readers to determine which paper they 're looking at just by glancing at the top of the page . If your actual title is already very short , use your actual title . If your actual title is not very short , use an abbreviated version of it as the running title . ( The maximum length is often set by the publisher ; for example , <URL> sets the maximum length of the running head to 50 characters , <URL> allows 55 characters , etc. )
Based on my experience , attending in conferences as the volunteers often makes you perform some pre-defined tasks , based on the considered role for you , tightly . As an instance , you might be recruited at the reception desk of the conference and most of your time will be dedicated to the registration-based stuffs and the related matters . Or seemingly , you would be engaged with the support team to make the conference atmosphere more convenient for the participants . So , you might conclude that most of your time would be dedicated to performing the tasks , as well as possible . But as most of the tasks might no fill all of your time at the conference , a good plan could be attending at the conference presentation sessions or conference lectures , are which within the scope of your interest . Of course , based on your chance and smartness , you may be able to grab some special opportunities . Here is my own experience : Once , I was at the service of the escort team at a conference and was responsible for accompanying the guest lectures of the conference to the hotels and conference hall , back and forth . Within the 3-day period of the conference , I did succeed to talk with one of the big GURUs of the control systems on the planet and culminated my raw ideas by his deserving assessments . So , just open your eyes and be on the edge of your seat to grab every sparkling opportunity . Good luck
At least in the USA , the number is probably much smaller than 5 percent . The reason for this is that there are generally fixed lengths for education , and minimum enrollment ages at which the process can start ( at least for publicly educated students , who are still the majority ) . Finishing two or more years ahead of schedule means that you probably have had at least two events that belong to the following categories : Started education a year earlier than " normal " ( perhaps because of birthday-limited enrollments ) Skipped a grade during primary or secondary ( high-school ) education " Accelerated " college studies by reducing the expected enrollment time by either a semester or a full year ( through early accumulation of credits via work in high school , or taking college placement exams , credit overloading , and other methods ) The first is the most common , but still only applies to about one-third of the population . The others are much less frequent , with the second probably pertaining to only about 1 percent of students ( if that many ) . The third also probably is not that common , but I do n't have hard numbers ( but again , probably less than 5 percent of college students finish in three years or less ! ) . Now remember that you have to have at least two such events , and you can start to see why the odds are stacked against a 5 percent rate .
For tenure-track positions my department generally invites 3 candidates for on-site interviews after doing phone screenings . This is what I have seen from a lot of universities in the US . Other types of positions do n't have standard rules . Non-tenure track and adjuct positions are filled as needed , do n't involve as rigorous of interviews , and may never be brought on-site . Postdocs are usually hired by the individual PI rather than the department .
A book or paper on writing is a good introduction but can usually not solve everything . Reading a book does not mean you can reproduce what it teaches , particularly with writing since it is something that needs lots of practise . One problem is that writing is a question of both knowing how to structure the science but also a question of building and formulating the text , the latter being a language issue . So it is usually relatively easy to teach students how the technical side works and provide explanations for why . Teaching students how to be concise and precise is another question and without lots of practise it is quite difficult to get anywhere . During a thesis much of the language issues are ironed out by constant revisions sugested by the advisor . I also point out to all my students that writing is a life-long learning process and thatit is never to late to develop and change your writing . However , I have some sources I fall back to : Katz , M.J. From research to manuscript . A guide to scientific writing . Springer Day , R.A. and Gastel , B. , How to write and publish a scientific paper . Cambridge The <URL> OWL is also very useful . For language ( English ) I have ( aside of Strunk &amp; White ) found Glasman-Deal , H. Science research writing for non-native speakers of English of use . There are of course lots of books around but all are definitely not good . A final gem is a short paper on abstracts Landes , K. , <URL> . Bulletin Of The American Association Of Petroleum Geologists . 50 ( 9 ) , 1992-1999 . Which provides an excellent description of the abstract .
As a non-native English speaker , I found the use of linking words lists very inspiring . I printed <URL> and carry it with me along with the paper draft of my thesis for immediate access . I also took an afternoon to brush up on my English ( which , I believe , was already fine to begin with ) and ended up reading most sections on this <URL> . In particular , I paid special attention to the page on <URL> , and it might help you too . On this page , they show how you can turn this hard-to-follow paragraph : The ancient Egyptians were masters of preserving dead people 's bodies by making mummies of them . Mummies several thousand years old have been discovered nearly intact . The skin , hair , teeth , fingernails and toenails , and facial features of the mummies were evident . It is possible to diagnose the disease they suffered in life , such as smallpox , arthritis , and nutritional deficiencies . The process was remarkably effective . Sometimes apparent were the fatal afflictions of the dead people : a middle-aged king died from a blow on the head , and polio killed a child king . Mummification consisted of removing the internal organs , applying natural preservatives inside and out , and then wrapping the body in layers of bandages . into this nicer one The ancient Egyptians were masters of preserving dead people 's bodies by making mummies of them . In short , mummification consisted of removing the internal organs , applying natural preservatives inside and out , and then wrapping the body in layers of bandages . And the process was remarkably effective . Indeed , mummies several thousand years old have been discovered nearly intact . Their skin , hair , teeth , fingernails and toenails , and facial features are still evident . Their diseases in life , such as smallpox , arthritis , and nutritional deficiencies , are still diagnosable . Even their fatal afflictions are still apparent : a middle-aged king died from a blow on the head ; a child king died from polio . There are others resources grouped into " Word &amp; Sentence Level " , " Paragraph Level " , " Essay &amp; Research Paper Level " . Finally , if you need help writing transition paragraphs between sections , I 'm not sure whether resources exist about this . I would suggest thinking about the high-level view of your work and reminding yourself ( and the reader ) why the previous section exists , why we are going to start the next one , and how they are connected within the big picture . During this paragraph , imagine your reader all of a sudden stops and says : " why the hell am I reading this already ? " -- this is your chance to remind them .
end question
start question
As a student , how much time should I spend helping other students with research ?
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
In my case ( pure mathematics ) it is about two or three weeks of hectic activity before the October 1 NSF deadline once every 2-3 years . I can not say that I do nothing else during that time but it definitely distracts me quite a bit . What helps is that we ( I and a few my colleagues and friends ) often apply for collaborative research grants ( so we have well-established separation of labor when writing , which increases the speed noticeably ) . The reports are easy if you have something real to show . I would say it takes me at most a couple of hours to write mine . Recommendation letters and reviews usually take much more time .
What you will soon realise is that there is no one CV to rule them all . More precisely , you will find that you need to tailor your CV for each job application etc , by ( de ) emphasising various parts of it . Getting a summer internship at McDonalds ? Emphasise the hamburger flipping . Applying for a grant , emphasise the research . Thus how much research experience you include in your CV depends what you are planning to use your CV for . If it were to get a PhD position , I would say " Yes " . Publications stay . They always count . Gradually , the research projects you did as an undergraduate will become uninteresting for your CV , for example , as you start filling your CV with new and exciting activities . This always happens . When you are starting your research career , you will be asked to review papers . You can list what journal/conference you reviewed for on your CV . Later you will be on conference PCs or journal editorial boards . Then all of the reviewing experience will become irrelevant for your CV .
The first thing I would do is to ask the committee chair what are my rights and responsibilities as an advisory member . In short , what is it expected from me . I guess I would be expected to ask questions but I will not participate on the final decision of the defence . Participation in a PhD defence committee seems to me as a good opportunity to learn critical thinking about research . The thinking every researcher should apply on his/her own work . Therefore , as a preparation I would recommend : ( as you mentioned ) Carefully read the dissertation and if you find something which is not clear to you even after several readings , ask about it look at some of the references you find interesting and try to ask yourself : " Is this reference appropriate here ? Why ? " in case some formulas or computations are present , you can try to reach the same result as the PhD candidate if you are interested in methodology you can ask the candidate why he/she used that particular method to do more , you can try to find another works on the same topic , read them and compare them with the dissertation as it is always good for discussion to have more information about the topic In case of public PhD defence , the audience can be very broad from family members who do not know what is the research about to an expert from another department who came to rise his/her ego by asking non-answerable questions . Here , the question depends on the person who is asking . No background knowledge is expected here and one should not feel restricted by the circumstances . My personal opinion is that one can ask really about anything as far as his/her intentions are good . If the question is irrelevant the PhD candidate or one of the committee should kindly explain why .
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
From my personal experience it is unusual for undergrad students to have taken 16 math graduate courses while he/she is still in the junior year . What you have taken clearly exceeds the expectations of most graduate programs . If the professors who taught the classes think highly of you , that could be a strong selling point for your graduate school application . As for research experience , you may not want to take it too seriously as a budding mathematician . As Krantz explained in the book A Mathematician 's Survival Guide ( which , btw , is a book you may want to read ) : Mathematics is a bit different [ than other natural sciences ] . We do n't use test tubes . The hard fact of life is that mathematics is a subject that builds vertically . You are not really qualified to do serious research - the sort of research that mathematicians actually do - until after you pass the qualifying exams . So research experience is great in exposing you to the world of math research , but your coursework performance may be sufficient to get you to the graduate school you want to be . I think most graduate programs wo n't mind that you are graduating in three years as long as you complete the same workload as those who graduate in four years . I should say that I 'm not in a math PhD program ; so take my advice with a grain of salt .
It is what it is . Some schools give you less opportunity for teaching than others ( e.g. , schools in the UK ) . If you are looking for a research postdoc , then having a lot of teaching experience is not too important . For instance , at my institution , we want to make sure you 're competent and not going to cause problems , but you do n't need to have won five teaching awards . This is evidenced primarily by your teaching letter . If you think you can get a decent teaching letter now , then I would n't worry about it . ( Note : if you 're TAing now and probably wo n't be again before you apply , consider having someone who will write you a letter observe your class . ) If you 're looking for a " teaching postdoc , " e.g. a temporary position at a liberal arts school , they typically want more evidence that you 're a good teacher , so you might try to actively look for more teaching opportunities . Note : presumably many other students at your institution have the same issue . Try finding out how much TAing recent graduates did and what kind of jobs they got after graduating .
It gives me serious doubts about going into academia . Let me try to put your mind at ease about this by first of all answering a slightly different question from the one you asked : it is very , very , very normal for academics to have families , and to spend a very good amount of time with their families over the holidays and at many other times . Put differently : there are some valid reasons why a person may not want to go into academia , but this is n't one of them . Now , getting back to your actual question : is it normal for people in academia to work too hard , at the expense of time with their families ? Well , it is indeed somewhat common , at least in the U.S. . But this is by no means unique to academia ; it is also common in the U.S. for people in many other industries and occupations to work too hard . The fact remains that there are many many people , both in academia and outside it , who manage to lead a very successful and productive professional life while maintaining a healthy balance between their personal and professional lives . Your sister 's situation sounds rather extreme and unhealthy to me . Deadlines are a common ( though not universal ) feature of academic life , but usually one knows a long time in advance that a deadline is approaching , and for most people it is not too difficult to plan ahead and finish a project sufficiently in advance of a deadline to make allowance for things like holidays , family reunions , or any other commitments or plans . If your sister is n't doing this , I can think of several possible explanations : Your sister is a young researcher who still has n't polished her skills of managing a complex schedule . She will improve with time . Your sister is the kind of person who is most productive under the pressure of a deadline . She may also improve with time as she finds that such things interfere with her personal life , or she may remain like this indefinitely . Your sister has poor relations with you and/or other members of your family , and simply prefers to do work ( or to pretend to do work ) during family gatherings . While some of these possibilities are indeed troubling , and you have my sympathy for the frustration that this is causing you , they are unique to your particular family situation and are by no means indicative of a general trend in academia . As I said , academia is a big place and you will certainly find in it all sorts of people leading all sorts of lifestyles , both healthy and unhealthy . If you are considering going into academia , I would advise you to make the choice based on whether you feel that this is the right decision for you given the lifestyle that you plan to live , and to not consider the examples of your sister and your father to be representative of anything .
I got my Ph.D. at NTU . Ph.D. students would generally be getting 21 days of leave for each calendar year ( i.e. Jan-Dec ) in both NUS and NTU ( see links below ) . With a 5 day work-week , that means a maximum of 4 weeks + 1 day of leave . This can be increased if the period coincides with one or more of Singapore 's 11 public holidays ( as <URL> by the Ministry of Manpower ) . No-pay leave may also be possible , if the Ph.D. supervisor agrees . Note that Ph.D. students would be still be working during the undergraduate summer break vacation periods . References : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The following is condensed from advice for academic job hunts that I 've read <URL> and <URL> - I imagine it should be somewhat applicable for jobs in industry as well : If you would be applying for a position at Fall , begin applying from summer the previous year - applications tend to be sorted during committee meets , and the earlier you apply , the fewer applications are there , so there are higher chances of getting your application noticed . Hence , you 'll want to draft your research statement , teaching statement and curriculum vit ( CV ) the summer before your search . If you are applying for industrial as well as academic positions , you probably want more than one resume , since achievement , skills , and goal-oriented resumes can be more effective in the industrial setting . The middle of January is when most schools stop accepting applications . Even then , keep submitting to any position you find through February , particularly if someone there recommends you apply . You will probably hear back with invitations for interviews in January and February , but sometimes even March and April . Get your letter writers primed as early as possible . You 'll need at most six letter writers , but no less than three , and you 'll want to ask them at least a month in advance with all your documents .
I think a department should share information with students that can affect them . A non-hire of faculty does n't affect students directly unless the students were recruited to the department with the promise of expanding in a certain area , and then this fell through . But I do n't know of a single department that would make such a promise to incoming students ( and certainly not undergraduates ) . On the other hand , if the department experiences a shortfall in funding that means that they have to change how they fund students , then these students must be informed as soon as possible since this materially affects them . Apart from these cases , one can certainly make the argument that sharing relevant information with students helps foster an atmosphere of collegiality and gives the students a sense of belonging . Within reason ...
Since the ordering of authors differs between fields the meaning and usefulness of a corresponding author also varies . In fields I am familiar with , the corresponding author is usually the same as the " first author " ( quotes because it may not be literally the first ) . Many journals therefore do not explicitly identify a first author unless different from the " first " . There are then several cases where the corresponding author may need to be identified . One example is when a person lacking a permanent academic address is first author . Then the supervisor may take on the responsibility for the paper and be corresponding author . This can be important since it can be near impossible to track down someone who has left academia and so the supervisor stands for continuity in terms of contact . There are many variants on this and in some cases , a person heading a project or who by legal obligations carries responsibility for a project may be identified as corresponding author . This could be the case with some governmental organisations where communications are funnelled through hierarchies for bureaucratic reasons . I am sure there are lots of examples good and bad but the main purpose of identifying corresponding author , unless first , is so that anyone requiring more information can go directly to the main source for such . So based on this background and the field you are in you may find a good way to determine corresponding author . In most cases , I would say it is the person who has done the most work , or the one who " owns " the project . It is not clear in some cases whether it is the student or the advisor who should be corresponding author . One also has to weigh in the intellectual work behind the project as a whole and from that perspective the person who has done the work , perhaps a detail in a much bigger perspective , may not be the appropriate person for details although that person has done most of the work for the paper in question . So in some cases the question is definitely harder to answer . Not being corresponding author , does not necessarily detract much from being first author since such details are not visible in literature searches and CVs .
Simple ideas : Seminar where a professor gives a talk on his/her current research . Provide beer . Invite an alum from one of the companies you 're talking about to give a talk on something new from the company . Provide beer . Simple cook-out , which includes beer ( even better if this is a recurring event , monthly , once a semester , etc. ) . More involved ideas : Mini-poster conference , where a quorum of students have posters about their current research . Alum can act as judges , if you want to award prizes . Provide beer . Invite a famous alumus to give a talk . This always involves more work than you 're expecting , but can have big pay-offs . Might necessitate actual cocktails ( and possibly pay for the speaker , but if you play it right you should find an alumnus willing to do it for free ) . Field-trip to a local engineering firm that may have something interesting to look at ( or a tour ) . Drinks at a local bar afterward .
I can not speak for faculty interviews personally and this may be redundant information but I interviewed at multiple " top ranked " schools for PhD admissions and in everyone of them I was asked where else I was interviewing and I told them the truth . Having said this , nowadays , most job talk notifications are available on the website of the university or college or institution where you are interviewing and it is relatively easy to determine this from a google search of your name . For instance , this year our department is hiring for 2 different job lines and there are quite a few faculty candidates giving talks every week . We always Google their names to find out where else they are interviewing . In the case of one particular candidate it was very useful to find out that that that candidate had put up a list of other institutions where he/she was interviewing this particular season . I do not think personally that giving them information about where else you are interviewing will add or subtract from your overall job application materials and probabilities . Best of luck for getting a job !
This is an excellent question , for faculty as well as students ! How important are these points in evaluating the teaching capabilities of a student ? Obviously this varies significantly in different departments and institutions , but in my experience , the scores themselves are not that important . My department does pay attention to these numbers when allocating future TAships , but definitely not in isolation . Narrative reviews from the instructors carry significant weight . The people doing the assignments also know which courses are unpopular , and which instructors are irresponsible , and adjust the evaluation accordingly , at least in principle . In practice , there are only three evaluations : ( 1 ) truly outstanding TAs , who are considered for teaching awards ; ( 2 ) truly abysmal TAs , who are not rehired , at least without retraining ( and since we have a TAship requirement , this has teeth ) ; and ( 3 ) everyone else . When we evaluate tenure-track faculty candidates , teaching ability is usually a second-order concern , but it is a concern . Poor evaluations on an applicant 's CV are a red flag -- why did n't they just omit them ? Good evaluations are mostly a signal to look further . Teaching awards carry more weight . Recommendation letters that directly praise the applicant 's teaching ability -- with concrete and credible details -- are even better . Similar issues arise when evaluating faculty for tenure , with one big difference : omitting the teaching scores is not an option . How does one ensure that the students are sincere in their evaluation ? You ca n't . Sorry . However , I believe you can increase the fraction of sincere ( and positive ) responses by consistently treating your students with respect . Make your expectations clear from day one , and enforce them consistently . Invite feedback throughout the semester , and respond to it quickly and appropriately . Apologize quickly for mistakes , thank students publicly for useful suggestions , but do not buckle on high standards . Give timely , consistent , and useful feedback on coursework . Above all , do not waste your students ' time ; the correlation between hard work and low evaluations is much higher if the students do n't see any benefit to doing the work . < Insert standard confirmation bias warning here . > How does the TA make the best of a bad job [ if the instructor is irresponsible ] ? First , do your own job as best as you can . Second , raise your concerns with the instructor ; be respectful but brutally honest . If the instructor is unresponsive , raise your concerns with your instructor 's boss ; be respectful but brutally honest . ( Note : Disagreement is not the same as being unresponsive . ) If your instructor 's boss is also unresponsive , your department does n't really care about poor teaching ; they 're likely to ignore your evaluations , even if they are low . Apart from holding weekly office hours and lenient grading ( ! ) , what is the maximum a TA can do , after all ? There are many more things that TAs can do . At a minimum , hold office hours that the students actually find useful ; do n't just show up . Distribute practice problems , and offer feedback on the students ' solutions . Hold weekly review/discussion/problem-solving sessions . As aeismail suggests , write review notes . If the instructor covered too much , distill down their main points ; if the instructor did n't cover enough , expand on the key ideas they missed . Offer to give a few guest lectures , and then give fantastic guest lectures . More self-servingly : Make sure the students see you working to overcome your instructor 's shortcomings . If the students do n't see you fighting on their behalf ( even if you are ) , they 'll write you off as yet another useless academic , like your instructor . But if you can make them believe you 're on their side , they 'll reward you . I think this is why students often reward " lenient grading " ; if the students think the coursework is a waste of time , they 'll see lenient graders as their allies . Obviously this all takes time . As aeismail says , TAs usually have many other responsibilities , especially to their own classes , projects , research , families , and sanity . It is frighteningly easy for committed and caring TAs to find themselves being abused by less committed instructors ( or even departments ) . Set limits .
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
I do n't think there 's anything " special " that 's unique to applying to academia that a graduate student can do to increase the odds of becoming a professor in the long run , particularly if one is going to do a postdoc later on . The two areas that might help are : Gain teaching experience that goes beyond the standard " recitation section " leader -- that is , into actual lecturing and other forms of direct interaction with students , as well as formulation of assignments and examinations . This might make a difference at schools which are more teaching-oriented rather than research-oriented . Formulate a well-defined scope for your future research activities , and also develop the tentative outlines for the first few projects that you 'd start in that field . This is an essential part of any professorial application , and the sooner you start working on it , the more polished it will be when you 're ready to apply for positions when the time comes . Beyond that , what makes someone a good candidate for a postdoc are essentially the same qualities that will help in being a good candidate for a professorship later on .
Do you want to dissuade the student from continuing because You think the student is not capable because of a lack of ability , You think the student might be capable , but just is n't engaging in the work , You do n't see the student is worth investing your time in , You think the student is wasting his/her money ? If ( 1 ) , then a frank discussion might be the best way . I have seen other PhD supervisors directly let their PhD students know that they think a research career is not for them . If ( 2 ) , you ought to move from dissuasion to a frank discussion in which you try and figure out the reason for the downturn in engagement . Is all well at home ? Is it just the usual mid ( ? ) thesis malaise ? Has the student lost the big picture and therefore the drive to do the research ? Why did the student start the research in the first place ? Has the situation changed - e.g. has the life goals been redefined/changed ? If ( 3 ) and/or ( 4 ) , if the student is paying for themselves , then it 's their money they are potentially wasting so I would n't concern yourself on how other people spend their money . However , the money is presumably paying your salary in part so your obligations to the student remain in that regard . In return however , you can set reasonable expectations on your student . If you make it clear that you expect your student to achieve reasonable goal A by reasonable deadline Z , and the student does n't , then that opens up another opportunity for a frank discussion along the lines of the need for effective prioritisation of research work and for-money work . EDIT : To bring this answer into line with the edited question , I would set out an agreed plan of work - and behaviour ( esp . showing up to meetings ) - with deadlines for the next 2/6/12 months . You might want to work with your Head of Department/School on this to ensure that your requirements are reasonable . It appears that you have already said to the student that in your opinion the student is n't PhD material . In setting out your agreed workplan , you are giving - formally - the opportunity for the student to show that he or she is capable of working to an agreed standard . If , as you say , the student is n't capable , then the student will fail and you can reasonably excuse yourself as his PhD supervisor . I am suggesting this cautious approach , as I am sure your Faculty will want to know why things went this way , and that you offered the best opportunity for your student ( or fee-paying client ) to succeed , before you ceased to be his supervisor .
Begin with the assumption that there are good reasons for the change : professors rarely make a large change in a course without thinking about why ( it 's just too much work to bother ) . Rather than beginning with your judgement ( which might or might not be justified ) , open with an observation and a question , something like : I was looking at my old notes , and I 've noticed that the examples have changed a lot and gotten significantly more complex . I was wondering if you could tell me a little bit more about how you 've changed the course and why ? Maybe the professor actually wants the class to be harder ; maybe they just wanted it to be more current and do n't realize it became harder as well ; maybe you are overlooking something ... all of these are possible , and until you understand how the professor is thinking about it , you do n't have enough information to figure out how to proceed .
You forget one consideration : do you enjoy using that skill ? To take your own example , I enjoy programming , and even though I might not learn or get anything technical from it , I enjoy solving someone 's else problem with some lines of code :) Of course , one should be careful of the time spent and the reward you can get from it , but doing something you enjoy is very different than doing something you can , but do n't particularly enjoy doing . For instance , I can probably install a server and manage a website ( with a CMS ) for someone , but I do n't enjoy it , so I would be very explicit about the benefit ( I do that for you if you do that for me ) . But I could do some cool coding on my free time . On a completely different aspect , it also depends if you intend to stay in academia : it 's a very small world , and the person you 're doing a favor to today might be the one sitting on your tenure committee in 20 years ( if you work in the same department and all stay in academia , it 's quite likely that your paths will cross again at some point in the future ) .
end question
start question
Website for professorship positions in Germany ?
I have covered this very recently in the answer to a <URL> . Firstly , there is is <URL> . It is a free service that should have you covered to a large extend . As a bonus , it is not strictly for offers in Germany , but also has some professorships in neighbouring countries ( although coverage for those is rather spotty ) . The most complete list is the newsletter sent out monthly by the <URL> , which is the union of German university teachers . This list is pretty much complete for Germany , but it does not have any info on professorships anywhere else . You need to be a member to receive this newsletter , and one can only become a member by having been employed in an academic post at a German university before . If you currently work in Germany ( e.g , as a PhD student or postdoc ) , you are either already a member or can easily become one .
Yes , you can . From <URL> : Can an author post his IEEE copyrighted paper on his personal or institutions ' servers ? Yes . An author is permitted to post his IEEE copyrighted paper on his personal site and his institution 's server , but only the accepted version of his paper , not the published version as might be downloaded from IEEE Xplore . Directly from their more recently updated paper policy ( <URL> ) : The policy reaffirms the principle that authors are free to post the accepted version of their article on their personal Web sites or those of their employers . Posting of the final , published PDF continues to be prohibited , except for open access articles , whose authors may freely post the final version .
TLDR : It trains you in both technical and soft skills ( technical writing , meeting management , etc. ) , and lets you gain experience with small and large industry projects , using different technologies . It essentially compresses multiple years of industry experience into two . There seems to be a lot of confusion about what the program actually is . The Professional Doctorate in Engineering ( PDEng ) programs offered at Dutch universities have more in common with industry traineeships than with a traditional academic doctorate . As such , most of the <URL> of a PhD on job propspects ( trouble actually writing code , far less job experience , etc. ) simply do not apply . For example , Eindhoven University of Technology describes their <URL> as follows . The Software Technology program is designed to prepare you for an industrial career as a technological designer , and later on as a software or system architect . It starts with 15 months of advanced training and education , including 4 small , industry driven training projects , followed by a major design project of nine months in a company . The program is specifically designed to teach MSc students with a good grasp of the theory how to efficiently apply that theory to practical applications . It is presented as a way to " fast-track " your career by gaining a lot of cross-disciplinary experience in only two years . They write the following <URL> : The Software Technology program has been around for more than 25 years and to date trained more than 370 technological designers . Most designers have joined the companies where they carried out their design assignments and many now fulfill a management position . Their alumni association <URL> released a <URL> ( pages 25-28 ) , stating Having a job as an XOOTIC is still easy : only 1 % of the XOOTIC 's is unemployed . [ ... ] By far the most XOOTIC 's have an indefinite contract ( 82.6 % ) . The OOTI program is known in the industry according to 80 % of the answers and is rewarded according to 44 % of the respondents . [ ... ] XOOTIC 's , considering what they know now , would still do the OOTI program ( 96.7 % ) .
I am not aware of initiatives in other countries . However , while VroniPlag started out with examinations of German doctoral theses , it is no longer limited to those . <URL> To the extent that this is a continuing trend , VroniPlag already is an international project . So the answer to the question in your title ( which differs from that in the body ) , whether online community investigations of PhD thesis plagiarism outside Germany exist , is yes .
Being in the situation of looking for postdoctoral positions , I can at least give you my feelings of how I would understand that the person I contacted is interested , but can not provide a position right now : First of all , replying is already a good sign of interest . There are many persons who do n't even take the time to answer to an official application for an open position ( apart from the standard acknowledgement email ) , and you have to consider that you do n't get the job if you do n't hear from them . So , if you take the time to answer , that shows that you have at least a bit of interest Then , if you provide a " personalized " answer , that shows that you took the time to read some of the applicant 's papers , then it 's clear that you are interested , and even if you ca n't provide a position , you might be interested in a collaboration . The ideal would be if you can invite the applicant to give a talk , even though it 's clear that there is no job following It would be a good opportunity for the applicant to talk about his work , to get some practice , meet new people , and that can also give you the opportunity to talk about creating a project together . Basically , when one contacts a professor even though there are no official open positions , there are no really high expectations . But knowing that the professor is interested , but has no funding , is great , because it also opens the possibility to apply for a position in one year or two , when some funding is available . In order to show your interest , you can consider it as offering a potential collaboration : you ca n't provide money , but you would be glad to work with the applicant .
As someone with a PhD who did a regular postdoc and now works in the private sector , the answer is definitely probably not ... maybe . As with all things , it depends on the job and your field . I have a PhD in Computer Science . I did research for a couple of years as a postdoc . I enjoyed my postdoc , but a great offer came along for a private sector job . In my field ( high performance computing ) , having a PhD is valuable whether you 're in research or industry . In fact , we hire fresh PhDs as well as folks with experience . That being said , if you were to go to a startup in NYC or Silicon Valley with a PhD in CS , I 'd imagine that while you would probably have as much chance of getting the job as anyone else , you probably wo n't be getting what you might call " reimbursed " for your opportunity costs . The big companies will have research arms where they know what to do with PhDs while the small ones wo n't . It all depends on what you want to do . If you want to get into research ( or get back into it eventually ) , having a PhD will be a must , even if you take a few years in industry to shore up financially . However , if you do n't get your PhD now , the chances of you finishing it later much smaller . There are plenty of people who do it , but if you look around your group right now , you can probably tell me how many you see . The exception is getting a job where your employer will essentially pay for your PhD ( not like an RA position where you make beans ) . There are some companies or research labs that will allow you to work on your PhD while you work for them , often using a project with your company as a part of your thesis if your interests align with those of your employers . You might be able to find a position like that .
I do n't think there 's a single answer to this question . Ultimately , departments look for the candidate who will be the best fit for a given position , and for the department as a whole . If you also subscribe to the view that the department would rather choose a candidate who is more likely to accept a given position , then that also changes the decision calculus . For the most part , however , I do n't think hiring committees are doing " hard " comparisons of citations ; that would just be foolish . Grant-winning experience also does matter , obviously , but that 's also something that can be learned and developed over time . So , ultimately , hiring tends to be a subjective process -- you can view the data in whatever " objective " light helps you get to the conclusion you want .
As others have stated , <URL> is the most used site for posting results . It seems that applicants from almost every discipline use their <URL> . However , it is n't very comprehensive when it comes to stats , and many people choose to omit the limited information that it can track . Their forums are sometimes frequented as well depending on the discipline , while some disciplines have other common discussion sites . As far as I remember , the <URL> at gradcafe was fairly active during the admissions season . I know that a lot of math grad admissions discussion goes on at <URL> , while most economics applicants gather at <URL> . I 'm betting that almost every discipline has some kind of forum or discussion site that people congregate at , but I am not as familiar with other fields . If you 're looking for in-depth profiles , these forums are often the best places to look . The sample size is n't very high , but most of the time they have some kind of " Profiles and Results " thread each year that people post in ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> ) .
This should not be a statement about your personal diversity ( " I am from Africa " ) , but rather a statement about how you can contribute to creating a diverse academic community , and how you can help students from diverse backgrounds succeed at the university . As Noah Snyder rightly points out in the comments , your personal diversity would be an obvious thing to include here with a discussion of how that will help you further the goal of attracting and retaining students from diverse backgrounds . If you have no relevant personal experiences , then this should be a discussion of how you plan to further the university 's goal of attracting and retaining students from diverse backgrounds . UC San Diego , which requires such a statement , maintains a webpage describing what should be included . The entire page can be found <URL> . A few bullet points from their document : What is the Purpose of a Contributions to Diversity Statement ? The purpose of the statement is to identify candidates who have professional skills , experience , and/or willingness to engage in activities that would enhance campus diversity and equity efforts . Are there any guidelines for writing a statement ? The Contributions to Diversity Statement should describe your past experience , activities and future plans to advance diversity , equity and inclusion , in alignment with UC San Diego 's mission to reflect the diversity of California and to meet the educational needs and interests of its diverse population . Some faculty candidates may not have substantial past activities . If that is the case , we recommend focusing on future plans in your statement . A more developed and substantial plan is expected for senior candidates . As candidates may not have particular past experiences , there is also some advice on " planned activities : " Planned Activities : The first step is to gather information on activities you would like to pursue while at UC San Diego and how they might fit into the research area , department , campus , or national context . You may consider but are not restricted to current or ongoing campus activities . For each proposed activity you include , describe the role you envision having and what you would like to accomplish in the next two to five years . Who would you like to engage in your efforts , and how would you plan to engage them ? Be as specific as possible , but realistic in terms of your effort and time commitment . In addition to the quotes above they have more information , including several example statements , and additional resources . They also have a section on how such statement are considered . Of course , all of this is specific to UCSD , but I imagine it generalizes to other institutions reasonably well .
I ca n't speak for disciplines other than philosophy , but some of the points below may translate to other fields . In philosophy I think that there are some departments and some philosophers who would feel that the VAP in math is very impressive , and others who will discount it completely or view it negatively . If your research area is mathematical ( e.g. philosophy of : math , logic , science , or decision theory ) , then teaching in a math department shows that you know math well enough that mathematicians are willing to hire you . That 's good : It 's a sign that you have the technical ability to do work in your area . You could also argue ( in interviews , letters of application , etc. ) that teaching math to undergraduates will help you teach mathematical philosophy to undergraduates . Those people whose research is in mathematical areas of philosophy are likely to be most impressed . But it can be bad , too : Some people on hiring committees will worry that you 're too mathematical . " Is he/she really a philosopher ? Will we be able to understand her/his research ? Have interesting philosophical conversations ? " Philosophy hiring committees often have to go through hundreds of applications . People mean well , but they 're busy , and there 's time pressure , and they sometimes end up making decisions based on trivial features or biases . Your math job can be one of those factors , either a positive one or a negative one . It may be that the math job would be most beneficial with the highest-ranked departments , but most jobs are not in those departments . I 'm not sure about the first point . If you take the math job , I recommend doing as much as you can to show that you 're a " real " philosopher through your publications and conference presentations . You can highlight both the benefits of your math job to a philosophy department , and what you 're also doing that 's purely philosophical . You should highlight these things in your application letters in way that does n't sound at all defensive ( although some people do n't read these letters ) . It might be even more valuable to have one of the people who writes a letter of recommendation -- a philosopher -- to highlight these points . ( Finally , any advice of this kind should be taken with a grain of salt . Or a whole shaker . No one really knows . )
Yes , you should start applying for jobs . You should have started several months ago , since it can take time to find a job , and after you do it may still take some months before the job actually starts . This depends strongly on what kind of job it is . Of course , if you are looking for an academic job in the US , the interviewing season is roughly November-March , so you want to time things around that . For industry jobs and academic jobs elsewhere , there is not usually a particular season to focus on .
The Smithsonian <URL> , specifically a ten-week summer internship for pre-dissertation grad students and 3-12 months of funding for post-dissertation grad students . Also , you get to work at the Smithsonian .
I 've received this form from hundreds of employers that later rejected me . I think schools that use it will send it to every applicant . So it does n't mean anything except that your application was received . I believe the reason for it being a separate form , rather than part of the application , is that it 's meant to be for statistical purposes only , and should not affect the hiring procedure . The best way to achieve this is to ensure that the hiring committee never sees it . So they send a separate form , to be returned to a separate office within the institution , which holds it confidential .
You submitted late and did half-baked job . It does happen to the best of us . It does not , however , make sense to expect the lecturer to invest on a piece of work that you yourself consider subpar . Any information that they could give you would probably concentrate on the things you anyway know are problematic in this submission . If you did your best job , detailed feedback from the lecturer is valuable in refining your work . But if you did n't , and you know it anyway , you would just utilize their time/attention to little effect and would take it away from students who did - in this particular instance - a better attempt .
I do n't think there 's anything " special " that 's unique to applying to academia that a graduate student can do to increase the odds of becoming a professor in the long run , particularly if one is going to do a postdoc later on . The two areas that might help are : Gain teaching experience that goes beyond the standard " recitation section " leader -- that is , into actual lecturing and other forms of direct interaction with students , as well as formulation of assignments and examinations . This might make a difference at schools which are more teaching-oriented rather than research-oriented . Formulate a well-defined scope for your future research activities , and also develop the tentative outlines for the first few projects that you 'd start in that field . This is an essential part of any professorial application , and the sooner you start working on it , the more polished it will be when you 're ready to apply for positions when the time comes . Beyond that , what makes someone a good candidate for a postdoc are essentially the same qualities that will help in being a good candidate for a professorship later on .
Test drive Grab a couple of local students of comparable level and have them do the assignments . Your own speed is not indicative - something that takes you five minutes may take ten minutes or may be incomplete after an hour ; only practical experience can show how it will turn out . In addition , usually setting up a working development environment can be a major time sink - if people use their own hardware and various operating systems , then some of them can waste a lot of time until they are able to run a ' hello world ' program ; you should have a clear plan on how you will handle it .
This may be field-specific , my answer refers to public ( in a way that attendees do not need any security clearance or something ) computer science conferences : I do not see any issues with posting these notes . In this day and age , commenting on whatever talk is currently being held live from within the talk on Twitter and Co. is becoming commonplace . I have been to several conferences whose organizers specifically recommended a particular Twitter tag so the comments from the audience members could be quickly found online , and once , there was even a projector set up that would display any comments posted tagged with the conference tag throughout the run of the conference . Likewise , photos from the conference presentations have sometimes been posted by the conference organizers and others . One of the nice features of this is that attribution comes almost for free - the conference tag already points out the event , and the time at which live comments are posted indicates what talk is currently being held . To make sure , you can always include a small note about the paper number or title , but that 's already sufficient to unambiguously identify the paper and the authors based on the conference schedule . Lastly , even though you may want to express certain opinions about the talks , in most cases it is generally good to be respectful toward the authors . Nothing is won by publicly humiliating them in any way ; if you have objections against their presentations , make them specific and tangible . Also , make sure you are aware whether you are referring to an actual shortcoming of the underlying research , or just to a presentation issue due to limited presentation time . If you think the issues are serious , you might even try and contact the author for a clarification , and then integrate that additional knowledge when writing or updating your note . The only time at a conference when I saw participants write somewhat respectless Tweets on a talk ( and thought they were rather appropriate ) was when a business person literally flooded the audience with buzzwords ( yes , in a <URL> - enabling way ) and thus delivered zero useful contents . That is definitely an absolute exception in conference talks .
Sure it is acceptable for a Lecturer to refuse to do this , given that it is n't a condition of the Lecturer 's being hired that they agree to publicly posting the information , nor is doing so strictly required for the lecturer to do the other parts of the job that are required . My own view is that it 'd be crazy not to make your information publicly available , since there 's no harm in doing so , but much harm in terms of lost opportunities from not doing it . Still , there 's no legal or even moral prohibition against making poor career choices .
Digital preservation is an evolving area , and the ability to preserve websites over the long-term is one of the most problematic areas . There are several reasons for this : the dynamic nature of contemporary websites ( especially in a format like a blog , where content is update regularly and interactive components such as commenting ) , hyperlinking ( which will eventually lead to broken links and broken images , which , if you point to content external to your site , is out of your control ) and the instability of Web formats ( websites might look better in one browser than another , much less how websites hold up over time ) are just a few of the challenges in preserving websites . There are , however , several things you can do to help preserve your website : Backup -- keep your content stored in more than one location ( on your server , on your hard drive , on an external hard drive , in the cloud , etc. ) and do n't use an external service as your primary storage location , as they can collapse at any time ( Geocities was a huge service when it was shuttered ) ; Keep up to date in changes in file formats and browser software -- when browsers get updated to view HTML 5 , 6 , or whatever may replace HTML in the future , will they be backwards compatible to be able to view the blog you 're authoring today , or will you need to migrate your website to a contemporary format ? ; Utilize pockets of expertise on campus -- archivists on many campuses have been working towards digital preservation solution and your university 's archivist ( especially at larger universities ) may be able to provide solutions for the long-term preservation of your website ; and Consider normalizing your website to a preservation format -- although creating a copy of your website as a PDF may mean losses in functionality ( in terms of interactivity ) , it is a way to preserve the content and appearance of the site in a file format that is considered a safer bet for long-term preservation . The Library of Congress also provides some tips on how to design preservable websites including following available web and accessibility standards , embedding metadata and maintaining stable URLs . Taylor , N. ( 2012 , February 6 ) . Designing Preservable Websites , Redux . Retrieved May 23 , 2012 , from <URL>
It never hurts to specifically check with your undergraduate advisor and the desired graduate school 's admission office just to make sure . My understanding is that as long as your current university acknowledges your completion of the undergraduate program ( regardless of whether you physically have the Bachelor degree certificate or not ) prior to you officially beginning your graduate program , then there should be no problem . But like I said , you should check in with your undergrad advisor so that they can inform you of any lingering policies or concerns .
end question
start question
Who writes Nature 's " News & Views " ?
From the <URL> News &amp; Views These articles inform nonspecialist readers about new scientific advances , as reported in recently published papers ( in Nature and elsewhere ) . This is a commission-only section . So the articles are selected and commissioned by Nature editorial staff , and written by invited authors . A quick look through recent News &amp; Views articles finds contributions from scientists and science writers ( including former Nature writing / editorial staff ) .
" Thank you , I understand . " ... and then let the subject drop . Also , consider that the expression you say may not have been sadness that the professor did not have time , but discomfort with having to say no to a request in person . In addition to possibly being true , " I do n't have time " is also often used as a standard face-saving code for " No . "
While I 'm not aware of any research on employees exposed to safety risks in the academic workplace , there are statistics on actual workplace injuries in a variety of occupations , including scientific occupations . If the incidence of injury is uniform across gender among those exposed to safety risks ( I do n't know if it is ) , then you can take this as a proxy for the gender distribution of those exposed to risk in the scientific workplace . In particular , the <URL> collects information on workplace injuries , which you can query at will . According to their statistics , here are the numbers of nonfatal occupational injuries involving days away from work among employees whose occupation is classified as " <URL> " : <URL> I was also interested in the ratio of the number of injuries to the number of thousands of people of each gender employed , again in " <URL> " : <URL> Please <URL> to learn more about how they collect these statistics and what they mean . You can query their dataset yourself if you 're interested in getting numbers specific to one area of science or another .
You will find details on the evaluation process in the Guide for Applicants . The evaluators are experts ( = researchers ) in the field . They will be matched to the proposal according to their profile and to the abstract and keywords . They will for sure be in the general research area , but might not be in the exact same field of the proposal . It is ( at least , officially ) not possible to find out who evaluated the proposal afterwards , but you can find a list of former evaluators here : <URL>
Absolutely , a person who 's not naturally inclined to be a speaker can become a good lecturer and scientist . One of my best professors , actually , was a person with such inclinations . Finding that speaking was not something that he was good at , he turned it into an object of study and began collecting heuristics about what made a good and effective talk . By studiously applying these heuristics to his own teaching and professional communication , he could at least ensure that his talks did not fail on any identifiable dimension . Talks need to do a lot of different things at once : holding attention , identifying key salients , speaking at different levels to different parts of the audience , providing " breadcrumbs " , etc. . Because of this , it often turns out that it 's much less important to do any aspect brilliantly than to make sure that no aspect has been neglected . This professor might not have been a brilliant and exciting comedian , like some who are natural lecturers , but he often gave better lecturers than the naturals . The more natural lecturers were often simply less consistent : following their enjoyment and intuition produced brilliance in some aspects and weaknesses in others , while his stolid application of heuristics ensured an across-the-board solidity of presentation . In short : ultimately , it 's not a matter of talent but of choices for how to invest in acquiring skills .
In my experience , when a conference asks authors to identify reviewers that are conflicted , they want you to identify reviewers who fall into certain categories of people who should not review your work because they have a relationship with you personally that could bias their review . For example : your advisor , your colleagues , your current collaborators , your family members , etc. . They are not asking you to list reviewers who you consider to be your competition . For example , the instructions for <URL> say : As an author , you should list PC and ERC members ( and any others , since others may be asked for outside reviewers ) which you believe have a conflict with you . While particular criteria for making this determination may vary , please apply the following guidelines , identifying a potential reviewer Bob as conflicted if Bob was your co-author or collaborator at some point within the last 2 years Bob is an advisor or advisee of yours Bob is a family member Bob has a non-trivial financial stake in your work ( e.g. , invested in your startup company ) Also please identify institutions with which you are affiliated ; all employees or affiliates of these institutions will also be considered conflicted . If a possible reviewer does not meet the above criteria , please do not identify him/her as conflicted . Doing so could be viewed as an attempt to prevent a qualified , but possibly skeptical reviewer from reviewing your paper . If you nevertheless believe that a reviewer who does not meet the above criteria is conflicted , you may identify the person and send a note to the PC Chair .
The closest example I can think of is <URL> . After publishing several extremely strong results as an undergraduate , Mihai earned an MS in one year and then a PhD in one year , all in computer science at MIT .
My answer is similar to but slightly different from <URL> , but gives more meaningful context about this company 's contribution and why you are thankful to them . I am indebted to [ COMPANY ] and their managers and employees for serving as host and advisers to me for five months as I performed the core of my research . In particular , I would like to thank [ NAME ] , who graciously tutored me about [ TOPICS ] which enabled me to [ CONTRIBUTION ] . I would also like to thank [ NAME ] , [ NAME ] , AND [ NAME ] , who provided feedback and guidance along the way . You should list first and last names for each person , including titles if they have a PhD or are a medical doctor : " John Jones , PhD " or " Dr. John Jones " .
I would go with professor B . If the admissions committee wants to know about your grades , they 'll check your transcript . You want your LORs to give them insight into who you are as a student , what your specific strengths are , etc. . This information is supposed to supplement your transcript , and may even be more important than your grades for certain programs . The fact that professor B 1 ) agreed to write you the letter and 2 ) asked for more details , suggests that he 'll write a good letter for you . The LORs I have read typically do not mention grades , and if a professor knows you well the difference between an A or a B will likely not sway their letter . Edit : I even asked a professor who knew me extremely well to directly address the most obvious weakness in my application , to make sure that would n't raise questions with the committee . You want your application to represent you well , and your grades are only a small part of who you are as a student ( depending on the program you 're applying to ) .
If the student wishes to be self-sufficient in PhD research , then she/he ought to express that the student is competent to do so . There are supervisors who tend to give sufficient freedom for the student to do their research in their own accord . There are some others who feel much more procedural in their approach to build and shape their scholars to their view . Both are actually fine as long as they confirm to the type of their respective students . There are some who require more attention that others , and some others less so . If the student feels that she/he does not require to be spoon fed , then it would be up to the student to show that she/he is capable of producing valuable result by him/herself . The student ought to exhibit active involvement in the research and request for suggestions to the advisor . Here are a few examples . There is this new problem I 've just came across while doing this work . It 's about ... May I look further into this ? or There is an idea I would like to discuss regarding ... Shall I try this one out ? The point is to show how eager you are to be able to do research with lesser support . Of course this might not work all the time ( depending on your advisor ) . This would , however , show how capable you are and is certainly worth a try .
I 'm assuming that you are a graduate student . Simply send a short , polite email expressing that you are interested in his/her research and that you would like to talk about it . If you share a coffee machine , lounge , canteen , etc , you could suggest to talk over coffee . Certainly , say who you are and what you do in the email , and indicate why you are interested . Do n't ramble on in the email . No one has time to read long emails . Showing interest in research and showing that you wo n't be wasting his/her time are main points to observe . Most researchers ( unless they are ridiculously famous and super busy ) would be happy to explain their work and create new avenues for future exploration .
German copyright is very different from UK or US copyright . In German law , copyright always belongs to the author ( s ) , and can not be given away . What you can give away are the various rights of use . The question here thus should be whether your university has a right to use your presentations , potentially even an exclusive right to use them . In the case of computer programs ,  69b of the German copyright law explicitly states that the employer has the exclusive right to use the work . I am not sure whether a lawyer could argue that your presentation is a computer program - maybe he could if it is a tex file :) . Otherwise , as F ' x writes , it depends on your work contract . If there is not an explicit statement in your work contract that the university has the right to use any copyrighted works that you authored during your employment , they will generally not have such rights . In the typical employment contracts at German universities , such statements are not included .
In science , just as in most areas of human activity , most people try to behave ethically but some have skewed views of ethics and some are just plain nasty . Good ways to protect yourself are : Asking somebody you trust who knows about the ethical character of the person you are looking to contact . Putting a draft of your work up online , e.g. , arXiv , that can clearly provide a time-stamp on your work .
It is easy to discharge your ethical obligations here : you treat the unpublished paper like you would any other source , i.e. , citing it carefully and making sure not to rewrite sentences or rehash ideas without explicit attribution ( include direct quotes if necessary , and probably do n't include too many of those without a very compelling reason ) . As you point out , the more serious risk is that you are starting thesis work on a problem on which someone else did a substantial amount of work on ( though you worked on it independently ) and that you may come out with little which is essentially new . You 're right that this is a risk : it 's a risk for all thesis work everywhere . Again my advice is to not treat this any differently than work that has been published : clearly you need to go substantially beyond it , or you do n't have a thesis . Whether the prior work of this other person shows that this is a fruitful area for you to continue in or whether it is evidence that all the good stuff has already been done is one of those tough calls that your thesis advisor should help you with . Finally , of course it is a shame if two people have done good work on something and neither of them publishes it . If it turns out that you do your thesis work on something else , then as a separate project ( or perhaps better : a later project ) , you may want to explore a publication which is a synthesis of your work and this other person 's . Offering him coauthorship would be appropriate , but if he is really out of academia then it becomes a service to the profession for you to publish the work , while accurately conveying its provenance . It 's just that that kind of publication would probably not meet the requirements for a PhD thesis ( and even if it did , it would not be a good launching of your career ) .
If this is a high-profile researcher , they are likely quite overcommitted and may have indeed legitimately accidentally missed connections . When dealing with somebody like this , you also need assume that you need to be the one taking the initiative in contact until you 've have an established working relationship . But it also might be that they are uninterested , and either too polite , conflict averse , or culturally trained such that they are unwilling to express their lack of interest directly . How to tell the difference ? I personally tend to follow the maxim : <URL> After the third failure to connect ( or whatever number you set as your threshold ) , then it does n't really matter whether they 're flaky or evasive : it 's not productive to pursue the connection any further without some sort of positive encouragement from the other side .
One honest way to deal with it is to write something like that it is " attributed by X to Y " , where X is the author who made the unclear citation and Y is the cited paper that does not seem to you to contain this information . That casts some doubt on the attribution , since you are not endorsing it yourself , while giving the reader all the information you have . One possibility is that the information really is there , but it takes some digging to extract it . In that case , flatly saying that it 's not there would be awkward . On the other hand , you do n't want to perpetuate a mistaken or dishonest citation without any warning for the reader . ( Of course , you could simply replace it with a correct citation if you have the relevant expertise to do that , but then you would n't be asking this question . ) If X is still active , you could write and ask whether he/she accidentally cited the wrong paper , or whether you are missing something . That 's the best way to find out what 's behind this citation , since nobody else can really say for sure . If you ca n't contact the author , you can try asking other researchers you know . Sometimes it 's a random error , and sometimes it comes from copying incorrect citations from elsewhere . Occasionally there 's a defensible historical reason for a confusing citation . For example , maybe the original author had an idea and but did n't explain it clearly at all , and later authors expressed it more clearly but cited the original paper ( since it contained the key idea ) .
Counterexamples notwithstanding , the practice certainly raises all sorts of questions about conflicts of interest : is the adviser providing unbiased advice , is the adviser unbiased in their assessment of the academic proficiency of the candidate , is the advisee independent to choose their research direction , etc. . In cases like this , nobody looks good -- people wonder about the judgment of the adviser , they wonder about the actual quality of the candidate if papers are jointly written , and they wonder about what 's going on in the department to let such things happen . As a consequence , people and departments are generally well advised not to let this happen , simply because the perception of a conflict of interest is oftentimes just as bad as the actuality of something improper happening .
It 's safest to ask your collaborators what they would prefer . You ca n't include them as coauthors of an extended abstract without their permission , and they might be upset if you leave them off . ( Even if doing so is standard at this workshop , they might not know that or might disapprove of this standard . ) I 'd guess that they would politely decline authorship of the dissertation abstract if asked , but there 's no way to be sure other than asking . But first I 'd recommend asking your advisor about this issue . I 'm not sure what sort of workshop you mean , which suggests that this may be field-specific . In that case , you need to be aware of the conventions of your field and this workshop in particular . Presumably you are n't the first person to submit a dissertation abstract to this workshop , so this issue must have been dealt with before . If your advisor does n't know offhand , then it 's worth looking through past years to try to find examples . ( As a last resort you could ask the workshop organizers for advice , but you should n't bother them with this unless you have to , and I 'd be very surprised if you had to . ) Then you can write to your other coauthors and say " I 'd like to submit an extended abstract of my dissertation to Workshop X . When people have done that in the past , coauthorship of papers appearing in the dissertation has been handled like this : ... Is it OK with you if we do the same here ? " It 's worth including a copy of your proposed submission , so they can see exactly how they would be mentioned if they wo n't be authors . If you do n't include them as formal authors of the abstract , then of course you should make it very clear that this is merely a summary of work published elsewhere and who the authors of those papers are .
Let me explain my comment as an answer . The admission process works in two different ways : Formal enrolment and informal enrolment Formal You apply through university web link and select the research areas or supervisor . Then probably you communicate with the chosen supervisor through email ( s ) . If things go well then you might get an interview call or direct admit . Informal You approach the supervisor first . Discussions or interviews may go on . If everything is alright , you supervisor would speak with the admission committee for your official admit . In both these types of cases your supervisor recommends for the admission . However , it is the decision of the admission committee to make the final call . Note : I have skipped the recommendation letters related points which is a major part in both these types of enrolment . Moreover , each University has their own set of rules . It is wise to go through the same .
Reviewers can only recommend acceptance or rejection ( or a major or minor revision ) . It 's the editor 's responsibility to weigh the reviews , along with the manuscript , and decide . After all , you will often have multiple reviewers . And they will usually not even know who else is reviewing a given manuscript . So how else could you decide what to do with a manuscript where two reviewers recommend a major revision , while the third recommends rejection ?
end question
start question
Is it ethical for a lecturer to mis-indicate exam study material ?
I will address the final question you ask -- if it 's fair for instructors to write an exam but point to other material to study . The primary ethical issue here is the question of intent : why did the instructor tell you to review the particular material . If this was an intentional effort to mislead students , and to feed them " false " information in order to catch them unprepared , I would say that it is somewhat unethical . ( In other words , if you were told you would n't be responsible for something on the exam when the instructor knew it would be , that 's wrong . ) However , if the instructor gave " recommendations " -- along the lines of " it might be good to know X , Y , and Z " -- then there 's really nothing wrong with that . Telling you exactly what to do defeats the purpose of a university education , which is to learn how to learn ! Ultimately , the instructor should not be spoonfeeding you information which you then regurgitate on the final exam . And I would further argue that if all you 're doing is memorizing information , as you suggest , then you 're also not really accomplishing much , since such information is very likely to be " dumped " from memory once the semester is over .
In <URL> they explain the subject in detail In general regarding honorary academic titles for non-employees it is written : To recognise the association , the College may confer an honorary academic title on a non-employee during the period of their association ... The title to be conferred will depend on the level of distinction and qualification of the candidate . And specifically with regard to " honorary lecturer " : Honorary Lecturer : Must continue in teaching , research or joint industry/academic activity to an appropriately high level
I think this is too broad a question to have a really good answer , but I think the most generic one is : not really . If your study abroad experience could provide some unique opportunity to deepen your knowledge of the field , then that might get some real consideration . Otherwise , it probably wo n't be seen that differently from other classes , and in some cases viewed more skeptically if they were at a program whose reputation is less established . EDIT : In particular , to address the last sentence , living abroad will count for extremely little . As one counterexample , I will mention that when I applied for grad school , one graduate director explicitly mentioned my study abroad experience . However , I think this is the sort of exception that proves the rule : I went to a very <URL> specific to my field ; I was going to a small liberal arts institution , so the study abroad program actually had a stronger reputation , probably ; and I took a very ambitious schedule and he mentioned the specific classes I had taken , not the generic fact that I had gone . My point is , study abroad can mean many things . Use your good sense ( or talk to mentors ) about how different ones can affect your graduate school applications .
I do not see that sharing your knowledge would in any way be a problem per se . What could become a problem is if you also share copyright-protected materials . It is virtually impossible to list what might or might not be such materials but to take other persons presentations , images , data and then sharing it would be clearly illegal ( and unethical ) unless they are provided with a " license " stating they are free . If you take the knowledge you gather and then put it together somehow ( including making your own presentations on your own material ) , it should not be such a problem . In any circumstance where you want to use other peoples materials , it is always best to ask for permission . Not only does it save you possible future problems , you may find friends in the process . Watch out for materials published by commercial interests and use open source material ( but do give credit to those who made it - attribution is required by licenses like <URL> and it is also a nice gesture to acknowledge the work and time by the original authors ) . Much material is given out for public ( but not commercial ) use . A final advise , attach an open source license to your materials . I am not fully aware what licenses may apply but am sure many has good suggestions for you ( check Academia.sx or ask another question on that ) . So to sum up . I think it is a nice idea and perfectly fine , but be aware that you must be 100 % sure you do not publish materials so that you break copyrights or abuse licenses ( protect the open source practises ) .
As was mentioned in the comments , one possibility is that the editors are waiting for a better time to publish the paper , perhaps as part of a special issue or to highlight the paper on its cover . Another possibility is that the authors have not fulfilled some requirements for publication like signing a copyright transfer form or paying the page charges . Or perhaps there are some problematic issues about the paper . Maybe the topic is controversial and some members of the board do n't want it published , or perhaps the editors suspect some unethical publication practice . ( If it is this last reason , then perhaps it would be impolite to ask the authors about it . )
You will almost certainly have to recruit study participants yourself . As others have suggested , speak with your advisor to out whether there are any participant pools he 's used in the past . If you find others that he has n't used before it 's a good idea to make sure he 's OK with the pool before you dive in , so to speak . Note that , in some fields , the pool of participants can be a significant limiting factor to the generalizability of the study results . Think very carefully about exclusionary criterion before settling on something . Note also that your IRB may require you to provide justification for exclusion/inclusion of certain populations ( i.e. , children , pregnant women , drug users ) . Try to make sure your population sample is as inclusive as possible .
What you describe is , in my opinion , horribly unethical ! Yes , past performance is often a predictor of present performance , but there are so many other factors involved as well . What if a student did poorly before because of any number of reasons , but have since stepped up their work , caught up , and really mastered the material ? Or what if the student has been focusing heavily on this subject and has consequently fared more poorly in another subject ? It is manifestly stupid and counter to the entire notion of education to ignore good work by a student in one location simply because the student did bad work in another course or another time . Ethical violations are a different matter -- it is reasonable to be suspicious of a student with a history of cheating -- but grading a student poorly for having the audacity to exceed expectations is a rank betrayal of the most basic responsibilities of an educator .
The terminology for longitudinal research designs differs somewhat between disciplines . However , to my knowledge most discipline refer to a " cohort " as an entity that can be distinguished by a certain event as for example the year of birth or graduation from high school . The general idea is that there is an observable variable for the cohort membership and that individuals from the same " cohort " have something in common , e.g. the risk to die from lung cancer due to a common time of exposure . Thus , a " cohort study " looks at one cohort or compares different cohorts . In most cases , cohort studies use longitudinal research designs , but there are also cross-sectional cohort studies . The use of the term " panel study " seems to me more vague but a " panel study " is in most cases a longitudinal study which has at least observations from two points in time . Panel studies do not need to focus on cohorts . Hence , cohort and panel studies both look specifically at the timing of certain events and variables . For further information you could for example have a look at the following articles in the International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences : Mason , W.M. and Wolfinger , N.H. 2001 : Cohort Analysis , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 2189-2194 . Duncan , G.J. 2001 : Panel Surveys : Uses and Applications , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 11009-11015 .
Why not both ? If you are n't explicitly a mathematician but there is a lot of math used as a tool in your field to solve problems ( this is often the case with my field ) , it is understood that some people are stronger in the math than others . The whole point of having a field where people of different educational backgrounds work together is that you do n't have to be an expert at every sub-skill and sub-task - you can have your own unique strengths without starting over at the fundamentals for every subject in play . A strategy that I 've found works very well is read some literature to see what techniques are used by others in their related research . If a technique comes up a few times ( like , say , applying Dynamic Time Warping to analyze a time series ) , read into that bit to get a better high-level understanding of it - how it is used , it 's strength and weakness , when it 's not appropriate , etc. . At this point you may find that the technique just is n't relevant to your research - so you can probably skip it for now and move on . Sure , you do n't understand it from top to bottom - but you just do n't have time to learn everything in infinite detail ! However , what if the technique seems really useful ? Well , some people do n't bother to understand it at all and just blindly apply it , because well other researchers have so it 's probably fine . I 'm not at all fond of this , and I would humbly suggest it leads to bad science , unreliable findings , and missed opportunities . So if a technique seems useful to you , learn some more about it . Try to delve a little more deeply and find out just what the technique seems to actually do . What do some of the variables mean ? How is the calculation performed overall - how does it behave based on some inputs compared to others , and why ? Again , you probably have limited time , so do n't feel you have to prove everything from first principles . Next , you still have some time to advance your understanding of the fundamentals . So especially as you read through the literature and useful techniques , what area is really hard for you ? Is probability stumping you , or calculus , or dynamic programming , or are the notations and implicit variable meanings alien to you ? Reserve a little of your time - perhaps a few hours a week at most - to strengthen yourself on the most fundamental issues . Perform a trivial calculation by hand , or read a textbook explanation of the notations used . I 've found the biggest pitfall is thinking you have to understand everything from square one right at the very beginning , and I have to fight the tendency to get sucked in to minutiae . But then often as little as a few days pass and suddenly I realize I have a far better understanding of something than I thought I did , and it was n't really as hard as it seemed at first . Now this works for me , and for plenty of other people I know , but I can not say it will be the best for you , in your field , with your personality and own unique traits and talents . As always YMMV - find what works best for you !
If I cared enough about a person to write a letter of recommendation , I would be pleased to think that one day after I am gone that the person could use my letter for their benefit . You will possibly benefit from this recommendation and possibly someone else will suffer if you are selected based upon the recommendation ; however , competition is not generally considered unethical . There are no legal questions raised that I can imagine . It seems unconventional , but not extreme . My feelings are that it would be ethical to use the letter .
First , you need to decide if you find the plagiarism charges credible . Assuming that you do ( the material at the link you include certainly looks damning ) , then you certainly should not give any citation to the plagiarists . But that still leaves a dilemma : if you ca n't read the language of the original work , can you honestly cite it ? To think about how to solve this , let 's return to the principles of what a citation actually accomplishes : A citation justifies an assertion in your work A citation gives appropriate credit to the related and supporting intellectual work of others A citation gives readers links to follow in learning more about the subject . If this reference has been helpful to you , then the original author deserves citation on the basis of purpose # 2 . That does not , however , support purpose # 1 or # 3 if neither you nor most of your readers can read the language . The ideal solution would be if the original author has material with similar content , but written in English , which you can cite instead . Switching citations like that still fulfills all the criteria . What if there is no appropriate source in English by the original author ? If you can verify that the original work really does contain the parts that you find useful ( e.g. , via online translation or a friend who speaks the language ) , then cite the untranslated original , fulfilling purpose # 1 and # 2 . Then , since this is textbook-level background material , there should also exist some non-plagiarized English works that are appropriate background to cite : find them , and add them in as well , strengthening purpose # 1 and fulfilling # 3 .
No . Unpublished work is unpublished . It 's almost as if it does n't exist . Given that it is your work , there is no case of plagiarism . I do n't even think you need to cite yourself -- what would you actually be citing ? Indeed , how would you prove that you plagiarised yourself ? If your unpublished work has been circulated among other authors and has been cited by them , maybe you can cite it too . But that seems a bit odd .
I was recently accepted to a MS program that is different from my undergrad and graduate training . In my personal statement I tried to relate my experience to the field I was pursuing . I had field research experience in public health , but I was applying for a MS in biology . I still used my research experience , but I focused on the general research skills that I developed , things that would be useful in the lab . I mentioned things that are universal to all research . I think if you convey passion and direction for the new field , you 'll be alright . It can be an advantage too . Think of ways you can incorporate your previous field if possible . If not , show them your maturity and passion . It seems like admissions committees can tell who is going through the motions and who is genuine . Make your voice heard .
Sure it is acceptable for a Lecturer to refuse to do this , given that it is n't a condition of the Lecturer 's being hired that they agree to publicly posting the information , nor is doing so strictly required for the lecturer to do the other parts of the job that are required . My own view is that it 'd be crazy not to make your information publicly available , since there 's no harm in doing so , but much harm in terms of lost opportunities from not doing it . Still , there 's no legal or even moral prohibition against making poor career choices .
Students have lots of reasons for taking courses and I do n't think I want to be in the business of telling students that there are right and wrong reasons to take a class . I certainly think it 's a good idea for prospective PhD students to think about who might be good letter writers early on in their program and to make sure they work with some of them -- not doing so can make the academic job market very difficult . I do n't see this as being substantively different . If you take the class , do well , and then ask for a letter , you might get a good one . Or you might not . So I 'd say go ahead . That said , there is something very mercenary about the way you have phrased your question that makes me skeptical . Do you really think that working with faculty would n't teach you anything ? If it 's true that the only reason you want to take a class is because of the letter you might get , something seems off . Maybe your interests are different enough from the professor 's that I 'm skeptical that this person would be such a great letter writer for what you want to do . Being able to excel in a Masters program means not resenting the idea that you may have to learn from professors when you could " just read the book . " I think it 's OK to take a class for a recommendation but you should use this as opportunity to learn something you are passionate about in ways you could not with just the textbook . Talk to the professor . Let them know you are an advanced and passionate student . Get feedback on your work . Go beyond what is just in the book . If you do that , you will get more than you would otherwise . In the process , you will also earn a much stronger letter . If you ca n't get over that hump , I suspect that your recommendations -- and your experience in grad school -- will underwhelm .
The Cambridge guide to English usage by Pam Peters has a long discussion on the usage of the apostrophe in the case of plural nouns . For what concerns your example , under the section Apostrophes , it says : Single letter in lower case still usually mark the plural with apostrophes , as in Dot the i 's and cross the t 's The purpose is that of highlighting that you have the plural of a word composed of a single letter . However , under the section Letters as words there is the following remark : Yet even the apostrophe is unnecessary if italics are used and the plural s itself is in roman . Though the above remark is probably meant for ordinary text , in mathematics variables are commonly typeset in italics , and I think that the above remark can be applied as well . According to the above , I 'd say that the apostrophes in your first example can not be considered wrong , but they are actually unnecessary . In LaTeX , I 'd then write your first example as Instead , in the past tense of your second example the apostrophe marks the elision of the letter e , and in this case it is required : xored - > xor 'd .
As editor I would not accept this in a publication . If it is published it should be referenced . Yes , it bumps the references for the authors and yes , bad science may attract a fair amount of citations for all the right ? / wrong ? reasons . But , it is not up to the authors to decide how referencing should be made , journals have guidelines that should be followed . Having the citation properly referenced makes it easier for others to find the article and see it for themselves . Furthermore , from another point of view the statement that something is " unscientific " is not appropriate either . It is an opinion . The cited paper can be unscientific but the academic way to show this is not to just say it but to prove it . Your quote is a specific case , of which I know nothing , so the reply concerns the general case but I would react if I saw something like that in a paper I edit and I would ask the authors to stick to facts . One last point is that if a paper is really bad , then it should be considered for retraction . That is how scientifically extremely poor , bordering on dangerous , papers are handled .
You may use the books available in which some preparation exams ( sample tests and past tests ) are published and you can study those exams and sample tests . Some of these books and preparation materials are available in <URL> page on <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . If you are seeking for free online sample exams and studying materials , there are some preparation materials for exam available in different websites over the net , which you can find by a <URL> .
This would be a problem if you used GPL-licensed piece of software and decided to release your derived program in a GPL-incompatible way . Other than this , you should be fine . The point of GPL is that if you improve the source code , then your improvements ( in case you want to make them public ) must also be licensed under GPL . Certainly GPL does not " infect " your publications - you can e.g. cite a piece of code released under GPL , without any problems . ( And you can write your paper on a Linux machine , thus running GPL ' ed OS :-) )
The issue is highly field-dependent . In computer science , it 's probably still considered highly unethical , but in my field -- chemical engineering , where papers are not normally " published " -- presenting the same talk in multiple venues is not normally considered a problem . Other fields lie somewhere in between . I think that , regardless of the ethical dilemma , the issue is that the more likely you are to have overlap between the two audiences who will hear your talk , the less you want to give the same talk -- even if it 's ethical to do so . At the very least , you should have enough new material in the later talk that it 's worth the audience 's time to hear the second version if they 've already heard it at the first conference .
end question
start question
How does research contribute to teaching , and vice versa ?
Personally , I struggle coming up with good teaching materials ( lecture notes , homework questions , et cetera ) . I had lots of teachers that were either way too abstract where abstraction was n't necessary , or gave really wacky examples that did n't have much basis in real life , and I silently vowed not to do that to my own students . One way that I 've found to present real-life and relevant material is to draw upon my research . For example , if I 'm lecturing about a particular biological system that I study , I might walk the class through a particular experiment that I ran to test an aspect of the system . I find that students feel these lectures are the most interesting , and they seem to grasp the material better than if I gave a " standard " lecture . On the flip side , I always get 1-2 questions per semester where I do n't know the answer , and it turns out no one else in my field does either . As such , the questions I get while teaching are a source of research questions that I may attempt to answer . If I actually think the question can be answered , I almost always invite the student or students who posed the question to help me with the research , which is also another way teaching impacts research ( i.e. , I expose more people to what research is , and I get help doing it ) .
When I get an invitation to contribute a book chapter ( or conference paper in an invited session ) , I usually ask myself the following questions : Can I have a reasonable contribution ready for the proposed submission deadline ? Is the venue I am invited to a good fit and does it provide the best possible visibility for my contribution ? Do I want to invite the person inviting me to similar occasions in the future ? Ideally , you should be able to answer at least questions 1 and 2 with " yes " before accepting the invitation . If your answer to question 2 would be " no " , it may still be wise to accept the invitation in view of question 3 . For this type of invitations , I would try to find a smaller contribution which fits the visibility of the proposed publication venue . In a book chapter , for example a summarizing synthesis of some of your previous results might be appropriate .
First , check if your university has rules/policies/guidelines in place . If so , follow them . Otherwise , use your university name as affiliation . No need to ask them . ( Trust me , they are much more worried about people forgetting to use the affiliation , than the other way around ! )
I find that a good way ( for me ) to get excited about my research is to work with some inexperienced research students - high school and undergraduate students . Mentoring these students reminds me of the things that excited me about research when I first started : mainly , that we can come up with some problem that we think is interesting , that has n't previously been solved , and then go ahead and solve it . I still think that is so cool , and seeing that reaction in my students reminds me all over again :) Also , I get to feel like an expert in this scenario , which helps makes me more excited about my work . Generally , I find that spending time with others who are passionate and excited encourages those feelings in me , too .
People have a lot to read in academia as is . Sending out a document and asking for feedback is a strenuous exercise for all involved parties . You may want to take into consideration that some of your colleagues will also simply not want to willingly participate with their opinion . Instead , a useful compromise is the use of a presentation . Prepare one whenever you see fit and advertise to your faculty by email what it is you 're presenting , why you 're presenting , and explain that you 're specifically looking for feedback on ' X ' ; ' X ' being the methodology applied , noticeable gaps in literature , etc. . In this manner , you practice your presentation skills , you take only 10 minutes or so of your colleagues ' time , you strengthen relationships amongst your peers , and you 're immediately available for questions . The benefits of this approach are many , and I think you 'll be able to find even more than the ones I 've just listed . I hope that this was helpful to you .
This will heavily depend on the specific country you are talking about . We have a so-called <URL> that aims at encouraging " entrepreneurship and innovation by identifying , supporting and providing guidance for potential high-tech startups and spin-off companies originating at TU/e . " Specifically , they guide researchers along the entire process : from checking whether the idea can be patented to actually establishing a startup / spin-off company . With respect to copyright : lion 's share of our research is being published so there can be no problems for companies to use the ideas presented in scientific papers . Using unpublished results might be more tricky but I can imagine that the university will agree to formally keep copyright and allow the company to benefit from it under some restricted conditions .
It 's hard to address the field of video games specifically , since I was n't actually aware you could do a PhD in that . But broadly speaking , there is some ambiguity with citing books as authoritative sources in professional research since they are n't peer reviewed the way a journal article is . I would look for a few things : Is it canon ? In my own field of economics books are frequently cited , but they 're often old and seminal . Keynes ' General Theory , Smith 's Wealth of Nations , and so on . They have essentially been de facto peer reviewed over the course of time . Did , I do n't know , <URL> write a book ? Is the author peer reviewed ? Citing a book by an established academic may lend even their non-peer reviewed work sufficient credibility . Is the book based on peer reviewed work ? It 's not unusual for a journal article to be expanded into a book , or even in some cases for a portion of a book to turn into a journal article . This is true of the General Theory , and more recently Thomas Piketty 's Capital . Obviously you should cite the peer reviewed work instead if possible , but it would still help the case of the book portions . Is the author prominent in the field ? If you want to cite , for example , George Akerlof 's 2015 book in your research , the fact that he 's a famous economist with a Nobel prize lends it credibility . The last point may be particularly relevant for the field of video games , where I suspect the first three will be harder to meet . Unless there 's a more robust peer-reviewed network of video game journals than I 'm aware of , which is certainly possible . You say this person has some experience in the field , but it 's not clear to me that amounts to " prominent " . Was he a lead designer ? Is he a recognized expert on the topic of relevance ? If he 's only played a normal contributing role as a member of teams doing these things , I 'm leaning toward skepticism . The bottom line : since books are n't peer-reviewed , the credibility of the work needs to be firmly established in some other way . And as @ff524 said in her answer , it 's also going to depend on just how central this source is to your argument or results . If it 's just background rather than a central supporting piece , you can relax these requirements . The more central it is , the higher the bar should become .
Any of the scenarios you describe can happen , in practice . ( I am in the United States ; this may differ in other countries . ) It depends on the student 's interests and abilities , the advisor 's interests and advising style , how broad advisor 's interests are , whether the advisor has funding for a particular project and needs a student to work on that problem , and many other factors . All three have happened within my own research group . ( Another possibility that happened in my research group that you have n't mentioned : student initiates a collaboration with another researcher , who proposes a topic , and involves the advisor in the project as well . ) Actually , the scenarios you describe are not discrete scenarios , but a spectrum from " most student-driven " to " most advisor-driven . " Some points on the spectrum include : Student enters grad school with a topic in mind that 's judged acceptable by advisor , and proceeds with that topic . Student enters grad school with a topic in mind , that evolves and changes following advice from advisor . Student enters grad school with a general idea and , together with guidance from advisor and extensive reading of literature , shapes it into a topic . Student enters grad school without idea , advisor suggests general direction , and upon extensive reading and with guidance from advisor , student shapes it into a topic . Advisor hands student idea , and student proceeds to execute idea . Of course , this is a PhD , so as student works on the topic , the student 's mastery of the specific research will most probably come to exceed the advisor 's , even though advisor originally proposed the idea . Other scenarios include : student enters grad school with idea in mind and then changes directions completely in middle , student enters grad school with idea and changes advisors in middle but keeps idea , and many more . .
I came across the following study : T McElroy , L Mosteller The influence of circadian type , time of day and class difficulty on students ' grades . <URL> In the conclusions of the work , they mention that the students have a best performance if their optimal time-of-day ( i.e. , if they are monrningness type or eveniningness type ) coincide with the class schedule . By contrast the classes that require less cognitive functioning are less sensitive to the advantage and disadvantage of optimal and non-optimal time-of-day .
Joint appointments across different departments at a university are not that unusual , and at many schools are in fact quite common . However , such cross-appointments tend to be within " branches " : a scientist might be cross-appointed in multiple science and engineering departments , but not likely in both a science department and a humanities department . So it 's unlikely that you 'd get an appointment in both mathematics and African-American studies . However , that does n't mean that you would n't be able to teach both those subjects . You might be able to convince a university to let you offer an elective seminar course in addition to your " primary " teaching in mathematics . However , this is by no means guaranteed .
There is a strong need for learning research methodologies , and many postgraduate research courses require as prerequisite research methodology evidence . The good news is that many institutions do offer specific courses in research methods ; the better news is that many offer distance learning and there even some MOOC/Open learning options available . Below are some examples that I 'm aware of ( I 'm sure there are many others ) : <URL> ( Open ) <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( Open ) <URL> There are also a <URL>
You should certainly cite paper A in any case . One way this is commonly handled : state your Lemma B. 1 and give the complete proof . At the beginning of the proof , write something like " This closely follows the proof of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] . " Now your paper is self-contained and you have given appropriate credit . It is fine if your proof is similar in structure to theirs ; in some ways this is better , because a reader who looks at both will more easily be able to see the similarities and differences . But do not simply copy and paste their proof and change the necessary words . Your proof should be your words , even if it is from their ideas . Or , state your Lemma B. 1 , but instead of giving a complete proof , say " The proof is very similar to that of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] " . This saves space but will be more annoying to the reader , who in order to check your result will have to find the paper [ A ] and read through the proof , adapting it to prove B. 1 instead of A. 1 . ( The referee may be similarly annoyed . ) Some people would omit the statement of Lemma B. 1 altogether , and when they need to use it , would say " By a slight modification of the proof of Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] , we have blah blah blah ... " . This is even more annoying . Worst of all is to just say " By Lemma A. 1 from [ A ] , we have blah blah blah " where Lemma A. 1 claims something different from ( and not obviously implying ) the statement you want .
Over the course of a long career in teaching , the nature of your instruction will necessarily need to change as both our scientific understanding of the world and our society change . This is especially true for undergraduate and graduate instruction , where the knowledge is more specialized and changes more quickly , but I would argue it is also true for much of one 's earlier schooling as well . To be a good instructor , then , I think that one absolutely must keep up with the evolving nature of one 's field . But does that require doing research ? I do n't think so ( except , of course , for advising graduate students who are required to do research ) . Remaining involved in research is definitely one of the easiest ways to keep up with a field , but it 's not a panacea either : research is typically extremely focused and narrow , and being up to date in one 's particular research sub-field does not necessarily mean you will learn about everything relevant to instructing your students in a course that is only related in the more general sense ( e.g. , a platinum electrocatalyst researcher teaching introductory organic chemistry ) . One can consume information about research without producing it oneself , however , and many other forms of professional education are also available . Bottom line : doing research is a great way of keeping up with your field , but not necessarily sufficient and not necessarily the only way .
Should I make this medical condition known in my research/personal statement ? I fear the reader might assume that I am not as " able " as completely healthy candidates . Or perhaps there is no benefits at all to bringing this up ? If so , how should I put it to avoid sounding like I am making excuses or whining ? If you can frame this medical condition as a situation you have learned to work through and around , then yes you can talk about it . It makes you sound like you are able to adapt to difficult circumstances . You are under no requirement to bring it up , and , at least in the US , if you do n't bring it up , then you can not legally be judged based on it . However , if the condition reasonably or seriously will interfere with the work you are planning to do , then you need to disclose it eventually , although perhaps only after you are accepted and only to your research adviser . Sleepiness is one thing , but what about <URL> ? A narcoleptic might be a safety hazard in a synthetic chemistry lab for example .
At my university , RAs are paid for 20 hours of nominal work a week , usually through grant funds , to work on a research proejct . TAs are paid for 10 hours per week per course with departmental or university funds to assist the professor of a course . Their duties may include : teaching so-called recitation sections of the course where the week 's lecture materials might be reviewed or homework questions discussed or clarified , holding office hours where students can come to ask questions about material they do not understand or get guidance on homework , and marking homework problem sets . TAships generally do not involve doing research with a prof , though students with a TAship may transition to an RA with a professor if they sufficiently impress one during their TAship . The level of pay and benefits is the same ( per hour ) at my university . Both TAs and RAs are generally restricted to 20 hour per week of nominal work , and health insurance benefits do n't kick in until they reach that level .
You 've chosen a journal that looks like it is well suited to your background and topics . By itself , the length of your paper is not related to whether it is important or publishable . There are three things you can do to test whether your potential topics/papers are worth writing and submitting . First , read many articles in this journal , similar journals , and also conferences . You are n't just looking for articles on the same topic or technique as yours . Instead , you are learning about what constitutes a good research paper in your field . Based on your reading , write a detailed outline of your proposed paper ( s ) , and also an abstract . The second thing you can do is to write a version of your paper ( s ) as a " Working Paper " and then circulate them to peers or colleagues for feedback . You can post this to <URL> and post links on social media or mailing lists to get broader feedback . This approach has two advantages . You sometimes only know the value of a research paper after you finish writing it . And you 'll get the most useful feedback from people when they have a finished paper in their hands , as opposed to reacting to a concept . The third thing you can do , building on the previous , is to submit a paper or two ( each revised based on earlier feedback ) to a journal or conference , and then learn from reviewer comments if they reject you .
You 'd have to ask him to know for sure , but I would expect " full-time teaching faculty " to refer to full-time faculty whose duties include a substantial amount of teaching . It would exclude adjunct professors and other part-time faculty , and would also exclude faculty who never or rarely teach . I expect that very few college or university faculty positions literally involve teaching " full-time " .
As a TT at a small liberal arts college let me just say that to gain tenure I have to do both . In my field this amounts to having five or six new articles or a book before tenure . There is a very large spectrum of liberal arts colleges and the top end ( figure top 100 ) all claim that research active professors are better able to teach up to date content in their field and to better demonstrate to their students why the field is exciting and worth studying . ( By ` all ' I mean I do not know of a counter example . ) At the very top end of the liberal arts spectrum you have schools that give their professors R1 teaching loads and more funding . The only thing they would lack are the graduate students . Sure at the lower end of the spectrum are places that only expect teaching . Then there are the community colleges which openly admit they are teaching only institutions but they acknowledge that their mission is distinct . Another section of schools I 'd suggest you could take a look at are the second tier state schools , places like CSU Pamona , or University of Central Florida . These are not flagships and focus more on teaching than R1s but you still have to be research active to get tenure . Next time you go to a conference , chat up those folks who seem to be pre-tenure and ask them what their institutions demand . The US is a country with other 4000 colleges and universities . They do not form a linear order from liberal arts colleges to R1 universities . So as always , the situation is more complex than you might think at first .
Normally , the problem is the other way round . For instance , one phenomenon is that I often found with male students is that they override/overrule/overtalk female ones . If that happens more than sporadically , I interrupt them and tell them to let the other student speak out ( of course this cuts both ways ) . I mention this as a concrete example for a trigger/action based approach that works well to reduce imbalance . With this , I get good participation from the whole group . You talk about " soft spots " . Beware , this signals danger . Your student 's gender should be strictly taboo for how you deal with them . It is absolutely essential that all your students feel equally respected . Is it that you give more time to females ? Then actively allocate more time to males . Is it that you encourage females more ? Balance this by introducing some competitive element ( such as voting on responses , competitive problem solving ) ; male students tend to like that ( of course , I am generalising , it needs playing by ear ) . Intersperse your presentations with adventurous anecdotes of topic-relevant scientists . Generally : make a point of addressing more of the neglected students . BTW , this does not only hold for gender , but also for preference by activity or ability . Activate less able , or less active students . If you do that well , you earned your badge as teacher . Under no circumstance treat your teaching as a dating opportunity . It is not . Getting a jealous girlfriend might be an idea to help getting things under control - if you can not do it yourself , it may be the way to delegate that job to her ( and I am not yet entirely sure whether I am joking here ) .
TLDR : Well , looks like I wrote a pretty long answer ! I do n't really see how I can summarize it in a single sentence , sorry ... You 'll just have to read the whole thing . :-) You are worried about being the bearer of bad news and upsetting your friend , which is very noble , but it 's not clear to me that that 's in fact the right way to view the situation . From your description it sounds like both you and your friend made notable and unique contributions : he discovered the result and was the first to prove it , and you found a much simpler proof ( something that 's often not hard to do when you know what you 're trying to prove but are n't encumbered by the baggage of all the dead ends the original discoverer of the result had to travel to get to his complicated proof ) . Your achievement does not necessarily devalue his , and might actually increase its value , in which case he should be happy to hear the news . Let 's examine the possibilities for how your discovery can affect your friend : Maybe your new proof is so simple that it completely trivializes the result , making it unpublishable or at best a lemma that can only be published as part of a larger paper with additional results . Well , in that case your friend would be right to be disappointed that the result he thought he so cleverly proved turned out to be trivial . This is the only possibility I can think of where your discovery would really be bad news . Alternatively , your new proof might be such that it makes the result seem even cooler , since while the result was and remains publishable either way , the original proof was clumsy and inelegant , which would have made for a long and uninteresting paper that not many people would enjoy reading , whereas the new proof opens up a new perspective or adds a new kind of argument that makes the result itself seem more interesting and would make for a much more interesting and elegant paper . In that case your friend should be happy , except that : Your friend might worry that your discovery would entitle you to be a coauthor of the paper . Perhaps he was looking forward to publishing his own solely authored paper , where he would completely " own " everything . Well , it makes sense that the idea of having to add you as a coauthor might come as a bit of a shock to him and take some getting used to . However , if he were more experienced he would realize that having a coauthor has many advantages ; the value of having written a paper with a coauthor is not half of the value of a solely authored paper -- it is more than that , since the combined value of both coauthors ' contributions often makes for a paper that 's worth much more than the sum of its parts . This could very well be the case here , as I noted above . Taking this into account , in this scenario your friend should still be happy , although it might not be obvious to him that that 's the case , and it 's an interesting question how to make him see that . If he were to consult with his advisor , I 'm sure that would help . Finally , there is the delicate matter of your friend 's ego . It may be that while from a professional point of view the news you would deliver him about the simplification of his proof is good , it would still hurt his ego and make him feel like he is stupid or inadequate for not having found the simplified proof himself . This is another example where having some experience can help soften the blow . The truth is , in math each of us has some unique skills and abilities , and one person 's skills and abilities often complement those of another person such that the second person is able to see things that the first person did n't , even if they 've been thinking about the problem for much longer . This works both ways , and many of us have had experiences where others have found simplifications of our proofs or points of view , and conversely we have done the same to others . So , over time we learn that being outdone by someone does n't mean we 're stupid and the other person is a genius , or even more clever than we are . Another way of saying this is that comparing mathematicians by mathematical ability is n't a linear order relation : you can not order all mathematicians in a line such that if A stands to the right of B then A is a better mathematician than B. I hope your friend will be able to see that . ( It may be a bad idea for you to try to explain it to him yourself though ; that might come across as condescending . ) Now , to conclude let me talk about the authorship of the paper , since I keep referring to you as a coauthor . The reason is that it seems clear to me that with the simplification you found you have earned authorship of the paper . Again , it 's very noble of you to dismiss this as unnecessary , but you wo n't actually make your friend feel better by giving up authorship , since if you do that he would only feel like a fraud who writes a paper with someone else 's proof . A joint paper would give the credit where it belongs : with both of you , each having made an import
end question
start question
Citations : What do I do when the article writer 's name is the same as mine ?
If it 's just the first name , cite the work as being authored by a mononymic person . Author names in text are virtually always ( a ) full name , ( b ) initials + last name , or ( c ) just last name . The consistent use of a first name only , along with an entry in the works cited whose author has that name and that name alone , will make it clear that you are a different person ( especially if you actually do quote yourself and have a separate entry , in Last , First format with your works ) . If you still feel that there is the possibility for confusion , upon first mention of the author , insert a footnote or parenthetical statement to clarify the distinction .
First of all , always be consistent . Whatever you decide , that is what you will always have to use . Considering the first point , might be better to strive and use your real name as it is with the non-english characters . You will have less problems in the future to prove your authorship in case questions rise . Complain to systems who do not accept your non-english characters ...
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
The first two kinds of questions should be asked in the course 's public discussion area so that the answers will benefit all students . Since you 've used " all the other tools " in the course , perhaps you 've done that . I suggest a concerned phone call to the department chair . If the professor is not present in the course at all , ask , " Is Dr. X OK ? He has n't been in the course in several weeks . " If he 's around , but ignoring you , ask , " Do you know whether I 've somehow offended Dr. X ? He has n't answered any of my questions in several weeks . " The point is to give the chair a chance to make corrections without having said anything like " ignoring me . " If it has already been several weeks , I 'd suggest doing this very soon . Be as specific as possible about dates when the instructor stopped responding , how other work such as quizzes is handled , etc. .
This is not a standard , but these are some considerations that have helped me : If I give code for students I take special care to be consistent ( I am not always successful ) . Students tend to find inconsistencies and think there must be a reason for that and start looking for reasons where none exist . I also consider the purpose of the snippet : is it an example of best practice or an illustration of how such code works . In the former case I would be less verbose with my comments then in the latter case . Sometimes it helps to have a list of trivial tricks separate from the example code . <URL> is an example I have used . This can be an alternative to commenting tricks in your code that are not central to the point you want to make with that example .
A serious editor makes a decision based on the reports from the reviewers along with their own critical view of both the manuscript and the reviews . This means that both reviewers may not have made the official recommendation of reject , it sometimes happens reviewers give a " major revision " officially while in their confidential comment to the editor they provide their reasoning for providing that recommendation instead of a reject , which they think would be equally appropriate . Hence there is communication " behind the scenes " that is not visible to the author ( s ) . It is also possible that an editor makes a decision for a reject based on reviews that recommend otherwise . In such cases the grounds may , for example , be that the editor sees that the revisions will be too complex to fit the time frame of a regular " major revision " . Or , that there is some formal issue that reviewers will be unable to detect . The latter should , however , not be very common since such issues , including suitability to the journal , should be weeded out at the time of submission , not after review ( thereby wasting reviewers valuable time ) . In the quote you provide , it seems as if both reviewers have found grounds for rejecting the paper . It is probably not very common that an editor changes such overwhelming recommendations ( although it can happen ) . The fact that reviewers provide comments is not in any way unusual . Any serious reviewer knows that part of reviewing is to provide feedback on what is thought should be revised . Hence there is normally no major difference between reviews resulting in a recommendation for " reject " than those resulting in , say , " major revision " . Any first round review that is returned without any comments and providing either an " accept " or a " reject " will , in my opinion as editor , be signalling a reviewer not willing to do the job and in fact useless for the process ( manuscripts so good that they can be accepted without any action are very rare indeed ) .
There are definitely cases in which it would stand out as strange or inappropriate . You should be careful in cases of a rivalry , since that may be viewed as a significant statement even if you meant nothing by it . ( I 'm thinking of Harvard vs. Yale or Illinois vs. Iowa . Athletic rivalries are particularly troublesome , since students may consider the clothing a sign of active support for the rival university . No reasonable person could take offense , but not everyone is reasonable . ) It 's also risky spending too much time wearing clothing emblazoned with a much more prestigious name than the university you are currently at . You do n't want to look like you are ostentatiously reminding everyone that you graduated from Harvard , unlike the riffraff around you . I do n't think either of these will be an issue for wearing a Dalhousie University hoodie at Nankai University . If this were in the U.S. or Canada , I do n't think it would be a problem at all : the worst case scenario is occasional good-natured teasing , and even that 's far from certain . However , I have no experience with how it might be viewed in China , so it 's worth looking into that specifically if you have reason to fear the reactions might be different .
As stated by Massimo Ortolano , the typesetting is followed by a final check , proofreading , by the author . In many journals ( I will not venture to say all ) the movement of an article from the editor involves additional steps . The article is scrutinized to make sure it follows the journal format down to the smallest detail . this can be done by the editor , it can also be done by the type-setter but there may also be a step where a third person , the copy editor , is involved . The copy editor will make sure there are no grammatical errors as well as checking formal issues regarding style and formatting of journal specific issues including references . The result of the type-setting procedure is that some changes will occur but they should not be serious enough to alter the meaning of things . However , this can happen and is usually the result of an over-zealous editor , copy editor or type-setter , or a combination of the three . It is therefore quite important to review the proof very carefully . It is also vital to adhere to the journal format already when the manuscript is submitted since the risk of later editing errors is reduced . What system " your " journal uses may involve all or a few of the ones mentioned above . Depending on the setup the type-setter may be more or less involved with the text but in its pure form the type-setter should only place figures and format headings , text , references etc. according to journal standards . The proof should then also only involve very minor changes ( all issue should have been resolved much earlier in the review/revisions process including adhering to journal format ) . In most journals with which I am familiar , the time allowed for proofing is very short , perhaps , one work week . this will vary between journals somewhat and I know some may have only a few days whereas other may allow somewhat longer . In the end it is mostly you who will " suffer " from lateness since your article may be published later than originally planned by the journal . My recommendation is to be accessible on a regular basis once a manuscript has gone to type-setting and expect to spend a few hours proofing it within a few days upon receiving it . At least you now usually proof a digital copy ( pdf ) and not a paper proof that has to be sent via regular mail ( although I suspect that still can be the case with some journals ) .
Between name changes , use names , transliteration , etc. , this is a rather common situation , and copyright forms are generally well designed to allow graceful handling of it . Most copyright forms that I have encountered include two separate places where you put a name : A list of the authors , in which you should write all of the names exactly as they appear on the paper . A signature line , in which an authorized signer ( in this case , yourself ) should place their usual signature , in the same form that you use it for other legal documents . There is no actual requirement that these names be identical , just that the authorized signer take legal responsibility for the assertions of the document , including asserting that the list of author names is appropriate . In fact , for some authors , their organization may not allow the author to be the person who signs the document ! Thus , if you write your name on the paper as " author " and you write your legal name for signature , this should be fine and appropriate . If , somehow , you encounter a form that does not make the distinction between the two names , then I would say it is highly likely that the organization issuing the form must be rather sloppy with regards to handling copyright in any case , and you should not worry about it .
As far as I know , there is no official please-do-not-bother-me-ever-again button that removes you from the reviewer list in a journal 's submission system . That being said , I assume just writing the editor a polite email should do the trick . Other than that , you can always continue to refuse reviewer invitations , and I am pretty sure editors will relatively quickly stop sending you invites ( they hate wasting their time , too ) . That being said , I would personally urge you to reconsider your stance on this . Reviews are an important community service that are essential to the functioning of science , and one review every few months really is not an over-the-top amount . For instance , I review at the very least one journal submission every month , plus proceedings papers for conferences and workshops where I am in the Technical Program Committee . That you recently started your PhD studies should actually only be more of a motivation to keep reviewing , as this is actually a pretty good way to stay on top of your field .
Yes . The number of ways to analyze data is very large . If the data is complex , it would be unlikely any two people would pick the same approach . Keep in mind that analysis methods are selected from the knowledge of the user to suit the goals of the user . Analysis methods are only partially selected based on the actual content of the data set .
How early should I start writing a paper for a conference ? Well , there are different approaches . Some people think " there is this conference coming , I need to write something for it " , others think " I have this nice idea of research , let 's see where I could present it " . In the first case , you might need to start very early , since you need to do all the research , while in the second case , you might just need to start early ... Seriously though , it depends a lot of the content of the paper , the mechanical action of writing it ( i.e. , typing and formatting the text on a computer ) is not what takes long . Is it reasonable to write and do experiments at the same time ? Sure . Even if you ca n't finish your experiments by the deadline , it 's very likely you can reuse a good part of what you 've already written for another conference . How many references should you check ? one professor told me : check 200 use 30 . You do n't check references because you should , but because they are relevant to your research problem . You should cite what you 've read and what you think is important with respect to you work . You should cite the approaches that laid the basis for your own approaches , and explain how you build on them , which assumptions you are challenging . You should also cite the approaches that are similar to yours , and explain why yours is better . There is no magic number : there are excellent papers with only 10 citations , and bad ones with 50 references .
The definitive place to check is the IMS 's <URL> , which conclusively says : However , the author ( s ) reserve the following : All proprietary rights other than copyright , such as patent rights . The rights to use all or part of this work ( with appropriate reference to the journal and article ) in future works of their own , such as lectures , press releases , reviews , textbooks , or reprint books . The right to place the final version of this article ( exactly as published in the journal ) on their own homepage or in a public digital repository , provided there is a link to the official journal site . The right to provide a copy of the final peerreviewed manuscript to the NIH upon acceptance for publication , for public archiving in PubMed Central as soon as possible but no later than 12 months after publication . So the IMS follows the <URL> ( which is confirmed by <URL> ) .
In short : yes , and a whole lot more . A PhD in the arts usually most closely resembles other PhDs in the humanities , like English or History , but often have a more experiential/practical component as well . Depending on the program and field of study , it might be somewhat of a mash-up of psychology , anthropology , physiology , literature , history , political science ... whatever relates to one 's area of research and study ! I 'll give a concrete , real-world example : in the Psychology department of my present university there are faculty and students ( undergraduates and those preparing for masters/PhD studies ) conducting cross-departmental research with the Theatre &amp; Dance department on the " Psychology of Dance " . In one experimental study they looked at inter-rater reliability of those who are not particularly trained or experienced in interpretive dance , and then showed them specially created dance performance videos . They were looking to see if interpretive dance really is a genuine form of communication : can the artists/performers communicate specific emotions consistently to the audience such as anger , fear , affection , companionship , etc ? Or is it all just people assigning arbitrary meanings , like people giving serious meaning to a randomly generated drawing ? Their results so far indicate that especially for some emotions , there is a very strong inter-rater reliability : even those who have never studied/seen interpretive dance before can identify certain emotions , activities , representations , etc - and as usual they work on writing up and publishing such results , giving talks , etc. . As another example , at <URL> program and they have a lot of detail on their website about the kind of things student 's are doing . These include things like studying different styles of dance , dance in other cultures , documenting and studying modern performance art , and so forth . As with most PhDs , the purpose of them is research and instruction , but what one does with it varies . Some will be instructors , professors , researchers , owners of studios , contributors in community organizations , lecturers , writers , performance artists ... some will go into ' industry ' as choreographers , directors , producers , and so on . It 's a far cry from Underwater Basket Weaving ! One thing I 'll note from personal observation : many , many people working in the arts choose not to go by the title " Doctor " or even " Professor " . This seemed odd to me , but it 's a culture thing - they just do n't do it . So , many people who have a PhD in the arts , especially in music and dance , do n't advertise their education in any way - so you 've probably known more people with a PhD in the arts than you realize !
There are two different types of value judgement that you are discussing here -- communication goals and grading -- and I think it 's important to carefully separate them . Communication Goals : I think that it is unfair to a person who is n't a native English speaker to not expect them to aim for the same goals of clear and lucid communication . When giving feedback , do n't brush over the language and grammar errors just because a person is not a native speaker . They should have the same chance to learn and improve as anyone else . Grading : Unless the class is about English grammar , making English quality a significant part of the grade is generally a bad way to evaluate a person 's work . If the language is bad enough that it interferes with your ability to understand the class-relevant content , then yes , that 's a problem and should receive proportional demerits . If the class-relevant content is clear , however , it 's questionable to me whether any points should be taken off at all . In short : grade very generously on language issues , but point out the mistakes so the student can continue to learn and improve .
Generally the citation styles for your field , and thus for your thesis , will dictate this . The <URL> website is a nice and popular resource to refer to what the most possible information would be desired for APA , MLA , Chicago , and Turabian - but you ultimately should refer to the exact , up-to-date published version of the style guide itself . As an example , for APA when citing a Journal or Conference paper/article , you would at most provide ( formatting stripped ) : Author , A. A. , Author , B. B. , &amp; Author , C. C. ( Year ) . Title of article . Title of Periodical , volume number ( issue number ) , pages . <URL> If something does n't have a DOI , the style guides say how to cite each type of resource . A book might be cited by ISBN , and if there is no DOI you might cite the arXiv in place of the DOI website - but you are never citing all of these things ! Cite only that which the style guide says you should , in keeping with the common tradition of papers in your field - no more , and no less . When using reference management tools they often help do this for you , but they do not absolve the author of responsibility for ensuring that the citation matches the appropriate style of their field and that the data and style is followed accurately . When You Do n't Know Your Style If you are unsure of what style applies to your field , a search for " { field name } style " can be helpful , but the Purdue OWL site linked above also provides further guidance on their <URL> . If you are unsure an adviser or your department office can provide further verification , and checking in with the department ( whether that be the department office , chair , or secretary ) is often a helpful technique . Special Case : IEEE I would note that the IEEE is somewhat of a special case ( and is very common in computer , engineering , and various technology fields ) in that there is a <URL> and <URL> . However , they both specify that when the guides do n't provide a specific answer to your question that you should consult the Chicago style guides . Thus the IEEE style may be considered a specialized version of Chicago style . So in the case of this style you should first consult the IEEE guides , and if and only if they do not provide sufficient guidance you can consult the far more comprehensive Chicago guides . Summation So in conclusion : if you have 100 fields of information available , you do n't include them all in the citation - just the ones that your field 's style says you should . Any good style guide ( all the ones I 've had to read ) gives rules of precedence and fall-back plans when certain information is unobtainable , with the information requested varying by the source being cited itself .
just saw this question on Twitter by chance , and I think I can answer it . At the moment , Google Scholar search results are not affected by the fact the person you 're searching has created a Google Scholar Citations account . The correct way to search for this Russian researcher on Google Scholar would be : author : " [ cyrillic spelling ] " OR author : " [ latin spelling ] " That way you would get both sets of citations .
To directly respond to your first question : yes , " density " is quite common in middle-to-top tier grad programs in math in the U.S. , once one gets beyond the " required/core " courses . There is a lot of backstory for almost all subjects , and faculty want to catch up to somewhere close to current events . It is also common that one 's conception of an incisive , efficient , insightful course is not mirrored accurately in existing textbooks , so one writes notes to match . ( This is better than " in the old days " , pre-TeX , when most often there were no published notes of any kind , not even hand-written , so note-taking in class was critical . ) About " abstract " functional analysis in particular , yes , I think it is fair to say that the style of many of the standard texts ( and of practitioners ) has drifted in a certain direction , including a sort of " density " . The hilarious and not-really-helpful opposite , from an older time , was the Dunford-Schwartz 3-volume extravaganza , which treated nearly every bit of mathematics as though readers would not have heard of it . Determinants , polynomials , etc. . Naturally , this low-density high-volume approach created its own problems , not the least of which was locating the key examples that were not part of " general " mathematics , but specific to the functional-analytic ideas . The subsequent decades ' monographs or texts on " topological vector spaces " have always struck me as peculiarly unhelpful in making connections to other parts of mathematics , though " maybe it 's just me " . I can not keep all the possible adjectives straight , and I do not see the point of many of them , nor are examples clear to me . Again , maybe it 's just my own limited interest , since I care about " functional analysis " for " applications " ( to automorphic forms and related matters ) rather than to itself , or to " applications outside mathematics " . A point that was not clear to me for a long time is that the " more exotic " types of topological vector spaces ( and families thereof , as in Sobolev-space theory ) are not merely " handy " , but essential in making many innocent-seeming discussions legitimate . So , not merely Frechet spaces , but LF-spaces ( strict inductive limits of Frechet ) already appearing as the correct topology on $ C ^ o_c ( \ mathbb R ) $ , for example . The notion of quasi-completeness really is necessary , since LF-spaces are never " complete " ( unless they 're secretly Frechet ) , but are always quasi-complete . And quasi-completeness is enough for many essential things to still work , like the Gelfand-Pettis ( or Bochner ) ideas about vector-valued integrals , and Grothendieck 's results about holomorphic vector-valued functions , and the strong operator topology ( weaker than the Banach-space uniform norm topology on operators on a Hilbert space ) . Holomorphic distribution-valued functions , and so on . ( My on-line functional analysis notes certainly go in such directions . ) In short , examples are critical , both to illustrate adjectives and theorems , and to see the necessity of introducing various seemingly-exotic types of topological vector spaces . At the same time , I think building up a resistance to random counter-example demands is good , much as with point-set topology . Some counter-examples are significant , others are n't . Much time can be killed , not terribly profitably , by trying to illustrate every possible logical distinction . Do n't do it .
Just talk to your colleagues , ask them to show you their previous presentations . It 's perfectly fine to be afraid to make a mistake and ask " silly " questions . Here 's what I would do : tell about your previous research , if you are from different country/uni - maybe show some pictures . Then tell about your project - even if you do n't have any results ( and it 's ok ) you can talk about your research plan , experiments you plan to do . It 's good to have feedback/suggestions from seniors at this stage . Then , if you 're new - you can introduce yourself to others , maybe have one slide with pictures that represent your hobbies , etc. .
Reject . No work exists in isolation . The authors need to position their work in relation to existing work , and this requires more than just putting a bunch of papers in the bibliography section : it requires a detailed comparison . The authors failed to do this . In any case , there will always be another conference for them to resubmit to .
end question
