start question
Should writers give credit to reference librarians ?
Yes , the acknowledgements section of your paper is an appropriate place to thank anyone who provided valuable assistance . Depending on the circumstances , you could phrase it pretty generally ( " I thank the reference librarians at University X for their assistance in conducting a literature search " ) , you could thank specific people , or you could even identify particular contributions ( " I am grateful to Y for bringing the literature on Z to my attention " ) .
First thing : the exact format will depend on the styleguide your are following . However , apart from variations in the exact formatting , just refer to it exactly as you do . The US constitution , for example , would be cited <URL> : U.S. Const . art . I , § 3 . U.S. Const . amend . XIX . U.S. Const . amend . XVIII ( repealed 1933 ) . depending on whether you cite an article from the original constitution , or a ( possibly since-repealed ) amendment . Somewhat tongue-in-cheek edit : I could not find a DOI ( Digital Object Identifier ) for the constitution of Montenegro ( nor for the US constitution , for that matter ) . If you find one , you might want to include it in your citation ( in the form of a hyperlink ) . If it does not exist , you may petition the Montenegrin government to create one .
I know people who restate whole proofs of mathematical theorems , either because the proof itself is interesting , or simply because the original presentation of the proof is poor in their opinion . It is completely fine to summarize works of other people in your work , you just have to make it completely clear that it is not your work . But you can quote even whole paragraphs IMHO , without much problem ( surely in math/natural science , I 'm not sure how 's it in philosophy and such ) .
It depends on the professor . If it 's someone who knows you well and has the time , then they would probably be happy to help . Most of the professors I came across during my undergrad were more than happy to help preparing me for grad school interviews . Just make sure you ask well in advance , so they have time find an appropriate time , and do n't take it personally if they say no : professors are really busy . EDIT : Make sure you ask professors that have been through the graduate application process in the same country you are applying , if possible . Ones who received their PhD elsewhere , or say 50 years ago , will probably turn you down simply because they do n't feel familiar enough with the process ( unless they are directly involved in admissions for your school 's graduate program ) .
I am assuming the two choices are at the same institution . If they are not , choose the higher-ranked institution ( if there is a clear winner ) , because moving forward , name DOES matter ) . That said : You have two currently incompatible , yet not mutually-exclusive motivations : a ) work with someone who is well known in the field b ) work with someone who has closely aligned research interests and , you are concerned about the letter of recommendation , to come later . the correct choice is B . You should work with the faculty member whose research interests closely match yours . Any other decision is to enter into a failing marriage . It is important that you can be excited about what you are doing , and your excitement will in turn excite your mentor , which will pay dividends . THAT SAID , names do matter . If the faculty that matches your interests is junior , you will have to plan ahead to ensure that in addition to his/her glowing recommendation , you also get a letter from the more senior colleague . This is n't impossible , or even difficult . If you are starting grad school , just be open and honest about it . Engage him/her . Go to their lab meetings . Later , when you do your prelim or comp exams , you can invite that person to be on your committee . You 'll get both of best worlds : an advisor that shares your passion and a letter from a big wig . You have to love what you 're doing .
Personally , I would go for the colophon option . This will be a natural place to look for anyone who has ever read a book , and it does n't " interfere " with the scholarly work you are presenting . Captions of figures are also fine , but if you use the icons in more than one figure , I would definitely prefer to place the credit in the colophon . In the end it is primarily an aesthetic choice , but I agree with not putting them in the bibliography .
Normally , the problem is the other way round . For instance , one phenomenon is that I often found with male students is that they override/overrule/overtalk female ones . If that happens more than sporadically , I interrupt them and tell them to let the other student speak out ( of course this cuts both ways ) . I mention this as a concrete example for a trigger/action based approach that works well to reduce imbalance . With this , I get good participation from the whole group . You talk about " soft spots " . Beware , this signals danger . Your student 's gender should be strictly taboo for how you deal with them . It is absolutely essential that all your students feel equally respected . Is it that you give more time to females ? Then actively allocate more time to males . Is it that you encourage females more ? Balance this by introducing some competitive element ( such as voting on responses , competitive problem solving ) ; male students tend to like that ( of course , I am generalising , it needs playing by ear ) . Intersperse your presentations with adventurous anecdotes of topic-relevant scientists . Generally : make a point of addressing more of the neglected students . BTW , this does not only hold for gender , but also for preference by activity or ability . Activate less able , or less active students . If you do that well , you earned your badge as teacher . Under no circumstance treat your teaching as a dating opportunity . It is not . Getting a jealous girlfriend might be an idea to help getting things under control - if you can not do it yourself , it may be the way to delegate that job to her ( and I am not yet entirely sure whether I am joking here ) .
Should one trust that citations are claiming what is in the articles they cite ? No . <URL> If there is n't anyone who has disagreed yet , should I assume it 's true for the purpose of discussions , without further examination ? There is a wide range of possible levels of trust between something I read in a blog post and something on the level that " the square root of 2 is irrational " . I 'd put a random peer-reviewed article somewhere between the two extremes , depending on the discipline , the journal , the state of the art and so forth . " Without further examination " should not be part of a scientist 's vocabulary . Except maybe for the square root of 2 . Should public policy be based on it , without further examination ? No . In particularly not if the article reports on experimental findings in psychology , economics , sociology , medicine and so forth . <URL> These disciplines always need replications and meta analyses , because they can not perform experiments as tightly controlled as , say , in physics . Should I trust data to have been collected correctly ? I do my best , but I would n't trust myself 100 % to have collected my data correctly for published work . Stuff always happens . In addition , peer review does n't really enter into this question . Peer reviewers can not easily assess your data collection - only your description of it . You could have made horrendous errors in good faith , and the reviewer would n't know . Should I trust data to have been processed correctly ? See above . Would you trust software to be bug-free ? You should n't . And again , reviewers do n't review your data analysis as such - usually , your analysis scripts are not part of the bundle you submit . Bottom line : peer review will increase my level of trust in an article , but not infinitely . In addition , like a good Bayesian , I trust more surprising ( which have a better chance of appearing in the more prestigious journals ) findings less . Therefore , I usually expect articles in Nature and Science to be less easily replicable than less " sexy " findings published in other venues .
In this specific case , as is pointed out by @JeffE , it should be : " Gordon and Metric ( 2012 ) provide a wide review of the key mechanisms ... " For a reference , please visit the following page to have a comprehensive collection of APA citation examples . <URL>
After I finished my undergraduate degree I wanted to thank those professors who were the most influential to me and my studies over the past years . In particular , those who wrote all my graduate school letters of recommendations and took the time to help me through the process . I thought about getting them a gift , but felt it was inappropriate . What I ended up doing was typing a letter to them which thanked them for all they did to me and provided a specific example in which they were influential to me that helped steer me in the direction I was going . I then mailed it to the department so they received it unexpectedly . All of them emailed me to thank me for the nice letter and that it was their pleasure . This would be a really nice thing to do that is n't flattering and full of praise , but what you actually got from them that was beneficial . Hope this helps :)
As far as equipment is concerned , in computer oriented fields I can assure you that the only thing equipment can affect is time and performance . I have done most of my personal work on an 8 year old laptop , and since half that work was on game development you can understand that lack of processing power has very visible results , but that does n't mean you ca n't make anything , it will just run slow ! Just mentioning it because one may argue that in developing countries equipment is scarce . As far as datasets are concerned , I propose four options : - You use public datasets already out there . That 's not the best because you have to pick one of a few options rather than gather data fitting your needs . Also having original data is considered a pretty good thing in research , though I personally do n't consider it that crucial . - You collect your own data either within the country ( it always makes an impression when you get out of the lab and get your hands dirty collecting data ) or online , with the help of other institutions that may make it easier for people to complete answer forms etc. . - You collaborate with an institution in another country , or even form a network of institutions within your or similar countries , and use collective data . Forming an official research network will also have a nice ring to it and may attract some publicity . - The final option is to contact other departments that are not working exactly on what you are working on , but may be interested in collaborating , if you can offer them some common goal . An example would be creating a database with advanced search capabilities on ancient literature , where the department of philosophy ( or equivalent ) would provide datasets and you would provide the framework . Note that you may have to develop software that will be easy for them to use before they can start building a dataset , but this will pay off eventually . I personally would go for option 4 , as it would also broaden the scope of interest in the project . 3 will give you some recognition outside the country , and 2 does n't really have any specific bonuses , but it may establish the institution as self-relying and productive , especially if you do this again in the future . There are probably a couple more options I have n't thought of , but there are probably the most notable , best of luck .
In order to cite a programming language , a possible way is to cite the reference manual , including the version of the language you use ( your approach might no longer work with the version of Python available in 20 years ... ) . For instance , you can have a citation like : Python Software Foundation . Python Language Reference , version 2.7 . Available at <URL> According to <URL> , you can also cite the original CWI TR : " G. van Rossum , Python tutorial , Technical Report CS-R9526 , Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica ( CWI ) , Amsterdam , May 1995 . "
It 's always good practice to cite as closely as possible , especially in a book . LaTeX makes it easy to do this with the form . For a paper , it 's often not necessary since one typically cites the main result of a paper . But even with a paper , if what you 're citing is a lemma buried inside ( and that is not obvious from the abstract ) it 's good to say or something like that . As to why people do n't do it , AnonymousMathematician already answered that above .
I think it can be acceptable if and only if it is clearly communicated in the submission that the former supervisor is the intended presenter . Deliberately misrepresenting who will present at the conference is dishonest . If in doubt , contact someone at the conference .
This really depends on your audience . At a department colloquium , I assume very little background , probably an undergrad degree in math , but not even an undergrad class in my research area . Here the audience will often be smart , but ignorant of the relevant background . At a research seminar with lots of undergrad and/or masters students , I still do n't assume much background , maybe an undergrad class in the area , but even then I " remind " the audience of important information they " should " know . At a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers I assume more , but even here I usually do n't assume that they 're familiar with the problem or the relevant literature or techniques . A conference special session ( or minisymposium ) is similar to a research seminar with mainly PhD students and active researchers . Here I often expect that much of the audience is familiar with the background and the techniques , but I still usually review them at least briefly . I 've never gotten complaints about giving too much background and context . I never assume the audience has read any of my papers . I typically view my talks ( at least in part ) as advertisements for my papers . The audience will never want to read my paper if they do n't see why it 's important ( so that 's my job during the talk ) . For those few that already want to read the paper , I hope they leave my talk with an outline of the paper , which will make it easier to read . Any time you 're talking to an audience with varied background , it 's good to briefly describe the key definitions . If you can do this quickly , perhaps only verbally , you do n't bore those who already know , and you give the rest a fighting chance to keep up .
Most organizations that have set requirements for applications refuse to look at any supplementary materials that are submitted in order to be fair to those who did not submit supplementary materials . The National Science Foundation , in many cases , reserves the right to return proposals without review that have certain kinds of unrequested or forbidden supplementary materials . I think it 's best to only submit what was asked for .
I 'm not sure that I see an ethical issue here . Ethically , I think you are free to omit your affiliation if you so choose . But I do n't see any benefit to you by doing so . It may be a symbolic jab at your institution for not funding you , but it 's not going to directly hurt them in any way : nobody is going to notice except you and them . On the other hand , it certainly can directly hurt you and your relationship with your institution . As just one example , they might decline to consider that publication as part of your research record when they evaluate you ( e.g. for tenure ) . Or , more seriously , they might decide that if you do n't want to be associated with them , they do n't want to be associated with you ; and therefore stop employing you ( if your contract permits it ) . Clearly you have some issues with your employer , and I hope you are able to improve matters somehow . But what you suggest seems at best ineffective and at worst self-destructive .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
Is there a reason not to show a student their letter of reference ? One important reason is if you make direct comparisons with other students , which is one of the most useful things you can do in a letter . If you say " this student is even more promising than X , and perhaps comparable with Y , but not quite as strong as Z " , then it does n't seem appropriate to tell the student . Even if your letter does n't name anyone specific , but instead says " this student was among the top two in a class of twenty-five " , it still leaks a little information about how other students performed in the class . Even aside from direct comparisons , you 'll be making implicit comparisons if several students compare the letters you wrote for them to see whose is more enthusiastic . That does n't raise the same ethical issues , but it 's still awkward . I have no interest in telling students my private opinion of how they compare with each other . The second question is , is it reasonable to refuse to write a reference for a student when the student does not waive their right to see the reference . Why not ? The fundamental question here is whether you ever have an obligation to write a letter . In general I 'd say no , although there are cases in which it would be offensive to refuse to write for anything less than very serious reasons . ( For example , Ph.D. advisors owe letters to graduating students . ) Under most circumstances , refusing to waive the right to see the letter sounds to me like a fine reason to decline to write one . There are also all sorts of intermediate options you could choose . For example , you could tell the student you would have to write something like " I warned this student that I could not write a compelling letter if he did not waive the right to see it , because I would be unable to compare him with other students . He insisted that he needed a letter from me but was unwilling to waive this right , so I will do the best I can . I can confirm that he received an A in my class and has sufficient preparation for further study in this field . "
Personally , I would be somewhat offended if a student gave me a template for a letter , and I would n't use it . ( Unless I had asked for one , which personally I would not . ) However , it is perfectly appropriate to say , " I believe that the committee will probably be interested in my ability to dangle participles and reticulate splines ; it would help if your letter could address this . " It is also fine to include a list or resume of your other activities that he may not be aware of , but leave it up to him how to use this list . It 's quite possible that your professor has written letters for students in this different field before and already knows what is expected . Also , for letters which are submitted online , the writer normally gets a message from the requesting institution explaining what issues should be addressed .
end question
start question
What are the reasons for not using title and designation in publications ?
I suspect to some extent it has to do with the wide range of available titles and honorifics out there . Moreover , this can lead to rather strange credits , such as the German system , where a title such as " Prof. Dr.-Ing . Dr.rer.nat . Dr. ( h.c. ) Dr. ( h.c. ) Dr. ( h.c. ) " is not as uncommon as it should be . Keeping to names makes things more egalitarian . If needed , you can always look up a person 's credentials . ( It also helps to keep things consistent , and easier to track authors and cite papers , if you do n't have to deal with titles as well ! )
I suspect to some extent it has to do with the wide range of available titles and honorifics out there . Moreover , this can lead to rather strange credits , such as the German system , where a title such as " Prof. Dr.-Ing . Dr.rer.nat . Dr. ( h.c. ) Dr. ( h.c. ) Dr. ( h.c. ) " is not as uncommon as it should be . Keeping to names makes things more egalitarian . If needed , you can always look up a person 's credentials . ( It also helps to keep things consistent , and easier to track authors and cite papers , if you do n't have to deal with titles as well ! )
It is great that you are thinking about networking as a PhD student . My advice would be escalate the relationship by one step . Going from a " nice " conversation at a previous conference ( where no email or contract info was exchanged ) to a social activity outside of a conference is a bit like asking someone you had a coffee with once to go on a trip with you . It escalates the relationship very quickly and could get awkward . Furthermore , many people do n't stay extra days at conference locations so it is likely to be unsuccessful . Less intense ways to connect : Send them an email saying that you noticed they were presenting at the conference , and you are looking forward to seeing their work and chatting again Run into them at the conference ( as Ian_Fin suggested ) and ask what they are doing for dinner or lunch on a conference day
In the US , you generally address colleagues of a similar status by their first names -- so your fellow faculty members would definitely be addressed informally . This would of course extend to collaborators and acquaintances in other departments . I think the only exception to this would be in the case of formal communications -- an official memorandum or letter from a faculty member to someone in the university administration , for instance . But otherwise , in any oral or informal written correspondence , I 'd stick to first names . ( In other countries , follow the appropriate local traditions , as they may be very different from US standards . )
In general , " Universitetslektor " is the closest the Swedish system has to an " associate professor " in the US system , and is close to a " lecturer " in the British system . The more junior rank would be " Biträdande lektor " , and the more senior " Professor " . There are some subtleties in play here though ; most importantly for the linked position is the phrase " tidsbegränsade anställningar " . This means that the position is for a limited time only -- they are hiring from March to December , supposedly to fill an urgent teaching need . The limit in time signals several things . One of them is that it is likely to be important to shoulder the teaching required -- it might , depending on the department and their situation , for instance be difficult to buy out teaching time with research funds . Another is that it comes with none of the tenure guarantees usual " lektorat " provides . Since the position is time-limited , it will evaporate at the end of the time , to be replaced with a different position if the department finds the funds to hire again . The hierarchy to figure out how the ranks work would be something like : Tidsbegränsad anställning : Time-limited appointment . Not subject to tenure-like employment protection . Adjunkt : Adjunct teacher . Needs not have a doctorate . Fills a teaching need . Biträdande lektor : Similar to tenure track ; usually time-limited to 4-6 years , at the end of which a review takes place deciding whether to upgrade the position to ... Lektor : The most common of Swedish University teaching/research positions . Obligated to teach , but can usually trade teaching time against research grant money . At every University I have ever interacted with , these come with an obligation for a certain amount of pedagogical qualifications -- and if you are hired without pedagogical coursework in your CV , you may have to spend large swathes of your first year studying higher education pedagogy . Professor : Similar to Professor in the UK or Full or even Named professorships in the US . It used to be very rare -- one or two per field was n't uncomomon ; but since 1999 , Professor is a possible target for promotion from Lektor , which increases the numbers . Before the 1999 reform , a Professor could not be fired , even under usual Swedish employment protection rules . In summary : " Universitetslektor " is an essentially tenured position . They all come with heavy-looking teaching loads , but it is common in Sweden to reduce teaching loads with grant money . " Tidsbegränsad anställning " is a non-tenured and likely to be teaching-heavy position .
In my discipline ( CS ) in conferences you can find several levels of reviewer recommendations that are different depending on the venue 's regulations . You may have : Strong Accept ( +3 ) Accept ( +2 ) Weak Accept ( +1 ) Borderline ( 0 ) Weak Reject ( -1 ) Reject ( -2 ) Strong Reject ( -3 ) Not all conference have the same levels . E.g. , The Borderline level is not very common ( I have only met it in one conference ) and Strong Reject or Strong Accept might not be there as well . Usually , for your paper to be accepted in good conferences , when we are talking about 3 reviewers , you usually need at least 2 weak accepts and 1 accept or something similar . Getting accepted with a weak reject is not very likely , unless the other two reviewers gave an Accept or better , but I do not think this is very common .
It think it does vary from institution to institution . From the perspective of my University ( and from my own job hunting in the UK ) , I would make the following observations . Salary pay points correspond to my University 's interpretation of the national HE pay scale <URL> . " research assistant " implies fixed-term contract work on a research project ( research only ) , where the postholder does not hold a PhD ( and is not close to completing one ) , pay point 23 . " research fellow " implies fixed-term contract work on a research project ( research only ) , with the postholder holding a PhD . Pay point 29 as starting salary ; pay point 37 for a " senior research fellow " , who might also be expected to supervise students and write grant proposals . " lecturer " implies a permanent contract with the postholder expected to conduct research , teach , and write grant proposals . Pay point 37 starting salary ; pay point 44 for a " senior lecturer " , as a career progression and probably managing multiple PhD/PostDocs and bringing in more grant money . " professor " implies a senior academic , probably starting at pay point 51 , managing multiple staff and working on large grants . I 'm sure there are exceptions to this , but it does seem about right for the University where I work and the others I have applied to .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
There 's no single right answer here . You should provide the information that you think is most salient in the given situation . In your case , you probably want to say something like " tenured research scientist " or " staff scientist , " as those terms normally give the idea of permanence in a way that " research scientist " or " research associate " might not . If you are writing a CV in English , on the other hand , you could write " Junior research staff ( permanent position ) , " as that gets your title more accurately . In this circumstance , it 's probably better to go with a literal translation ( or as Federico Poloni suggests in a comment below , the job title in the original language ) plus explanation , rather than try to find the " closest equivalent . "
" Publishing " on the arXiv is not a big achievement ; actually , it 's not an achievement at all . In terms of how prestigious it is , it 's not really any different from putting an article on your own personal website . The arXiv is n't a publishing venue , it 's a preprint server -- it 's purpose is to serve as a public repository for potential articles . It has various benefits ( it 's probably more reliable than your own website , it gives credible evidence about when an article was posted and modified , which is sometimes desirable ) , but it achieves those in part by not refereeing the articles on it . However , writing an article as an undergrad is certainly a meaningful achievement , and given that it can take a while for a paper to make its way to being in print , an appropriate unpublished article is still a positive for an applicant . Of course , the admissions committee wants to distinguish a good article from a bad one , and since posting on the arXiv is n't a good proxy for quality , the committee will look for others ( recommendation letters , for instance , or possibly just reading the article themselves ) .
In general , the only abbreviations that should be used in " headlines " and titles are " standard " ones that are normally ( or at least very frequently ) written in their abbreviated form . So , something like Escherichia coli could obviously be written as E. coli in a title without problems . ( Similarly , in my field , we have an algorithm entitled " particle -- particle particle -- mesh " which can be written as " PPPM " or " P3M " without detriment . ) However , any abbreviation that you have introduced in the course of writing should probably be avoided unless the alternative is too unwieldy . Moreover , you should not normally use both abbreviations and the expanded text unless you 're using the title to define the abbreviation : for instance , SAUCE : Simplified Abbreviations for Unwieldy Complex Expressions
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
TL ; DR : in France you have to find first the supervisor , then you apply for a funding . If you have a funding of your own , you have to find a supervisor to be admitted . In both cases : you need the supervisor first . There is various things to know when you apply for a PhD in France : It is forbidden to be a PhD without having funding . In France a PhD student is considered both as a student and an employee . The funding can be a state funding , an industrial funding , a funding on a research contract ( either from a national funding agency or a company ) , or you can also do your PhD while working elsewhere ( some teachers in secondary schools are doing their PhD this way ) . Industrial funding and research contract are basically given to the supervisor , who can choose alone amongst all candidates . So for PhD with those fundings you have to contact directly the targeted supervisors . State funding is given by a committee to a bundle ( candidate , subject ) , this means that a professor , with a subject , has to find a candidate and then propose to the committe this candidate on his subject . Then the candidate is on his own : ( s ) he will generally have to send an application letter , with a reference letter from the supervisor , and if ( s ) he is shortlisted , ( s ) he will have to make a short presentation ( either on location or using skype or a similar service ) . Last case : you are funded on your own ( job , external funding for foreigners ) . Even in this case , the procedure is that you find the supervisor , then you apply .
Here 's an answer based on my experience in the United States . I do n't know how well it generalizes to other countries , but some issues may be similar . You ca n't go wrong calling someone Professor or Doctor unless you know for sure that it is inappropriate and they know that you know . At the college level in the U.S. , it 's common to refer to your teacher as Professor X regardless of whether their official job title includes the word professor . ( The primary teacher of a college course is considered to be acting as a professor for that purpose , even if their official title is visiting scholar or postdoctoral associate or whatever . ) This may not apply to grad students , but it can cover just about everyone else . When possible I 'd avoid gendered titles like Mr. or Ms. , and specifically Ms. The issue is subconscious sexism : some people tend to use fancier titles to address men than to address women in comparable positions , and calling someone Ms. may make her wonder whether you are one of those people . ( If you are such a person , then you should mend your ways , and even if you 're not you could still be mistaken for one . ) On the other hand , Miss and Mrs. are far worse than Ms. , because they indicate marital status . You should never address an academic as Miss or Mrs. unless she has explicitly indicated that this is what she prefers .
You 're asking multiple questions at once , so let 's start with : What are the differences between a research paper and a patent There are many , but briefly a research paper has the purpose of communicating research findings to the relevant scientific community and the general public . Patents are legal documents used to prevent other people from commercializing the process or devices they describe . Research papers typically report results of a scientific process , whether experimental or not , while patents describe processes and devices along with their respective intended applications . Patents are typically very open-ended , not unlike a very long " future works " - section of an academic paper . The strategy is to cover a maximum of possible usages for the technology . it is not peer reviewed That is correct , peer review is a strategy used by researchers to filter , improve , and curate scientific literature . For patents , the review is driven by the legal requirements only . A major point is absence of overlap with existing patents and other publicly available material * . In some regions , a minimal demonstration of how the process/device works is expected by patent offices , but it 's not the same as peer review . Is it allowed to publish patent and then paper ? Yes , it 's the other way that 's problematic because as stated above , if you ( or someone else ) published a paper about your process or device you can not patent it anymore . Most journals are interested in novel results and all ( legitimate ) journals do n't want to re-publish existing literature but the fact that the processes are patented is not an issue . As stated in my first paragraph , both documents should have very little overlap . * On that subject , see the entertaining if not entirely historically accurate <URL>
By submitting your work to highly ranked , prestigious journals , you are typically confronting it with the strictest scrutiny and highest standards in the profession . You also accept that the novelty of your work will be judged by experienced researchers of your field . That 's how journals get their reputation and rank . The consequences are that you will have the very valuable opportunity to improve your work by receiving reviews or rejections . When your work will be accepted you 'll have made a significant contribution to your field . Submitting your work to journals that have lower acceptance standards , or pay-to-publish megajournals with no desk-rejection , you are possibly ( and I mean possibly because I ca n't judge your work ) watering down the literature with redundant or irrelevant material . So yes , by aiming high and accepting that your work could eventually not be worth publishing there , you are doing the scientific community a favor . That 's altruistic . Also if you 're an established researcher who do not need the exposure and prestige anymore to secure your career moves , you might have co-authors that are not that far yet . Making sure your common work gets the attention and scrutiny it deserves is common sense to me but also altruistic .
Almost invariably , the answer to " Is it OK to submit X for a class assignment ? " is " Ask the instructor . " . You do need to ask yourself whether your objective for the geochemistry class is to get a good grade , or to improve your knowledge and skills in the area of geochemistry , or both . Even if the instructor agrees with recycling the old paper , you may get more out of the class if you pick a different topic and write a new paper .
With regard to choosing to do your PhD research with a group working in your field of interest : - Benefits : In-depth subject specific knowledge , meaning that : You will get started faster . Your early mistakes and false leads identified and corrected earlier . You will get a faster entree into the best collaborative networks . You will get noticed by the community faster . You will be associated with experts in the field . Disadvantages : Depending on the supervisor , you might get rail-roaded into doing the science his/her " way " , leaving less opportunity for you to strike out on your own path . You are dealing with a new advisor , and that relationship takes time to cultivate . For your situation , it seems that you will have to get a source of funding .
You will probably never know the full reason , because departments are not quick to air their internal issues with job candidates . But here are a few possible reasons : The search was halted by higher administration . One possible reason to do this so late in the process is because of funding changes ( e.g. the funding for the position disappeared or was reallocated elsewhere ) . The search was halted by the HR department due to some violation of hiring practices . The search committee was unable to come to an agreement about who to bring to campus for an interview , or the dean rejected all the candidates before they were interviewed . Although this is less likely , someone who had planned to retire might have decided not to retire , or someone from another department may have been moved into the department ( e.g. for legal reasons to settle a complaint ) .
In anthropology , it 's pretty common to use local terms in both the title and subtitle . Almost everyone romanizes the terms rather than using the native script . And they leave explanations and glosses to the body of the dissertation itself . That being said , when it comes time to submit to a book publisher , they 're more hesitant about local terms in titles . The issue is that they are legible only to people who already know the local language or culture , so you 've automatically limited the appeal of your book . But there have been some notable exceptions : Travesti : Sex , Gender , and Culture Among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes Toms and Dees : Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand The Soul of Anime : Collaborative Creativity and Japan 's Media Success Story In the examples above , the exceptions prove the rule by either being obvious to English speakers ( " travesti " = ? transvestite ? ) , close to English ( " Tom " is obvious , " Dee " adds an element of curiousity ) , or already a loan word in English ( " anime " ) .
end question
start question
Is it rude to write in a journal paper " the proof is left as an exercise to the reader " ?
There are two separate issues here : omitting the proof , and calling it an exercise . It is relatively common to omit some proofs in research papers . In particular , proofs that are long but routine , or that re-use the same method as other proofs in the paper , are often abbreviated or removed . It depends on the intended audience for the paper , to some extent . You will get a sense of this by reading more research papers . But caution is needed : one of the first places to look for errors in a paper is in results where the proof was omitted ! The question whether to call something in your paper an " exercise " is more difficult . I would n't be surprised if some people do it -- but some people do n't write very well . The audience for a paper includes your peers , and you are not really in a position to assign them homework . There are other ways to indicate that a proof is easy besides calling it an exercise : " the following theorem follows directly from definitions " , " the proof of the following theorem is routine " , " the proof of the following theorem is similar to the proof of Theorem 1.3 " , etc. . Giving a small hint of how to prove the result can make the paper stronger , and it helps any readers who are not experts in the area .
I believe it 's only appropriate in the type of writing where you are in a position to give the reader excercises . That is , in course books or other learning material . There , I think it 's fine , assuming you 've already given enough information for them to be able to perform such an excercise . In papers or theses , you 're actually trying to convince the reader that you 're right - the reader is in the position of power , not you , as you want something from them ( to accept your ideas ) and not vice versa . Therefore , I 'd never write such a phrase in a paper or thesis . It 's of course a viable requirement to leave out some parts of the work , either because of space constraints or because they 're trivial , long but straightforward , would derail the course of the text , or something similar . If possible , such parts can be delegated to an appendix , or left out entirely . But I would accompany this with different phrasing , something like this : The formula ( 7 ) can be obtained from ( 6 ) using straightforward application of [ insert appropriate math branch here ] A detailed proof of statement ( 4 ) unfortunately exceeds the scope of this paper . The derivation of ( 3 ) from ( 1 ) is too long to present here , but it can be worked out using a symbolic computation system such as Mathematica . Equation ( 7 ) follows from a straightforward application of this-or-that theorem to equation ( 5 ) ; we refer the reader to existing literature on the topic for details of this .
As a general rule , you can not publish anything as original research that has already been published . ( You may be able to reprint it in other venues , but most research journals do not do this . ) Of course , the trick is what counts as " already published " . Nowadays , many publishers ( including all mathematics publishers , for example ) do not count informal distribution on the internet as prior publication . It 's common not to count extended abstracts from conference proceedings , although the journal may require some revisions or extensions . Nobody counts submitting a dissertation as prior publication , even if the university makes it available for download or purchase , and technical reports are generally in the same category . On the other hand , publication as a " real book " definitely counts as prior publication and would rule out journals . Of course , this just brings up the question of what a " real book " is . Basically , if it 's published by a serious academic publisher , with some nontrivial selection and editorial advice , then that counts as publication . On the other hand , if it 's some random publisher printing copies of Ph.D. theses and selling them online , then you could make a strong case that it 's not really published ( and that this is not so different from ordering a dissertation copy ) . However , I think you need to discuss this explicitly when submitting your paper . For example , you could add a sentence to your submission letter along the lines of " This work is based on my thesis from University X , which is available for sale by Y but has not been traditionally published " . It 's much better to deal with this upfront than to have someone later ask " Wait , why is someone selling copies of this work online ? "
Do n't make anyone do extra work . They may not want to ( or easily be able to ) open a different file to find the reference . Give up part ( 1/4th ? ) of a page for references . Do n't cram text in the main body , but references could be written with a ( slightly ) smaller/tighter font size/spacing if necessary .
Many ( most ? ) academic papers include a brief acknowledgment section somewhere ( the location is not standard ) . In this section it is frequent to acknowledge help by the referees . One can equally well acknowledge comments by referees of previous versions of the paper . For the sake of clarity it seems best to mention that one is thanking the referee of the previous version . E.g. if I were refereeing the new version , reading We are grateful for the help provided by the referee . is ambiguous : does this refer to a previous referee , or am I being thanked in advance for my help ? ( That 's not so good . ) Clearer would be something like This version of the paper takes into account helpful comments provided by the ( or " a " ) referee of a previous version . If the paper gets accepted in the second journal , one could change to something like We are grateful for helpful comments from multiple referees on several versions of the paper . Is it academically necessary ? I 'm not sure it 's ever strictly necessary to acknowledge an anonymous referee -- it seems to me that a situation in which it 's vitally necessary to acknowledge someone is a situation in which an anonymous acknowledgment would be insufficient . ( Moreover , the way I have always understood it is that referee comments are " being given " to the authors of the paper . ) If you feel that a referee 's contributions merit coauthorship , ( take a deep breath first ; this opens a can of worms ) you should discuss that with the editor . However , if you got direct intellectual help from the referee and not just helpful remarks -- i.e. , if the referee contributed some part of the intellectual content of the paper -- then I would certainly recommend documenting that rather than assuming the credit for yourself .
From what I can guess about the context , I would avoid putting the code in your paper unless : the code is really short ( say no more than half a column ) ; the code is interesting in itself ; and you know that your average reader understands the language R. Otherwise , it would probably better to omit the code altogether and write , in a note , something like : To those interested , the authors can provide the R code employed to compute the probability density functions described in this work .
It is considered an undergraduate degree because no degree is required in order to start the degree . Undergraduate masters degrees are increasingly common in the UK , <URL> . Postgraduate taught degrees are not currently eligible for government funding , so an integrated masters degree is often the cheapest route to a masters degree . The integrated MEng degree developed early , since an accredited masters is a requirement to become a chartered engineer in the UK . Such courses , at least in theory , include the content of a bachelors degree , plus the content of a standalone postgraduate masters degree , often with an option to abandon early and receive a bachelor 's degree . PhDs , MScs and MPhils almost invariably require a degree as an entry requirement , hence they are postgraduate degrees .
First of all , I do not like the tone of your question ( no offense ) . It seems like you are having a personal vendetta with those authors , which is a ) silly b ) unjustified ( they did not anything to harm you personally ) c ) counterproductive for your purpose of publishing your work . Let 's summarize some facts : However they claim to be state-of-the-art Either they are or they are not . If this paper is not the state-of-the-art , you should compare your work against the " true " state-of-the-art . If they are considered the state-of-the-art by the community , you should acknowledge that fact . In fact , if this paper has obvious disadvantages , this is even better for you , since it will be easier to show why your approach is better . they did some things which basically amounts to cheating their scores You are probably exaggerating . Some kind of overselling results is normal , but you are implying malpractice , which is not that common . So , tone it down and try to express a cold , neutral and objective evaluation of the other paper , with lots of arguments and experiments that back your opinion in your paper . Also , when you are objective and not trying to trash the other paper , reviewers will buy more into your argumentation . Also , consider that the authors of this paper might also be : a ) your future reviewers b ) your future collaborators c ) your future employers . So , treat your " opposition " with respect . This makes it easier for them to treat you with the same respect and more easily acknowledge and digest the fact that your method is better and their method is worst ( they are after all a part of the same community ) , which makes future collaborations easier and improves your visibility . As part of the introduction of a paper I want to write some critique on previous research Critique is not a motivation . You should first discuss the problem , why it is important , very briefly what previous methods have done on this problem and then you say very briefly and in a very neutral way the shortcomings of previous methods ( not just this one paper but all that have come before ) and why your work will be better . Then you slightly augment this argumentation in the related work section ( about their shortcomings ) again neutrally . It is your experiments section that needs to truly show why your method is better and how much better it performs , only after very thorough and exhaustive experiments that will overcome every reviewers ' doubts . TL ; DR. Keep your critique short , neutral and objective . There is not need to be humble about the advantages of your method but that does not need to be by trashing previous works .
I believe it 's only appropriate in the type of writing where you are in a position to give the reader excercises . That is , in course books or other learning material . There , I think it 's fine , assuming you 've already given enough information for them to be able to perform such an excercise . In papers or theses , you 're actually trying to convince the reader that you 're right - the reader is in the position of power , not you , as you want something from them ( to accept your ideas ) and not vice versa . Therefore , I 'd never write such a phrase in a paper or thesis . It 's of course a viable requirement to leave out some parts of the work , either because of space constraints or because they 're trivial , long but straightforward , would derail the course of the text , or something similar . If possible , such parts can be delegated to an appendix , or left out entirely . But I would accompany this with different phrasing , something like this : The formula ( 7 ) can be obtained from ( 6 ) using straightforward application of [ insert appropriate math branch here ] A detailed proof of statement ( 4 ) unfortunately exceeds the scope of this paper . The derivation of ( 3 ) from ( 1 ) is too long to present here , but it can be worked out using a symbolic computation system such as Mathematica . Equation ( 7 ) follows from a straightforward application of this-or-that theorem to equation ( 5 ) ; we refer the reader to existing literature on the topic for details of this .
In the journal where I am an associate editor , there is an unofficial policy that editors do not review . The reason for this is simple and pragmatic : if somebody is an editor , they are doing a whole bunch of work of the journal in that capacity . Asking them to review as well is double-duty , and the journal wants to spread the service load more broadly over the community . Now , there are special cases where an editor will do a review , particularly when there is difficulty obtaining a sufficient number of qualified reviewers . In my experience , though , this is rarely due to difficulty finding people with sufficient knowledge to review , even in highly specialized fields . Instead , it is most likely to happen with a certain species of dreary borderline paper that is very badly presented but possibly salvageable -- confronted with such a beast , reviewers suddenly all become " too busy at the present time " and an editor may end up having to review it themselves . So , returning to your question : I would suggest not bothering to suggest an editor as a reviewer . If you have a choice to suggest a handling editor , that 's fine , but your suggestion of editor as reviewer is likely to be simply ignored .
I must disagree with some of the answers . Some assume that it is a problem with the person asking the question and giving suggestive answers with a very limited number of fixes ( " I would strongly advise performing a major revision on your presentation of the proofs " ; " two potential problems . One is that you may be in error , [ ... ] . The other is presentation [ ... ] " ) . If we are attentive enough , we all know well what the source of our problems are : The magic word is feedback . If people complain consistently that our papers are hard to read , the suggestion to work it over has a point . If again and again referees find errors in the manuscript , we will take much more care to avoid errors ( proof-read , double-check , triple-check ) . But if we get an outlier answer and can not fathom what exactly should be the problem , it is very , very likely that we are not the source of the problem . Working the paper over in this case is a waste of time . The reason ( s ) that a referee rejects a paper are virtually unlimited . He is wrong , she does not care , he is busy , she is right , but explains it badly . Whatever . But what you can do is to read very carefully the answer and ask yourself under what circumstances a person would give the answer . Is it aggressive , dismissive , bored , sad ? It is rather short or more detailed ? Does it look like the referee invested time or it is hastily written with boilerplate passages ? On this you could often discern what the real reason for the rejection is . Everyone will sooner or later have a paper rejected for inexplicable reasons , it is normal . Nothing to be afraid of . That said , the best strategy already mentioned by other answers is to cut the losses and simply go to another journal . I would advise to challenge the decision if and only if the editor made it clear that the decision is not final and then if and only if it is objectively important to have it published in this specific journal . In that case do everything in your ability to check and recheck your paper and hone it to perfection because you will only get exactly one chance to convince the editor .
Do not use any professional letterhead when you are not speaking " on behalf " of the entity it comes from . Using your status , like explaining who you are or whatever , is fine . However , the sole fact of using entity 's letter head , implicitly involves your employer and can only ends in a bad situation . If you are writing to another department of the same university , like in case of an internal matter , this can be deemed acceptable , but otherwise I would refrain from doing it .
When you are evaluated as a job candidate in academia , the first thing people will see is your PhD . That will tell them that you know how to dig into a topic , get the background knowledge that you need in order to conduct the research you are interested in . The next thing they will look at is your publication record . Because of the peer review process , they will feel confident that if you publish in reputable journals on a particular topic , you know what you 're talking about . So if you 're sure you 're headed for academia , I think you will be fine just cherry-picking the particular courses you think will be most helpful for you in Environmental Policy . ( Although if you find that you 're , say , only one or two courses away from satisfying the requirements for the masters , then I suppose you might as well finish it off . ) Think of how many PhDs veer off in a different direction during the course of their career ! They do n't bother getting a new PhD in the process , because they already have one . You can think of the PhD studies as the apprenticeship to do research , and the PhD as a driver 's license which was issued in one state , but which you can use in other states .
In addition to Dave 's answer , I 'd say that in general , subjectivity is not very professional when writing academic papers . The point is to convince the reader by presenting only objective argument . Somehow , if I read a paper with something like " it 's cool , it 's amazing , that 's the best , etc " , then I might think that the author just ran out of objective arguments .
Send an email to the conference program chair right away and ask . The better conferences will be honest with you , either way . The answer could be no revision , but then you could move on . These mistakes happen .
Is this a cultural difference between continental European and British/American system I can not surely speak for all continental Europe , not even for a small portion of it and not for all fields , but speaking with a few European colleagues of mine , it appears that the expectations that we have on recommendation letters are completely different from the typical US expectations . In particular : We mostly consider recommendation letters as a mean to discriminate between those that are not able to provide any recommendation letter and those that can provide at least a couple . That is , we expect most of the people not to be able to get one ( in a distant past , I would n't have considered one who just attended one or two classes with me eligible for a recommendation letter ) . We do n't expect recommendation letters to be more than one page long , and half a page is ok ( you just have to tell me that you had worked with this person and that they are not that bad ) . We do n't expect the recommendation letters to be sent directly from the reference to the application board . We consider the writing of recommendation letters as a favour to the applicant , and not as a duty of our profession . Actually , all the recommendation letters I wrote but one were handed directly to the student ( or former student ) . For the exception , I 've received a direct request from a university to submit the recommendation through their online system : the uploading procedure , with questions to answer too , was such a hassle that I 've decided that in the future I will probably decline any request for recommendation letters to be uploaded anywhere . To answer your main question : Should I ask the professors to write and hand me recommendation letters directly , or should I try to communicate with the university and let the professors email them the letter/give me a physical letter sealed within an envelop , which I will send to the university by mail later on ? I understand your reasons , but I 'd consider this an odd thing to do . I 'd simply ask the student to provide the recommendation letters . In case the professors were reluctant to hand the letters directly to the student , I 'd write an email explaining the different traditions .
It is not a question of ethics , it is a question about being courteous . Reviewers spend time to read and comment on your manuscript . Regardless of the type of comments you receive there will be significant voluntary work involved . It is only fair to show some gratitude . One way to think about this is that it is no different from any other type of professional correspondence .
Talk to your advisor , now . Dealing with funding and finances are a significant part of academic life ; they are n't some shameful taboo thing . Most academics do n't pay for professional travel , including conferences , out of their own pockets ; often funds are available from your institution , or from any grants that may be funding your project , or from the conference itself . It 's entirely reasonable to ask your advisor about funding sources that might be able to pay the cost for you attending this conference ; you should also research possible funding sources yourself . If funding is n't available , or ca n't cover the full cost , it 's up to you to decide whether you want to spend your own money to go . If you decide that you ca n't , that 's okay ; you just wo n't go . I do n't think people would see this as stinginess on your part , but rather a misfortune that no other funds were available . However , by the same token , if your advisor tells you that he does n't have any funds available to pay , you should n't expect him to dip into his own pocket . Ideas like your " 50/50 split " do n't usually come up , unless there are multiple outside funding sources that could pay , and the question is how to apportion the costs between them .
The proportion of " homegrown " to " ... imported ? " PhDs varies depending on your discipline , but at the science end of things ( I 'm in computer science , but know plenty of mathematicians and also majored in chemistry as an undergraduate ) it 's quite international . Apart from pathological cases ( known " bad " universities , or otherwise extremely dubious universities ) , where you got your PhD is not particularly important . As Jeromy says in another answer , international experience is definitely viewed favourably though . My having done my doctorate overseas has definitely been a boon . The real criteria are performance based ; publications , teaching ( especially awards or other recognition ) and ability to bring in the grant money ! ( That last one in quite important , for better or worse ) . As a recent Doctorate , you 'll mainly need to show that you can conduct quality research . Just for some completely non-statistically-significant stats , my Australian undergrad . chemistry department had about 50 % overseas PhDs , my CS department had more like 90 % overseas PhDs and my maths department had about 50 % too . At my current ( Australian ) department ( CS ) , it 's probably about 70-80 % overseas PhDs ( though that 's a guesstimate at the moment ) , including me . Of course the caveat is , again , this will change from department to department and university to university . Some like to only hire their own graduates , others will never hire their own graduates . Your best course is really to contact the academics offering the jobs , establish a bit of an informal relationship and find out what each position is looking for .
Oftentimes , and that 's valid esp . for academia , a call will be better than an email . It 's really easy to oversee ( deliberate or not ) an email , but if you call , the editor ( or a secretary ) has to answer . And if you have someone on the line you can ask your questions directly and he has to answer or give you sme other sort of feedback . It 's annoying for a lot of us , since an email is easier , faster , you can better oversee what you 're writing and you do n't have to call someone and speak to him personally . But from an efficency point of view , a call is in most of the cases the best approach . Just ask polite , do n't make some sort of accusation or preasure somthing , but that are the same rules that apply for emails .
end question
start question
Conference presenting : stick to initial paper submission or include recent improvements ?
do I have to stick with the work that is going to be published , or can I also present some of the more interesting , newer work ? Absolutely present the improved model . Conference submissions photograph the state of the work at the time of the submission . But from the submission deadline to the conference , many months can pass and usually people continue to work on their projects . Frequently , by the time of the conference , new results have been obtained , and these surely deserve to be presented .
Some conferences explicitly encourage ( or even require ) poster presentation of papers . In this case , there is typically an option to simply request that your existing paper also be given a poster slot . Thus , it may in fact be quite reasonable to seek to present in both ways , if the conference supports this . It would not , however , be appropriate to submit a separate poster paper that pretends to be different than the accepted paper . That would be self-plagiarism , and the conference organizers might look very badly upon you for doing that . I would thus recommend getting in touch with the poster chair and asking if they allow accepted full papers to have an accompanying poster as well . If so , that 's great , and you probably do n't need to submit anything more than a formality at most . If not , then accept that there will be no poster and do n't submit anything !
During my PhD , I subscribed to the RSS feeds of the journals I would regularly read ( started with 6 of them , ended up with a dozen ) . I would skim through titles of all new articles , and read abstracts of those whose title drew my eye . I then found out that some journals ( J. Chem . Phys . in that particular case ) offer specific RSS feeds for each of their sections , in addition to the " whole journal " feed . That helped reducing the number of journals I was skimming through . Now , after the end of my PhD , my research interest are broader , the number of journals I like to watch is larger but my time is more limited . This system did n't work anymore , and I set up a new system , which has worked well for a few years . I use bibliographic databases ( SciFinder and Web of Science ; but I 'm sure Google Scholar and PubMed have the same features ) to create publication and citation alerts . Here 's what I have set : Citation alerts for all my own papers : if someöne cites my work , there 's a good chance I 'll be interested in their paper . This one has two additional " strategic " bonuses : you get to keep an eye on your competition , and you can suggest newer work to other authors when relevant ( " hi there , I saw your recent paper citing my 2008 article on X , I thought you might be interested on a new extension of this algorithm that we published this year " ) . Publication alerts for major players in the field of interest : I have 10 to 20 of those , watching all papers these people publish . Citation alerts for some seminal or high-impact papers by others in the field : a good way to see how a new idea is adopted/improved by the community . Those tend to trigger a massive number of cites , so you may want to get rid of them after some time . I have between 5 and 10 of those alerts at a given time . The only drawback to this method : database updates tend to lag somewhat behind the RSS feeds of the journals themselves , so you get papers that are 2 to 8 weeks old . In addition , use conferences to stay on top/catch up with the literature : Look at contributions made , see what 's new and go check the relevant recent publications . Even if you 're not at the conference , look at the online program and see what looks new . If you 're attending , talk with people ... you can also use that opportunity to ask some people ( whom you do know well enough ) : Have you seen that new technique by the team at MIT ? it seems to work really well ... I was wondering : what has caught your eye in the recent literature ?
Yes . Publication requires both the consent of the publisher ( via the editor or program committee ) and the consent of the authors . If you do not consent to publish under the conditions imposed by the publisher , you can just say no .
Significance may be a very subjective judgement . Of course , for old , famous problems such as Fermat , any proof would count as significant , but the question becomes much more dodgy when one enters a side alley . As heuristic , ask yourself : is the result solving an old , unsolved problem ? Is it connecting two unconnected or loosely parts of the field ? Is it a beautiful , unexpected result ? Is it generalising existing concepts ?
In part it means that the conference organizers have access to the conference administration tools and resources that IEEE , ACM , or the like provide . Having been around some IEEE-sponsored conferences , that can mean things like payment processing and credit card handling ; access to a journal special issue for proceedings ; conference organization website for registration , submissions , and reviewing ; and registration discounts for members of the society . Access to these features does n't come for free . The professional societies charge for their use and stand to make money on them . As such , while you have to propose the conference and get it approved , after that the oversight is less . The quality of a conference comes down to the Organizing Committee and it 's technical/content/papers committee . If you 've never heard of any of the members of these committees , or many of them appear to have low-quality papers , there 's a good chance that the conference is n't all that great .
Unless I totally misunderstand what kind of colours we are talking about , your student did what I would consider best practice . Using a consistent colour scheme for all figures in a publication or presentation is a good thing for the following reasons : It is aesthetically pleasing , in particular on posters and presentations . If two plots have colour axis for the same variable or measure , it facilitates comparing them . If colours encode the same things across plots ( e.g. , red is always species A , blue is always species B ) , it increases readability , as the reader does not always have to check the encoding for each figure . This also holds across publications , if they are about the same topic . this makes it harder to see which figures are cited from the paper and which are his own Citations should suffice to indicate this . You can not rely on stylistic mismatches to detect images from other sources anyway . I put some effort into it As <URL> , developing a colour scheme is rarely a scientific achievement . And even if you consider it to be one , your student can cite it and reuse it . After all , being reused is what scientific results are for . Remember that many scientists use plotting and typesetting programs developed by other scientists . An acknowledgement does not hurt though , but I would probably not be very insistent on it .
Attending conferences is very useful for several reasons . Usually , the work presented at conferences involve the latest developments in the field . This may provide you with new ideas or tools for your own research . It will give you a good overview of what is happening . You will also become familiar with who is doing what . In addition to this you also have the possibility to get in touch with colleagues and strike up new contacts with persons working on questions for interest to you . This can become useful in the sense that you can possibly start up collaborations or simply become known to others in the field . The latter can be important , for example , when you publish since reviewers might easily be someone you meet during the conference . Obviously , presenting something makes this even easier but being there is far better than not . The reason I can see from not going is if you do not think the conference is of major interest or if you do not think you will meet people interested in similar questions to yours , in other words if you can not see any academic benefits from going . Saving money is of course also a valid question if you think you can use that money more wisely on , for example , another conference . But , in general , go to good conferences regardless of whether you have something to present or not .
( this might strictly speaking be out of scope of this site , but I 'll answer anyway as I think the question in general comes up quite often ) Generally , when one is asked to write a scientific paper of some sort in university , there is an explicit or implicit expectation that you will use references . Often , students think this is unnecessary because they feel they know already " everything " , or at least enough , about the subject without searching through the literature . This is usually a fallacy for a number of reasons : Oftentimes , students check web pages like this one and learn that in a published research paper , a certain level of common ground can be expected and does usually not need to be referenced . However , what " can be expected " is clearly dependent on the type of paper you are writing , and a published research paper works differently than a term paper in a freshman course . Further , there is an underlying misunderstanding of what one needs to reference . References are not only required for what you are learning from literature " right now " , i.e. , in the current class . The things you already know you probably did not research on your own , entirely independently . You learned them in a previous course , and ( maybe long before that ) , there was a paper or textbook that introduced these concepts . Keep in mind that any paper writing assignment in a course is foremost a learning experience . One of the goals is that you should learn to research additional material ( hence the " This essay may require additional research outside of the text . " ) , and to cite it correctly . Circumventing this learning goal by basically just writing down what you feel does not require citation usually does not make instructors happy . Generally , writing ( only ) about your " own experience " is a bit of a fallacy in itself . You should understand that you are in that case basically generalizing from a sample size of 1 ( you / your experience ) . Let 's look at an example . Maybe you have , for instance , worked a bit as software engineer , and hence believe that you do not need to read the literature in order to write a paper about software engineering processes ( I am making examples up here ) . However , in that case , you know exactly your own company processes , and know little about how everybody else is building software . This is where you would look over published papers for more rigorous studies . All that being said , in the end Dave Clarke 's comment is accurate : It would be worth asking your instructor .
If you are writing a research paper it is quite difficult not to have a question in some form . The purpose of the introduction is to set your study ( question/gap of knowledge or what have you ) in perspective , to narrow the focus down from a slightly bigger picture to the gap you are trying to fill or narrow even further with your study . Even if your paper is a review , you are doing a review for some specific purpose . So , you may be thinking too narrowly if you think of a question as a sentence with a question mark , the focus of your paper will be your research question , usually a gap in knowledge where you through your study takes our knowledge beyond the current limits .
In math , FPSAC ( Formal Power Series and Algebraic Combinatorics ) accepts and referees " extended abstracts " for presentations . Presenters are selected based ( in part ) on the quality of these abstracts , and the abstracts appear in a special issue of DMTCS . The submission guidelines for FPSAC state The authors will retain the right of publishing a full version of their work in another journal . Authors who do intend to publish a full version elsewhere should however make sure that their conference contribution is clearly an extended abstract of this full version . Several conference centers publish proceedings of their workshops , for which presenters are asked to submit extended abstracts of their talks after the fact ; for example , both AIM ( the American Institute of Mathematics ) and Oberwolfach ( formally known as Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach ) do this . Again , the norm is that the abstract should be a summary of your presentation , with less detail than the published version . I think that the main answer here is going to be " see if the conference organizers have made a statement , and check with some more senior people as to what the unwritten norms are " .
The PC member may be a professor , but I promise , they are human just like you and me . In your place , I 'd find out the email address of professor and write a polite email making your case that you are both researchers in the same field you noticed the professor is actively participating in that special PhD consortium your submission to that consortium was accepted you have been following/citing that professor 's work , but be very brief and direct about it ! you 're a researcher , but neither fan nor worshipper ! you care for a meeting at the conference to which that consortium is associated you appreciate that professor 's opinion Or , if you really just care for feedback on that submission , you can flat out ask for an opinion on your submission . These worked quite well for me . Also , direct approaches during coffee breaks are opportunities as well , but ( T ) PC members often have closed meetings during those so you would have to take your chances ... But seriously , experts in their research areas care for the work of other researchers ... or you need n't care for their opinion .
Contrasting your work with earlier work on the same topic ( same or related questions ) is a crucial part of a scientific publication . You have to explain to the reader what makes your approach better ( or worse ) depending on the exact problem to solve . Now , whether you should do this in the section devoted to review of the existing literature is debatable . There are no strict rules , so as long as you do it somewhere and the paper is clearly readable , just do what seems best to you . If you have trouble writing , I would suggest you separate the content into a simpler form : State of the art : review of the existing literature . What problems are solved , what are remaining questions , where can we make progress . This is the motivation of your work . Your methodology Your results Discussion of how these results compare to earlier work : you 're doing better than A and B on large matrices , but the approach means that you will be slower than C on sparse matrices , that sort of stuff .
I 'd go for the diagram , supplemented by a short table if need be . But be prepared to have a " full version " ( with complete tables as appendices or so ) as a technical report or otherwise available for anyone who wants to replicate your work ( or use your data for comparison , or whatever ) .
Summary : Is it ok for you to include the CC By-NC 4.0 image in your paper ? Yes . Is it ok for the paper to go through a particular process at the conference ? Maybe ( see below ) . The answer to this question is not clear-cut . There is no general agreement as to what constitutes " commercial purpose " with CC licenses . There has been much <URL> which has resulted in guidelines , but they are still not black and white . The best approach is to contact the person who owns the copyright for the image and ask them for permission . That is the non-ambiguous approach . If that is not possible , the next best approach would be to discuss the issue with the conference in question . Depending on how aware they are about licensing issues , they may already have an option in place to address your situation . A separate issue is the one of copyright transfer . You are free to transfer your own copyrighted content to another body , such as the conference . But you can not assign another person 's copyright to them . Usually there is a line in the copyright transfer agreement that requires you to specify that you own all of the material being assigned to the new owner . Regardless of the outcome above , you do not own the copyright on the image , even if you have permission to use it . These are separate issues . Once again , you should discuss this issue with the conference organizers . My personal experience has been that many conferences request copyright transfer as a blanket process without realizing that it 's often not necessary . When I have contacted such conferences and told them that my work is published under a CC license and that I will NOT assign the copyright to them but WILL give them permission to use it as they see fit , they usually accept and have no problem with it . Sometimes , however , the conferences get stuck on procedure and try to force a single process that does n't fit modern publishing constraints such as the ones you describe .
If you can write in latex , you should write on it versus word . The latex is specially designed to work with technical documents with a lot of mathematical equations . Also , you can write math equations in word using built-in equation editor of Microsoft word or MathType as a better alternative than built-in ones . See this link for <URL> for equation writing in Word with better configuration . Technically the MathType produces equations with higher equality than Word built-in and I recommend it to use as a macro on Word . About writing in Latex and then revert to Word , it would n't be recommended and will be reduced the quality of equations ( due to reversion complexities and equation editors ' of Word difficulties ) .
The main point to consider is probably that of success . The relevant questions here are : Can you address the justified criticism ? Can you convince the editor or even the reviewers that the unjustified criticism is really unjustified ? Do you think that you can convince the editor to consult the opinion of yet another referee ? How much of the rejection is based on predominantly opinionated aspects , such as relevance and scope ( e.g. , " not enough physics " ) ? Apart from some exceptional cases ( e.g. , if you can actually add something to the manuscript that increases the relevance ) , such criticism is difficult to address . Are the reviews criticising the same or different aspects ? Some examples : You have three reports . All criticise a lack of relevance . They may or may not criticise other aspects . -- Resubmitting is very likely a waste of time . Lack of relevance is a killer argument and most of the time , swaying a referee means convincing them that they erred in their assessment , which even in academia few people are capable of admitting . And you probably have to sway at least two referees . Moreover you have to convince the editor that you properly addressed the issues , so there will even be another round of review . It 's unlikely that the editor will consult additional referees . You have two reports . The first one only criticises the lack of relevance but has no other major point of criticism . The second one finds the manuscript relevant but strongly criticises a technical aspect , which you can address . -- The second referee can probably be easily satisfied . Unless the first referee has overlooked something essential , it will be difficult to sway them . However , the referees are one-to-one on this matter and by addressing it , you may convince the editor . Another possibility is that the editor consults the opinion of a third referee . You have two reports . Both are negative but outrageously sloppy : For example , they criticise claims you never made , base their criticisms on misunderstandings they could not possibly have noticed as such or ask you to discuss alternative approaches which you did already discuss . -- You can easily address the criticism and possibly sway a referee that is more awake during the second round . If you make your case clear , you may also convince the editor to consult new referees . Another aspect to consider is that of time : If at least some referees will be used again in the second round of review , this round is usually going to be faster , as it reduces or eliminates the time spent on finding appropriate referees and waiting for referees that decline to review . Moreover a referee that is already familiar with a manuscript needs less time to review it . If you manage to convince the editor that some of the referees from the first round were not properly doing their job , this may lead to a speed-up of the next round . If a major hurdle is the editor accepting your rebuttal , you waste little time if you fail , as such a decision usually happens quite quickly . Depending on the constraints of alternative journals , submitting your manuscript there may require some rewriting work . Therefore , even if you consider a resubmission to be less likely to succeed than a submission to the next journal , it may result in the least average time to publication . Finally , you have to consider the number of journals that exist on the desired level and that are appropriate for your manuscript in terms of scope , length and possible other constraints . If there are only few such journals , you are more likely to exhaust your options and thus resubmitting is more likely to be worth the effort and time .
In a CV you try to organize your important personal information in a clear and useful way for others to see and gain a good perspective . In this case you have a thesis . It should clearly be listed so that it is clear it is one of the outcomes of your degree . It is commonplace for people to turn a thesis into papers but that usually involves rewriting the material substantially . Such papers will be listed under headings such as , for example , " Peer-reviewed articles " , " Conference contributions " , " Abstracts " , etc. . In your case you could add your article under a heading such as " Conference contributions " , Non-reviewed articles " or " Other articles " ( the later only makes sense if you have a heading " Peer-reviewed articles " ) and make sure it is clear that the heading also implies the articles are not peer reviewed . If your article and your thesis is , in fact practically the same text with the same title , it would not be advisable to follow the guidelines outlined above . the reason is that it may seem to a reader of the CV as if you are trying to inflate your publication record . In that case you could perhaps make a note in the CV in conjunction with the thesis that it has also been published under the same name or to add it under a different heading but stating that the paper is the same as the thesis , thereby taking the possible edge of the double appearance . In the end it is clearly not a problem to publish thesis material after a degree and still count both the thesis and the resulting article but the basic rule is that a specific text should not be counted twice . It would then essentially count as self-plagiarism . So just act responsibly and be open and honest about issues that can cause confusion or raise eye-brows .
Thanks for clarifying . Do n't worry about the effect this would have on your future chances with this paper and this journal . If this pre-submission step fails , that is an indication that the classic approach would also fail . Either they feel it 's worth sending out for review or they do n't . But send the whole thing , not just the abstract . They need to be able to see the tables and figures . When you send the full long version to the editor , here 's a way to word the question : ask whether the work is appropriate for the journal . If you get an encouraging response , then you can start slashing , do a formal submission , and hope for the best ! ( Source : I have to give the credit to my spouse for this answer , who has about 250 publications . Edit : in case this helps -- in the field of experimental physics . )
If you are able to resolve the authorship dispute , then clearly that would be the best solution . On the other hand , if you are unable to resolve the dispute ( at least on a timeline compatible with the conference 's schedule ) , then not only is it ethical to withdraw the paper , but in fact that would be the only ethical course of action . Basically in this situation you have no reasonable choice and you simply have to withdraw the paper , which is why it is clearly ethical despite the fact that it means you will have wasted the time and effort of the organizing committee and reviewers . With that said , even though withdrawing the paper is ethical , there may still be some hurt feelings and a small amount of loss of credibility on your and the other coauthors ' part , so it is important to do all you can to minimize the damage by being as honest and transparent as you can about what happened and about your motivations . As Anonymous Mathematician points out , just telling the organizing committee that there 's an authorship dispute might come across as a lame and possibly suspicious explanation . What I would do is make sure to include in my withdrawal email : an apology ; a relatively detailed explanation of the nature of the dispute , which establishes the claim that withdrawing the paper is the only reasonable course of action open to you ( if there are some highly sensitive or personal details , you can omit them , but try to provide as many details as possible to make your claim that you have to withdraw as credible as possible ) ; an apology ! Specifically , acknowledge that you should have sorted out the authorship issue before submitting the paper and that you and the other authors are at fault for not taking proper care on this matter . Make it clear that you understand what went wrong and will be more careful in the future . My feeling is that with the proper explanation , no one will bear you any hard feelings for creating this somewhat awkward situation -- reasonable people understand that these things can happen ( as Anonymous Mathematician points out , in rare cases they can happen even when everyone is behaving reasonably and has the best of intentions ) . Your reputation will survive . In any case , letting the paper be published when there are unresolved issues surrounding authorship is almost certain to lead to a much bigger mess and much greater damage to the reputations of everyone involved .
end question
start question
What should I state for " expected salary " in a tenure-track job application ?
I feel it 's kind of obnoxious to ask for an expected salary , and it does raise issues of whether the answer could be used to lower the initial offer ( or decrease the applicant 's negotiating power ) . I do n't see anything wrong with giving a vague answer or just saying you are flexible . If you specify a number , you should try to choose one that 's representative of the type of school you are applying to , as Danny W. suggests . As for why they do it , one reason is that salaries vary enormously . A regional liberal arts college may pay less than half as much as a leading research university . Some U.S. states scandalously underfund their state universities , so there can be dramatic salary differences between what you 'd think are comparable institutions . The net effect is that schools that are n't able to pay a lot worry about attracting candidates who have no idea how little they pay . They do n't want to waste time trying to hire someone who will never accept any amount they could plausibly offer . One way to get around that is to announce a salary range . However , some departments are hesitant to do that , perhaps because they do n't want to publicly emphasize how little money they get ( and thereby humiliate themselves or discourage applicants ) . Instead , they ask for an expected salary and filter out anyone who names a figure far out of their range . I do n't like it , but it seems to work well enough that departments keep doing it .
some have suggested complaining or going to some authority , but offer no specific suggestions about how to do this First , you need to understand how the authority chain is structured in academia . Your first course of action is to confront the instructor , which you 've already done . The next step up would be the department head , and after that , the dean of the school -- but I would n't recommend going past the department head with your complaints . You need to do this very carefully . You need to be level-headed , respectful , factual , and specific . Be sure your case is compelling . In the event of a " he-said/she-said " debate , assume the department head will probably lean toward having the faculty member 's back , rather than believing an offended student . Many students are too quick to complain when things do n't go their way , making it easy for complaints to fall on deaf and jaded ears . For example , in the scant details you 've provided here : Assignments are graded without rubric . I wo n't dispute the value of rubrics , but this is hardly a grievous offense . Many instructors do n't opt to use rubrics . Homework is graded inconsistently with instructions . This will be very hard to prove . A lot of assignments are by nature subjective , and it 's hard to pinpoint why grades are given the way they are . Students often turn in work that is inconsistent . For example , say I assign some problem to be answered with an essay question . One student gets right to the heart of the matter , but the overall work is sloppy , and it reads like a draft that was hastily written 10 minutes before class . Another misses the point a little bit , but the essay is carefully crafted and has a lot of supporting detail . A third addresses the matter from an angle I had n't considered before . How are my instructions supposed to cover all those cases , and more ? ( Moreover , assignment instructions are often very hard to get right the first time around , because you do n't yet know how students might misinterpret stated requirements . ) Tests are very hard , but contain no relationship to the course assignments and lessons . The first part of that is not a problem , although the second part is . If you start out by complaining about difficult tests , you may come across as a whiner and get very little sympathy or support . Be very careful about even mentioning that " tests are very hard . " You 'll also have to figure out what you want the end goal of your complaints to be . Do you want action taken before the semester is over ? Or are you only looking to give feedback so that next year 's students do n't find themselves in the same unfortunate circumstances ? If you 're hoping for intervention this term , probably the best you could hope for is for the department head to counsel the instructor , urging him to get his act together before the end of the term . But there are two sides to every story , and , unless your complaints are true on a large level , you 're unlikely to get much sympathy . In other words , a bad question here and there on an exam is part of getting a new course underway , as are confusing assignments . If these are just normal " growing pains , " you 'll come off as a malcontent . On the other hand , if these are verifiable , wholesale shortcomings in the ability to conduct a course fairly and effectively , you might get a department head to step in , and urge the professor to get his act together . Even then , though , you 'll probably have to make it to the end of the course , and you might see very little improvement . It 's unlikely that the instructor will be reassigned midstream . In short , you 'll have to convince the department head that this faculty member is bordering on incompetence , and that it 's not merely a case of an unpopular professor . This might be a tough sell .
There 's no single right answer here . You should provide the information that you think is most salient in the given situation . In your case , you probably want to say something like " tenured research scientist " or " staff scientist , " as those terms normally give the idea of permanence in a way that " research scientist " or " research associate " might not . If you are writing a CV in English , on the other hand , you could write " Junior research staff ( permanent position ) , " as that gets your title more accurately . In this circumstance , it 's probably better to go with a literal translation ( or as Federico Poloni suggests in a comment below , the job title in the original language ) plus explanation , rather than try to find the " closest equivalent . "
It 's important to remember that you 're negotiating a package , not a salary . In other words , there is a set of things you 're negotiating for , and you can play games in that space to get most of what you need . Limiting yourself to salary negotiation is tricky because salaries are often the most constrained part of the package ( especially in public universities in the US ) , and the one the chair/dean has the least power to change . So remember that your success at the job depends on your ability to recruit students , procure resources and bootstrap your research program . Which means you need startup money to pay students , lab space and equipment money as needed , teaching relief if that helps you focus on research , and so on . Throw these all into the mix when you negotiate , so that if you give up something along one dimension , you can try to parlay that into a gain along a different dimension . Also understand who you 're really negotiating with , and what powers they really have to offer you things . This can be found out by talking with your supporters at the department ( you must have some , otherwise you would n't have an offer ) and also folks at other institutions .
( 1 ) For the cover letter , should it end by saying something , In my experience ( ~ 10 years on hiring committees , starting my second year as hiring committee chair ) , almost nobody will read your cover letter . If you have something to say about your research , say it in your research statement . If you have something to say about your teaching , say it in your teaching statement . If you have something to say about your personal life , do n't . If the department does n't acknowledge receipt ( typically by email ) , it 's reasonable to call or email the department to double-check . But " waiting for your call " is unreasonably optimistic . Each department you 're applying to probably gets hundreds of applications for each faculty position . ( 2 ) Should the cover letter contain qualifications and skills like highly-motivated , fast learner etc ? Absolutely not ! " Motivated " and " fast learner " are neither skills nor qualifications ; they 're useless boilerplate . Of course you 're motivated and a fast learner ; otherwise , you would n't have a PhD and a publication record consistent with a tenure-track faculty position . Your actual skills and qualifications should be apparent from your CV , your research and teaching statements , and your recommendation letters . ( 3 ) Some recommends to mention potential drs from the department that the applicant can work with . Is this a good idea ? If Dr. A is working on topic T , and I want to work on topic T , then should I say that I would like to collaborate with Dr. A ? If yes , what is a good way to say it ?! Do n't just say it ; make a convincing case . Just dropping a few names into your research statement will be written off immediately as meaningless boilerplate . If your research goals really do converge with Dr. A 's research interests , that should be obvious from your larger research narrative , and it should be easy for you to draw specific , technical , and credible connections between your interests and Dr. A 's . Do not fake it . We can tell . ( 4 ) For the research statement , should I use " I " or " we " for joint papers , assuming that I was the first author ? " We " or " my coauthors and I " ; using " I " for joint work is dishonest . But this is a relatively minor issue .
Find out from the university when the degree is conferred . This may be before or after the ceremony ( it could be already conferred ) . ( Also see : <URL> ) If the degree has already been conferred , you can write that you have a masters degree ( the ceremony is irrelevant ) . If it has n't , write that you have completed the degree requirements , and expect the degree to be conferred on X date .
Small errors that do not affect the results or conclusions of the paper are normally handled through publication of a correction ( or erratum ) . This is handled by the journal editor , who will be in contact with the authors for confirmation that they agree as to it being an error , and provide for the exact correction to be published . The journal that published paper should have a policy on corrections , check it out ! Physical Review Letters 's editorial policies and practices state , for example : Errata . -- The Errata section contains notices regarding errors or omissions in papers previously published . Besides the standard Erratum , several special categories of documents may appear in this section . In the online journal , each of these documents involve bidirectional links between the original article and the document in the Errata section . The category of the corrective document is indicated in its title and in the link from the original article . The standard Erratum is a statement by the authors of the original paper that briefly describes the correction ( s ) and , where appropriate , any effects on the conclusions of the paper . Thus , what you should do is : Make double sure it is actually an error . Then ask someone else to double check it again . Preferably someone more senior , i.e. with some experience of academic publication . Write to the corresponding author , pointing out the error . Be nice , and make real sure not to assume to worst . You say " this is a pretty big mistake and suggests they have n't actually read the paper they referenced " : depending on context , it could actually be something minor like a copy-paste mistake ( pasting the wrong reference , when they meant another paper ) If you do not obtain a response , or they respond but do n't intend to correct the error , then consider contacting the editor . I can understand why , as an undergrad , you would consider contacting the editor directly without writing to the authors first . However , as long as you remain professional in your correspondence with them , I think it 's best to contact the authors first . It 's more polite , and they may actually be able to provide you with some explanation you have n't thought of . Contacting the editor before the authors is somewhat overdoing it ...
For an initial meeting , I would take an general idea of the kinds of things you 'd like to do in a particular advisor 's group , a sense of what the advisor works on -- you do n't necessarily have to have read papers in advance , and an open mind . That said , you 'll make a better impression if you have read a few recent papers , and have a few intelligent questions to ask . It will pique the advisor 's interest , and show your sincerity . As for coming in with ideas for a research project , this depends a lot on how the project will be funded . If you have your own fellowship and can design your own project , then you should definitely have an idea or two ready . On the other hand , if you will be funded by an existing research grant within the group , your choice of projects will be more constrained . One final note -- I would say that it 's definitely not required that you take a course with an advisor before considering them as a research advisor . If that were the case , I would have been on a completely different career path than the one I 'm on now , as I 'd be working for my fourth-choice advisor ( who was the only one I took a class with before choosing a research group ! ) .
You should always make sure your basic understanding is at a very good level in any research project , particularly in the sciences . An important part of science and mathematics is being able to communicate your ideas in very simple terms . I think Einstein said that " if you can not explain it simply , you do not understand it well enough . " If all you can do is prove things but not explain what the results really mean or how they connect to the basic components of your field , then you 're not really doing science or math - you 're only shuffling around symbols on a page . It 's a bit like a computer : computers can prove things about math ( automatic theorem provers ) , but would you say they 're doing math if they do n't understand what it is that they are doing ? All they do is shuffle symbols around and come to conclusions based on basic axioms inputted by the user . This is n't to say that you should n't pick away at the problem immediately . You should maybe poke around and get an idea of how things go but if you are put on the spot and asked a basic question and you ca n't answer it , you 'll look like you have n't done your due diligence . You 're always going to have some gap in your understanding , even at the fundamental levels , but that does n't excuse not having any understanding of the basics . Here 's another take : if you end up solving the problem you 're given , your professor might ask you to write up a paper on the work to be submitted to Journal XYZ . If all you can do is explain the steps you took but not connect it to the things the reader knows , your paper will be completely dead in the water and will likely get shrugged off . A good paper has good results . A great paper has a very good narrative with good results that is very clear and understandable . Even if you do n't write the introduction yourself , throughout the paper you will naturally connect results or ideas back to things others have done ( " Our approach relates to this work by [ authors ] in such and such ways , " or " Employing a common technique , we have ... " ) . If you do n't have a basic understanding of the things in your field , you ca n't make this connection for the reader ( which forces them to hopefully come to this realization themself ) . This is not a skill you should expect to have immediately ; it takes time to learn and hone this skill but it is an important aspect of paper writing . A personal anecdote/cautionary tale : I started on my current project a few years ago in undergrad . At the time , I had a very rough understanding of advanced mathematics . I knew enough measure theory and functional analysis to vaguely understand ideas and basic proofs but not enough to know what are acceptable procedures and what are not . I neglected the basics - not because of my own doing , but lack of proper supervision - and ended up too focused on my project . It 's a bit like putting blinders up : you wo n't have any understanding outside of your project and ca n't properly judge the validity of what you 're doing . I was rearranging integrals like it was going out of style because I did n't know that I could n't do that in my situation due to skipping the basics . I ended up with results but they were not acceptable proofs by any means . Since I was so focused on my project , I ended up not having much of an understanding of the basics and looked like a deer in headlights when people asked me about the basic , very technical details of the mathematics I should have been using . Since then , I 've more than made up for all of those deficiencies but had I not unintentionally neglected the basics , I would n't have wasted so much time ( read : years ) doing stupid things that were not valid at all .
Something along the lines that you persisted and managed to graduate despite that the life as you know it was being destroyed in a war-torn county . The hardships of war , hunger , constant fear for safety ( or whatever you feel like sharing ) gave priority to the survival . As the result your grades in the final years suffered . You are eager to continue your education in the safety of whereever you are applying , and ready to give it your all without the distractions of the war . The point you want to make is that you graduated during the whole crisis , which is truly impressive . Congratulations on that . It shows the character and persistence . Grades you can fix .
When you change job , you do n't erase your memory ( well , not in all jobs ) , nor do you all your responsibilities related to this previous job vanish . It is true that leaving a position creates certain obligations in the data you can retain , and how you can use non-publicly available information pertaining to your older institution . However , in the particular case of a reference letter , I do n't think it should cause trouble . Moreover , reference letters are confidential . Actually , I 'd go further than saying it should not be a problem . In fact , I think if you can honestly write him a good recommendation letter , it is part of your responsibility to do it . This responsibility is not to your former institution , but to the student and the academic system as a whole .
Virtually everyone gets rejected from at least one of the places they apply to . I have never heard of anyone who got through the process without getting rejected somewhere . I even got rejected from several places that were lower ranked than the ones I did get in to ! So no , one single rejection is not a sign that you are applying to the wrong level of universities . In fact , you should probably expect more rejections . Depending on the subject there can be 5-10 qualified applicants for each spot , so lots of good candidates are rejected every year . If you discussed what universities to apply to with the professors writing your recommendation letters , you are probably applying to universities of the right " level " . The sheer number of applications means that you will get some rejections anyway . With that said : if your are really set on graduate school , it is a good idea to apply to a wide range of schools on different levels .
You can certainly mention a professor and his/her research in your statement of purpose as long as it is genuine . This can show that you are a ) familiar with the school/the department and its faculty and b ) you have a good understanding of the field and your interests within it . There is certainly nothing wrong with saying ' One of the reasons that I chose this school is because Prof. X 's work on XYZ is very interesting , and I would love the opportunity to learn from him/her and his/her work . ' Do n't , however , try to name-drop for the sake of it . You should also make sure that you do a little research to make sure that that professor is actually still going to be doing work during your time at that school . It looks kind of bad if you say ' I really want to work with Prof. A , ' but Prof A is going to be on sabbatical or something like that . This kind of information is not always readily available . In short , do n't be afraid of mentioning a prof if you really mean it and are really excited , but do n't look up someone from each school you are applying to for the sake of putting a name in your paper .
I do n't think it is relevant to your applications . It was a short period , and many students take advantage of the summer break for such things as travel , time with family , gainful employment , volunteer activities . It would be different if you had had a break from your studies of a year or more . Best of luck to your family .
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
Because it 's a cover letter , I think it 's quite natural that you say a lot about you in it . That 's actually not to be avoided , because you want to give the addressee a good idea of your background , your motivations , your interests , etc. . In short , you want to show them who you are , so they want to work with you . This is a totally different exercise than usual academic writing . Now , regarding the redundancy of I , it is a matter of writing style . It probably would n't bother me much , but if you want to diminish it for some reasons , here are worthy alternatives : Instead of starting your sentence with I , just push it somewhere down in some sentences . That way , you avoid the pattern of I as the first word of every sentence . Looking at your group 's wide range of research , I must confess a certain attraction for your recent groundbreaking work on the correlation between <URL> . <URL> Use constructions that , while retaining the first person , shift from the subject pronoun to other cases : It has been my intention for a few years now to shift my research interests from pure psychology to experimental psychohistory , and I have thus taken in 2009 a post-doc position at the University of Trentor ( group of prof. Seldon ) instead of " I decided a few years ago to move to the field of psychohistory ... " . Similarly , you could say <URL> The standard techniques of academic writing ... introduce the pronoun once , then shift the discuss to avoid being the actor , e.g. using passive voice . During my thesis , I introduced a new data reduction technique called XXZ . This algorithm , when applied to large datasets , was used to univocally establish whether data was being manipulated . In particular , results obtained on the 2000 election showed systematic bias against a specific candidate , highlighting its power as a diagnostic tool for real-life applications . <URL> Be aware that there are downsides , though : most of these alternatives are longer than a direct sentence starting with I , which means overusing them could make you sound windy .
It 's hard to guess exactly what the authors of the advertisement meant . However , there are lots of technologies that the advertisement could be referring to , including Graphing calculators . Numerical and symbolic computation software ( MATLAB , Maple , Mathematica , etc. ) " Clicker " audience response systems . Lecture capture recordings . Prepared video clips for students to view outside of class . Learning Management Systems like Blackboard , Canvas , etc. . Systems for online discussion of the course such as Piazza . Computer based homework systems like WebWork , Maple TA , etc. . In evaluating candidates , I want to know what experience they 've had with these technologies and how they 've decided to incorporate them into their teaching . Most experienced instructors will have used at least some of these and have opinions about how best to use them . A candidate who ca n't talk intelligently about these technologies is probably lacking teaching experience . Someone who claims experience with these technologies and has the " wrong " opinions about how to use them will likely be seen as a poor fit for the position . Before you go for an on-campus interview ( or even for a telephone or skype screening interview ) , it would be a good idea to see what technologies have been adopted at the campus you 're visiting so you can be prepared to discuss this during your interview .
As a TT at a small liberal arts college let me just say that to gain tenure I have to do both . In my field this amounts to having five or six new articles or a book before tenure . There is a very large spectrum of liberal arts colleges and the top end ( figure top 100 ) all claim that research active professors are better able to teach up to date content in their field and to better demonstrate to their students why the field is exciting and worth studying . ( By ` all ' I mean I do not know of a counter example . ) At the very top end of the liberal arts spectrum you have schools that give their professors R1 teaching loads and more funding . The only thing they would lack are the graduate students . Sure at the lower end of the spectrum are places that only expect teaching . Then there are the community colleges which openly admit they are teaching only institutions but they acknowledge that their mission is distinct . Another section of schools I 'd suggest you could take a look at are the second tier state schools , places like CSU Pamona , or University of Central Florida . These are not flagships and focus more on teaching than R1s but you still have to be research active to get tenure . Next time you go to a conference , chat up those folks who seem to be pre-tenure and ask them what their institutions demand . The US is a country with other 4000 colleges and universities . They do not form a linear order from liberal arts colleges to R1 universities . So as always , the situation is more complex than you might think at first .
Here 's how it typically works ( at least in the U.S. ) . First , you should warn him that you do n't feel you can write a strong enough recommendation for him to get this job , and that you 're convinced he 'd be better off with another recommender . You should try to explain why , so he can learn why you think this position is not a good fit for him . If he insists that he wants to apply and has no other options for a recommendation , then you should try to write a supportive but honest letter , typically by taking your previous letter and strategically modifying it to fit this particular job . By " supportive but honest " , I mean making the best case you reasonably can under the circumstances , but being honest about any weaknesses and not endorsing him in any way you 'd regret . Often , instead of saying " I do n't recommend hiring him " you can instead say something with enough qualifications that anyone can read between the lines . For example , suppose an excellent teacher is applying for a job he simply does n't have the research accomplishments for . You can send a letter that comments in detail about his teaching and concludes by saying " Although Bob does not yet have any peer-reviewed publications , I 'm confident that his work in progress will lead to a publishable paper . When combined with his excellent and enthusiastic teaching , this makes him a good candidate for a faculty position that prioritizes teaching over research . " If you send this to a faculty search at a research university , they will read it as an automatic rejection , without your having to say so explicitly . ( Note that if Bob actually applies to an appropriate teaching position , then you should not send this text , but rather a more enthusiastic version with fewer qualifications . ) Of course you may not want to set up an automatic rejection , but rather just to make sure the hiring committee is aware of your concerns . Another possibility is to conclude by saying " Bob is in many ways a strong candidate for this position . My one reservation is ... " If the hiring committee agrees with you that this is a concern , then they will reject him , but at least you gave him a chance to find out whether this issue worries the committee .
Many ( if not most ) academic CVs have a section labeled " Service " that lists committee memberships , reviewing experience , outreach activities , and other university and community service . You could also reasonably include a brief " service statement " , as an addendum to your teaching ( or research ) statement , that explains those service activities ( and future goals ) in more detail . But keep in mind that you 're not describing who you are as a human being , but rather who you are as a potential colleague . The service activities you describe should have direct bearing on your suitability for a teaching job in a university mathematics department . So coaching your daughter 's robotics team could reasonably be included , but coaching her baseball team probably should n't . Also remember that your service activities are almost certainly less important than your record in teaching and research . " Service " should be the last section of your CV , and any service statement should be significantly shorter than your teaching or research statements .
end question
start question
What are the advantages and disadvantages of having multiple advisers ?
The answer ( as in case of most answers in academia.SE ) is it depends , often widely from case-to-case . Unless presented with an exceptional example , I would generally view having more than two advisers as a major hindrance - the perceived benefit of having another source of ideas is negated heavily by the communications overhead between them , and the scope for misunderstandings about their role , which might cause the student to be either overloaded in multiple ( possibly conflicting ) areas , or languishing without any significant guidance . The rest of my answer is based on the assumption that the number of advisers is 2 . What is the defined role of the said advisers - are they equally responsible for guiding the student towards completion of their graduate studies ( as I 've been told is the case in some European schools/research schools ) , or is one of them the principal guide and the other a co-guide ? The amount of time/effort invested by each would depend on their perception of how much they are actually responsible for the student 's growth as a researcher . As with most social interactions , it would help greatly if there is a good ( or at least professional ) working relationship between the 2 guides , as well as a healthy overlap of research areas - a new student might not be able to handle multiple research problems in completely different areas at the same time ( without affecting the time to graduate , or the quality of results ) . Assuming the student publishes with both of them independently , it would look good on her CV that she can produce publishable research with multiple established researchers . This could also have the side-effect of enhancing the student 's research network - as a lot of papers ( in CS at least ) have more than 2 authors , and often collaborating on an paper could lead to more papers/research done with the same set of persons in future .
You will probably never know the full reason , because departments are not quick to air their internal issues with job candidates . But here are a few possible reasons : The search was halted by higher administration . One possible reason to do this so late in the process is because of funding changes ( e.g. the funding for the position disappeared or was reallocated elsewhere ) . The search was halted by the HR department due to some violation of hiring practices . The search committee was unable to come to an agreement about who to bring to campus for an interview , or the dean rejected all the candidates before they were interviewed . Although this is less likely , someone who had planned to retire might have decided not to retire , or someone from another department may have been moved into the department ( e.g. for legal reasons to settle a complaint ) .
You 're not obligated to tell them . Whether you tell them or not would be unlikely to have an impact on your future either . They 're probably not going to track you down and find you , and would mostly use the information to improve recruitment in the future . Imagine if you told them you chose University X instead because you had family there and it was easier to secure housing . That 's a sound reason , and unlikely to cause any sort of mark in the off chance they were tracking you . I would try to avoid saying anything bad about the school , though .
Germany has had the model of the Humboldt ideals . Unfortunately , it has now become slowly eroded through the Bologna process of educational reform and unification in Europe . If you want details , these topics are important and influential and you should look up the terms Humboldt ideal and Bologna on the web . However , in a nutshell , the Humboldt ideal is about educating enlightened citizens , both in terms of expanding one 's personal horizon as well as contributing to society . It is a highly influential and ( in my opinion ) beneficial way of looking at university education . Developing the personality of the students is the foremost goal of this way of thinking ; for which , of course , the development of a skill set is an important , but not the only or ultimate component . Responsibility for the society at large is part of it , as well . Enlightenment means here that , of course , the individual can and should identify as an individual how to balance the different components . The " elite " may be implied here , but should not be understood as a privilege rather than a responsibility and duty . Ultimately , the ideal would be that every single member of the society would belong to this elite in their individual responsibility for the world around them . Of course , this is illusory in reality , but it is clear that this is the goal to aspire to . In short , being educated in the Humboldtian sense means that you understand the world around you , and you can meaningfully interact on things outside your immediate reach . For people who are not interested in anything but their immediate agenda , my question would be why they are considering themselves at all " students " at " university " . After all , " student " means " the zealous " ; and " university " is not by chance related to " universal " .
No , why should it ? Running out of copyright explicitly means a loss of a right . It does not mean the beginning of any additional obligation . Running out of copyright , however , means that anybody who already owns a copy may duplicate it and make it available under any conditions he chooses ( including making it available free of charge ) . Many university libraries do this .
Universities offer all sort of " benefits " to its employees . Some of these " benefits " do not have a monetary value ( e.g. , flexible work schedule ) . The benefits available to faculty are often different from the cleaning staff . Further there are differences in benefits between tenured/tenure track and adjunct faculty . I can only think of three benefits , that have a monetary value , for which there are differences between tenure track and tenured faculty Sabbatical : Some universities do not permit pretenure sabbaticals . It is often hard to differentiate if sabbatical eligibility is tied to tenure or time in service . <URL> provides different sabbatical benefits pre and post tenure . Housing Assistance : Some universities provide housing assistance ( discounted homes , mortgage assistance , loans , etc ) . Portions of the <URL> requires tenure . Parking : Some universities provide parking passes . <URL> provides reserved spaces for tenured faculty while other faculty and staff simply get a parking pass . In terms of perks that do not have a monetary value , this varies widely by department . Tenured faculty often get to be chair of the department ( which may or may not be a perk ) . Departments may also give tenured faculty priority in terms of teaching schedule , departmental and university service requirements , office space , and lab space . The sabbatical system , internal funding , and administrative support may be skewed in their favor also .
I believe that there are ( at least ) two main reasons for this : Law and business faculty generally have alternative job prospects that pay extremely well . That means that universities have to pay enough to compete with those alternatives in order to attract and keep their faculty . They both generally teach in professional schools that are not part of the main university ( at least in the US ) . Professional schools ( especially top ones ) usually have high tuition , high enrollment , and healthy donor bases ( due to the aforementioned high potential income ) , and therefore they have very strong revenue streams . They also do n't incur many of the costs that the rest of the university does ( e.g. sports facilities , dorms , financial aid ) . Together , this means that they have significantly more resources to pay their faculty with .
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
One of the hardest parts of remote collaboration is making sure everyone is on the same page . Agreeing on work flow in advance is critical . To me the most important thing is that everyone has a good understanding of the roles and expectations of the individuals . A good timeline , that is flexible , is also very useful . Agreeing upon software , programming , and writing style issues at the outset is also useful .
When I have a manuscript nearly ready to submit , I send it ( by e-mail ) to colleagues who I think would be interested in it . I politely ask them to read it and send me any comments they have . Sometimes they do , and sometimes they do n't ; it 's understood that there is not an obligation . Of course , some of them send me their manuscripts too , and they 're more likely to read mine if I have read and commented on theirs . The colleagues I send the paper to ( usually about 2-4 in number ) may include : Senior people who have mentored me Past coauthors and collaborators People I do n't know but whose work is essential to that in my manuscript People in the first two categories are usually willing to assist based on our existing relationship ; those in the last category are generally pleased to see their work being cited and built on . I do n't usually need very specific feedback at this point in the process . If I was concerned , say , about the correctness of some part of the work , I would have worried about that long before I wrote the article . Occasionally I may have a specific question about , e.g. , suitability of the manuscript for a particular journal . In that case , I would send the article to one of the editors of the journal or to a colleague who often publishes in that journal , and ask specifically . Any colleagues who provide substantial feedback will be acknowledged at the end of the paper . Providing this kind of feedback certainly would n't qualify one for co-authorship .
To expand on Yuichiro Fujiwara 's comment , " peer review " and " refereeing " are exact synonyms , and no differences at all are implied by the names . For historical reasons , some fields are more likely to use one term than the other ( for example , mathematicians talk more often about refereeing than peer review ) . Publishing practices also differ between fields in other ways , such as the length of the reviewing process . There might be a weak correlation with the use of terms like peer review and refereeing , since both issues are heavily influenced by which field you are looking at . However , I 'd bet that any correlations are small , and in any case this is not a productive way to investigate journal differences ( since knowing the field would tell you enormously more than just knowing which term the journal uses for peer review ) .
In my field the thinking is It draws attention to posters from conference participators . It provides encouragements to individuals ( students ) to make an extra effort It encourages discussion about " good poster design " The selection criteria is always focusing on good communication of good science , never one or the other . Since such awards are given only to students and there ids usually also a similar student presentation award both selected by a set of valued senior scientists , the award should be and is seen as a merit .
The responsibilities of a programme committee member and a mere reviewer could easily be the same , or differ . All depends on the particular conference/workshop setup . E.g. , in computer science/AI there the difference is mainly a result of the venue size . Large first-tier conferences , such as e.g. , IJCAI have a four layer programme committee structure . Here PC chairs , the top layer , govern the whole process from recruiting the various types of PC members , through conflict-of-interest handling , bidding on submissions , to notification and proceedings composition and publication . For such conferences the PC chairs recruit Senior PC members who are responsible for larger batches of submissions , or small sub-areas and report to PC chairs . For some conferences , the SPCs recruit regular PC members who in turn report to them and are responsible for the reviews . Regular PC members normally do the reviews themselves , but it 's relatively common that they sometimes " subcontract " the job to other reviewers they recruit . These lowest level reviewers would do the review and get credit too , but the actual PC member is ultimately responsible for the review and the discussions among the PC members . Upon completing the review and discussion phases , SPCs give final recommendation for acceptance/rejection and possibly write meta-review summarizing discussion to each submission . The PC chairs would distribute the notifications and handle the proceedings and programme schedule composition . Now , for mid-size conferences , or workshops the senior PC members layer is usually missing and regular PC members report directly to PC chairs and take over the tasks of SPCs for large conferences . The mechanics of sub-reviewing stays the same . For small-size conferences and workshops , there are virtually no administrative tasks left for the PC members , so they do just the reviewing ( possibly recruit sub-reviewers ) and the PC chairs finally decide about acceptance and rejection of the individual submissions on the basis of the received recommendations . What I describe above is regular scheme of things in " applied computer science " .
For most conferences , the primary costs are : Venue Catering Society fees Program and proceedings Keynote / scholarship travel sponsorship The price of these is wildly variable depending on the arrangements that have been made . At the low end , consider a conference using university meeting rooms , asking people to go out for lunch on their own , using volunteer labor and keeping program and proceedings electronic . This can be extremely cheap , on the order of a couple of dollars per attendee , even for a rather large meeting . When a conference meets in a hotel , the expenses go up like crazy . For a week-long conference in a major city hotel , the venue and catering expenses can easily run as high as $ 500/person . These are often required to be booked far in advance , based on the number of people expected to register for the conference , and there may be limited flexibility to change these numbers if attendance falls short . Hotels also frequently ask a conference to have attendees book in the hotel , and will ask for " insurance " from a conference in the form of a commitment to get at least a certain number of rooms booked and to pay for unbooked rooms if the conference falls short of that commitment . This can add thousands of dollars of expenses . These factors can operate at universities too , which sometimes demand high venue and catering fees even when their own professors are organizing . With an expensive venue , then , a conference 's organizers can thus get very nervous about whether they will have enough money to cover their anticipated expenses , if registrations are less than anticipated . This is especially the case if the conference has had difficulty meeting its expenses in the past , and may be in trouble with its sponsoring society as a result . Forcing people to register per paper is one response to trying to avoid this type of shortfall . Not only is there the fee , but if you 're registering a second time , you 're more likely to send a second person from the group , who will likely have their own hotel room . For a conference that may be facing a shortfall in its hotel commitments , a single registration easily can be worth $ 2000 in increased income and decreased hotel penalty . Personally , I still do n't approve : I think that a conference operating at such a razor 's edge would do better to take other approaches to trying to make up its budget shortfall . I can understand , however , why the organizers of respectable conferences sometimes choose to do it : it 's not that they are getting rich , but that they are trying to keep from going bankrupt while they make their venue rich .
I can not see any problem with this as long as no copyrighted material is accessible in such a way that it breaks the copyrights of the book . Although the outline of a book probably can be considered the intellectual property of the author ( and possibly the publisher depending on copyright ) , I doubt anyone would object since the purpose of writing a ( course ) book is to provide a product to support teaching of a specific topic . The structure of a book can often be the most logical way of presenting the material . The key issues is rather if you reproduce parts of the book such as providing the exercises on-line . As long as participants must obtain the material in the book on their own you should not worry . From this perspective it is no different from a normal university course ( where it is also illegal to copy and distribute material freely from a book ( or equivalent ) . So for an on-line course , you just need to be very careful with reproducing text or figures from copyrighted materials in ways that breaks the rules . You can also contact the holder of the copyright ( author/publisher ) to obtain the right to provide parts within the course . The success of this may depend on the system you use for on-line material and what file formats you use for distributing the materials . Such details will likely be made clear by the copyright owner if you ask .
You should ask your supervisor for a letter . Not having your supervisor write a letter is going to raise red flags . People are going to ask themselves , why is n't this candidate 's thesis supervisor writing a letter ? If you do n't have a letter , you need to answer that question . Unless there 's a very good reason to not have that letter , I think that it 's better to avoid the question altogether . The reasons you 've given so far do not seem good enough to me . You suggested that ( 1 ) there may be more appropriate letter writers and that ( 2 ) your advisor might not be up-to-date on your current research . I think these are not good enough reasons to not ask your thesis supervisor to write a letter and I think you can easily address these concerns : You should also ask your postdoc supervisor to write you a letter . Not doing so will also raise red flags for similar reasons . If there are other great letter writers , ask them as well . For the tenure-track jobs I applied to , each expected three or more letters . There 's room for everybody . You can prioritize the more important or relevant letters . In your cover letter , it is normal to list the names of people writing you letters and it is normal to list those names in the order that you want them to be viewed . You can also specify in the letter which letters reflect more recent relationships , closer collaborations , or relationships closer to the core of your current research efforts . It is not a critical problem if your advisor is not up to date on your current work . Presumably , their letter will talk the work that they know about and about your qualities as a researcher , colleague , and person that will not change . Also , you can point your advisor to or summarize the work you 've done more recently . I provided a copy of a draft cover letter , research statement , and teaching statement to each of my letter writers so that they could see how I was pitching and framing my work . I did n't do this because we were out of touch , but it seems like something similar would help address your concern .
Some of this depends a lot on field and laboratory , and I do n't know the customs of physics . As somebody who has dealt with this question in both biology and computer science , however , let me give you some thoughts : Since you are n't aiming for a fellowship , you 're probably going to be supported by a funded project of some sort . That means the PI you 'd be working for promised their funders they would get somebody do a postdoc-sized piece of work on Topic X . Their biggest concern is thus likely to be whether you are the person who can do that . Accordingly , when I 'm thinking about postdocs , the properties I 'm looking for are : Flexibility enough to shift from their Ph.D. topic to the topic of the project , which is pretty much guaranteed to be different . Autonomy , creativity , and maturity enough to tackle their part of the project without much hand-holding . Productivity and responsibility enough to deliver research progress at regular intervals . Formulate your letter accordingly , showing what you have accomplished , that you are capable of formulating a research vision , and that you have interests outside of your research vision . The goal is not to sell yourself , but to be interesting enough that it 's worth the PIs time to talk to you in person , which is where the real decision will be made . In fact , however , you are best served if you can skip the letter entirely and approach potential PIs in person at conferences or other meetings . Get introductions from your advisor if you can . Practice your elevator pitch ( explaining what you 'd put in a letter in just three spoken sentences ) . Speaking as a PI , a whole lot of postdoc jobs ultimately originated by PIs talking at a meeting and one of them saying , " I 've got this great student who 's graduating , and I 'll bet they 'd fit well in your lab ... " or the other saying , " I 've got this grant starting next year and there 's a gap I need to fill ... "
There 's no general answer to the question . It depends on the individual course . If the course is designed so that grades are earned for demonstrating achievement of a learning outcome , then there will be a strong correlation between having high grades and achieving the learning outcomes of the course . If the course is designed so that grades are earned for things that do n't demonstrate achievement of a learning outcome , or so that students can achieve a learning outcome but not have an opportunity to demonstrate it to earn a grade , then the correlation will be weak . Also , your general description of " learning a subject " may not necessarily be strongly correlated with the desired learning outcomes of a course . It 's possible to earn a poor grade for a well-designed course even after having " learned the subject " if the course has specific learning outcomes ( i.e. , " Students will know how to solve a certain class of problem , " " Students will have learned this particular skill " ) and what you are learning about the subject happens to be orthogonal to those learning outcomes .
In short : <URL> is the traditional measure of mean citations per year shortly after publication . It can refer to either the official Thomson-Reuters computation ( which has lots of problems ) , or other competing similar computations . <URL> attempts to improve on impact factor by using an algorithm like PageRank to more heavily weight citations from " better " publication venues . <URL> for journals is just the same as for people , essentially looking for the volume of consistently good work . The only large place I know of that applies this to journals is <URL> . All of these are subject to manipulation and gaming , all are highly field-dependent , and none are very good actual ratings of quality . Still , they can be used to get a rough sense of the significance of a venue that you are unfamiliar with .
Although I can not speak directly to the field of computer sciences , I can say that in social sciences any peer reviewed publications would be viewed positively on an applicant 's CV . At this stage in your career this shows you 're motivated , capable of contributing to academic work , and have some familiarity with the writing process . The fact is that many undergraduates may not have access to opportunities to publish in the field they hope to enter , but instead seek to gain research experience and publication opportunities with faculty who are willing to work with and train them . Many academic skills , such as writing articles , are transferable between disciplines , and working with these professors may provide you with strong reference letters when you do apply to graduate school . So long as this opportunity is not coming at the expense of something more directly related to your major , I think it could be a very valuable experience which could positively impact ( or at least will not hurt ) your future applications . As a final note , be sure that you are able to explain the project and your role in the project in future application materials and interviews . If this is outside your field of study , do n't be shy about asking the professors questions so that you have a solid grasp of the project 's purpose . The only time I have seen undergraduate publications backfire is when the person is unable to explain the work , and it becomes clear they did nothing but data entry .
end question
start question
How does a research masters work ?
Advantages of doing a research-based Masters ( e.g an MRes ) before the PhD : learn research skills explore your subject refine your research question get a big chunk of your literature review done in a structured setting work out if taking a PhD is really for you - whether you 've got the aptitude and the interest
You 've chosen a journal that looks like it is well suited to your background and topics . By itself , the length of your paper is not related to whether it is important or publishable . There are three things you can do to test whether your potential topics/papers are worth writing and submitting . First , read many articles in this journal , similar journals , and also conferences . You are n't just looking for articles on the same topic or technique as yours . Instead , you are learning about what constitutes a good research paper in your field . Based on your reading , write a detailed outline of your proposed paper ( s ) , and also an abstract . The second thing you can do is to write a version of your paper ( s ) as a " Working Paper " and then circulate them to peers or colleagues for feedback . You can post this to <URL> and post links on social media or mailing lists to get broader feedback . This approach has two advantages . You sometimes only know the value of a research paper after you finish writing it . And you 'll get the most useful feedback from people when they have a finished paper in their hands , as opposed to reacting to a concept . The third thing you can do , building on the previous , is to submit a paper or two ( each revised based on earlier feedback ) to a journal or conference , and then learn from reviewer comments if they reject you .
Should we accept that Yes . If somebody points out a flaw in your work , be thankful . They are giving you free advice . Do n't try to be right at all costs . Of course it 's awkward when people point out major flaws in your work when there is an audience , but it 's part of the game . If you believe you are right , defend your point using objective arguments . If you know the critique is founded , accept it and try to make the best of it .
Many schools will require you to take remediation courses if they do not feel you meet the course requirements for the graduate program . They will be fairly upfront about what they think you would need , but it will mean taking more Bachelors level classes at cost before being accepted to the program . In general I would show any additional work you have done to improve your programming skills , including code you have written . A lot of qualified people do not apply to top schools ( I.E. MIT ) because they do not believe they would get in . But I would not recommend focusing on any one school and instead find a few programs you like and apply to all of them . Some schools will allow you to take classes as a non-degree seeking student , which would provide both a way to prove yourself and also gauge the program and its suitability to you . I would check with the program to see how many credits they accept through this method though . As an aside , I am in the same boat . I majored in Mathematics with a minor in Physics but have been working as a programmer for the last three years . I am now looking into online masters programs in Computer Engineering or Computer Science .
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
I know of exactly one peer-reviewed research paper with no references at all . Mark H. Overmars and Emo Welzl . <URL> . Proceedings of the [ First Annual ] Symposium on Computational Geometry , 316 -- 321 , 1985 . Here is a screenshot of the references section : <URL> According to <URL> , this paper has been cited 29 times . So yes , it is possible , for the right value of " ground-breaking " , but extremely rare .
I would definitely contact the chief editor of the journal and place the evidence before him/her/them . Plagiarism should not be taken lightly . There is a tendency to be lenient when it comes to self-plagiarism of non-critical parts of the text , for example , parts of methods sections ( in experimental work ) . Regardless where one draws the line , copying sections of text verbatim from others is a clear breach to me . Anyway , it will be the editor 's job to pursue the matter after you made the point . If the journal belongs to a publishing house they may receive legal help to deal with the author . If the editor does not react and there is a clear publisher behind the journal it may be relevant to bring it up a level . If you have someone in your university working on copyright issues , perhaps at the library , then you could also talk to them . They may be able to provide further assistance and help evaluate the case .
Updated to address comments . If Project XYZ is simply a funding agency or entity that may have provided funds or materials but no intellectual contribution , then you use the phrase " We acknowledge Agency XYZ ( Grant # ) for financial support " or " Funding provided through Project XYZ ( Grant # ) . " For example , if your work is supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health ... " Funding for this work was provided by the NIH , Center for Work on Really Interesting Science ( # 1234567890 ) ... " If project XYZ has defined the research problem/scope , you could say " This research was inspired by Project XYZ " or " This research follows from Porject XYZ . " If Project XYZ is an institute , center , or other entity that worked with you on your project , then you use the phase " in collaboration with " . For example , if your computational model was run on at the <URL> , you might say : " This work was conducted in collaboration with the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center [ ref ] ... " Lastly , if the intellectual contribution from someone at Project XYZ was large , that person needs to have their name on your paper ( with placement in the order according to the customs of your field ) : Grad Student who did the work * , Grad Student who did less work * , Grad Student at Project XYZ # , Collaborating PI at Project XYZ # , Your PI * Affiliations :
You can certainly mention a professor and his/her research in your statement of purpose as long as it is genuine . This can show that you are a ) familiar with the school/the department and its faculty and b ) you have a good understanding of the field and your interests within it . There is certainly nothing wrong with saying ' One of the reasons that I chose this school is because Prof. X 's work on XYZ is very interesting , and I would love the opportunity to learn from him/her and his/her work . ' Do n't , however , try to name-drop for the sake of it . You should also make sure that you do a little research to make sure that that professor is actually still going to be doing work during your time at that school . It looks kind of bad if you say ' I really want to work with Prof. A , ' but Prof A is going to be on sabbatical or something like that . This kind of information is not always readily available . In short , do n't be afraid of mentioning a prof if you really mean it and are really excited , but do n't look up someone from each school you are applying to for the sake of putting a name in your paper .
I had the same problem with my MSc thesis which I will have to hand in this month : The topic was too broad and complicated , the supervisor gave me a topic which was actually supposed for another PhD student . So I failed ( will not get very good grade ) . But I dont think any conclusion can be drawn for my future work , my other thesis and seminars went all excellent . If you just failed on this one thesis ( and otherwise have good results ) and the people at the other lab like you , they will certainly help you so you will succeed . The supervisor is I think more crucial than the actual topic , because if you have a nice supervisor he will always help you and with the team together you can succeed .
There are multiple questions that remain unanswered here : Did you meet all of the deadlines for the admissions process ? Did the people who wrote your letters of recommendation send in their references on time ? Did the school promise you a reply-by date ? If so , why did you not contact them at that time ? Did you get an email confirming that the application was complete ? If any of those were missing , then it 's entirely possible that you did n't have a complete application -- in which case , the school is not necessarily required to do anything , because they do n't have a complete record to consider . Moreover , a lawsuit is a horrifically bad idea under the circumstances -- it 's far more time-consuming and expensive than anything you 're going to get back from the school . It 's a waste of your time and money ( unless they rather unlikely made written promises of admission , in which case they may be in bigger legal troubles than just having to return an admission fee ) .
This varies by program . In the US , in mathematics , " par " for a master 's is 2 years . In some PhD programs , this will cut a year off your time-to-degree . In others , no help at all . In rare cases , it will cut two years off .
In one of the coursework at my university , I submitted a very detailed project report done for the course . It later turned out that the work contributed some value to the field as well . Is it right to submit the report reformatted as a research paper ? So long as the results are novel and you meet the other necessary prerequisites for publication ( acknowledge main contributors as authors , acknowledge secondary contributors in acknowledgements , reference and discuss related work , meet level of technicality/significance required , etc. ) , I do n't see any problem of submitting course-work for publication , and if as you say the work has had some impact in the field , I think it should be encouraged ! Do we need to provide any special mentions to the coursework or any other related disclosure ? You should ask your professor or other senior staff member for advice , but I do n't believe any special mentions would be required other than what 's mentioned above . You could mention it as a footnote or as an acknowledgement if so desired . Also , if your work was ( even indirectly ) funded through a specific research grant , they may require acknowledgement as a condition of the grant . Again , talk to a staff member involved .
That you realize this is good , but the appropriate approach depends on lots of individual factors . The people who are likely to be able to give you the best advice are your professors/advisor . They probably know best where you are at and what is most important for you to succeed in their program . Also , informing them that you are aware of your deficiencies and are trying to make up for them should improve their opinions of you , and also make them more willing to help you succeed in the program . That said , here are some things that can help : start tutoring or TAing for lower level math/CS classes ( I first really understood eigenvectors when I was tutoring other students in linear algebra ) , going through texts on your own ( exercises are the most important ! ) , taking/sitting in on undergrad classes ( some of our grad students with weak backgrounds do this ) , typing up your own notes on this fundamental material , finding people ( students or faculty ) you can ask specific questions . Also : read up on the impostor syndrome ( on <URL> and <URL> , say ) . You may have it .
None . One good paper makes its author ( s ) look good , but does not make the university more or less remarkable ( either in term of perception by the research community or rankings ) . It takes a lot of good output ( papers , conferences , etc. ) for people to start saying " hey , that university has great research done in so many research groups , it looks like a great place " , and for whatever rankings to be affected . Unless by " good " you mean " outstanding " , not in the academic sense " quite okay but I 'm writing in hyperbolic style " but in the meaning of " exceptionally good ; clearly noticeable " . One groundbreaking ( Nobel level , if you wish ) discovery made at a single institution will help it .
An unstructured problem is one that does not have a direct solution already established : that is , it 's not immediately obvious how one gets from the problem statement to a working solution , or even if there is a solution . This is the standard for most doctoral-level research problems in STEM fields : if the problem is so well-defined that the strategy for solving it is immediately obvious , it is likely unsuitable for doctoral work , and a new ( usually more challenging ) problem should be selected .
I think now that i understand what the author of original post means to do , so please comment if i understood you correctly . Plan is to enter masters in math , try to get better GPA and then submit using only his new master diploma for PhD . If that is your intention , yes , that could work . As far as i know , masters program in USA lasts for one year . If you have time , will and funds to do it , sure , go ahead . You can get higher GPA and MSc in mathematics while learning something new in process . Other advice is to get your current GPA transcribed to european grade standard . Go to the websites of the universities where you intend to apply for PhD program and see if you meet minimum grade needed . Since there is n't universal grade minimum , you may find out that you qualify in one of them with your current GPA . Remember , GPA is not be all end all criteria . Personal experience , minimum grade average was 3.5 ( very good ) . When i applied they checked my grade average to see if i meet their minimum and they never looked at it again . It was mostly administrative criteria . Interviews had much more weight in their decision to admit me to PhD program . Hope it helps
This depends on where you are . In the US , this would generally not be too difficult , particularly if one uses elective courses at the bachelor 's level to take some of the courses in the " new " field . Here in Germany , it would actually be almost impossible to switch as you 've suggested . The reason for this is that the " prerequisite " for enrolling as master 's student in a particular field is usually taken to be the bachelor 's degree in the same field as taught at the university ! This is known as a " consecutive " degree requirement , and makes life very difficult for people coming from outside Germany .
Weight in academia is carried mostly by peer-reviewed research publications , published in academically reputable venues such as research journals , conferences , books with reputable publishers , reputable preprint servers , ... If you get these publications from industry research , you get academic weight . A famous example for prominent research in electrical engineering done in industry are the <URL> . Codes and operational manuals are not academic publications , and typically carry little weight . In order to get that , you have to publish academic papers about the codes and manuals , or publish papers about research results obtained with them .
While I largely agree with Ian 's answer ( ORCID might matter in the future , but does n't right now ) , I see one place where it may already matter and a reason why it should come to matter more in the future . Right now , there is a strong implicit presumption of the uniqueness of a scientist 's name , and all of the literature searches and citation databases , etc , of the world get rather confused when you have a person who either a ) shares the same name as other practicing scientists or b ) has a name that changes over time ( e.g. , marriage , gender identity change ) or is represented differently ( e.g. , transliterated ) in different papers . On this site , we have a number of good , difficult questions dealing with the problems that <URL> cause , which is particularly acute for academics in countries that do n't use the Latin alphabet ( e.g. <URL> ) . These problems will grow in importance as the number of practicing scientists grows and becomes more diverse , and as the duration of the readily searchable literature grows as well . In short : there is a rapidly growing need for something like ORCID that makes it easy to distinguish scientists without context-sensitive text mining . Whether ORCID is that thing , and how long it will take for it to be widely adopted and effective , are both open questions .
end question
start question
Are en-route masters in physics viewed differently from terminal masters in physics in the Canadian job market ?
My understanding is that an en-route masters is simply a masters awarded with an understanding that the person will also continue onto a PhD . I do n't think this assumption/understanding makes it any less of a masters . In other words , the masters is not conditional on work done in the PhD . My impression is also that the person would have needed to do several significant things to get the en-route masters , and the magnitude of those things is likely similar to the person who got a terminal masters . So , no , I do n't think en-route is viewed differently in general . Note that I am Canadian .
At least at the universities in Paris where I took courses , there is a strong distinction between the first and second master year . In the first year you still take general courses in a variety of topics , whereas in the second year you really specialise . Someone explained to me that this is a remnant of how it was a while ago : first 4 years of undergraduate ( which is now 3 years of bachelor , then the first year of the master ) , then 4 years of graduate ( second year of master and 3 years of PhD ) . I know that some of my friends in physics had something which could be called a research position at the master 2 level , i.e. they were integrated in the research group , doing some type of research , whilst not yet being PhD students . So no , it should not be a second master degree , it should mean that you are in the second year of your master .
I do n't think a Quantitative Finance program would be ideal preparation , given your undergraduate degree in Accounting . It 's overkill , meaning you 'd spend a lot of time ( and money ) to learn things that you wo n't need or apply to Business Analytics and NC State . Instead , you could assemble the necessary knowledge and skills though a series of undergraduate courses , and even some on-line MOOC courses . The basics : single and multivariate calculus , linear algebra , probability and statistics ( based on calculus ) , a basic programming course ( one of Python , Java , etc. ) , a mathematical programming course ( MatLab , Mathematica , R , or Python + NumPy + SciKit ) . To this base you could optionally add one of the following : Data Science MOOC , a Decision Science MOOC , a Business Process Management or Total Quality Management MOOC , or even a Data Visualization MOOC . These MOOC courses will give you some knowledge of how the basic knowledge is applied to business analytic problems .
Faculty do not ask and students do not tell what they wearing under the robes . Actually , I find that since graduations are in May , the robes are often swelteringly hot ( especially PhD robes ) in many parts of North America , so the lighter the clothes and the more sweat-resistant and breathable the better . Women can get away with wearing summer dresses . From what I can ascertain ( remembering the Do n't Ask/Don ' t Tell rule above ) , male students tend to wear khakis and comfortable dress shirts underneath . No need to wear long-sleeves if it 's going to be hot . Many students often change into other clothes for the receptions after graduation -- men into longer pants and a sport jacket , women don a light jacket or change into more formal attire . They often keep a change of clothes in their parent 's car or in their advisor 's office if the dorms are shut . tl ; dr : It 's your graduation . No need to be uncomfortable .
When you are evaluated as a job candidate in academia , the first thing people will see is your PhD . That will tell them that you know how to dig into a topic , get the background knowledge that you need in order to conduct the research you are interested in . The next thing they will look at is your publication record . Because of the peer review process , they will feel confident that if you publish in reputable journals on a particular topic , you know what you 're talking about . So if you 're sure you 're headed for academia , I think you will be fine just cherry-picking the particular courses you think will be most helpful for you in Environmental Policy . ( Although if you find that you 're , say , only one or two courses away from satisfying the requirements for the masters , then I suppose you might as well finish it off . ) Think of how many PhDs veer off in a different direction during the course of their career ! They do n't bother getting a new PhD in the process , because they already have one . You can think of the PhD studies as the apprenticeship to do research , and the PhD as a driver 's license which was issued in one state , but which you can use in other states .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
Economics is not my field , so my answer is based on what I 've heard from other people . Generally , it is preferable if the job market paper has a sole authorship or at least if it is co-authored by other graduate students . However , I have heard of people getting jobs even with a job market paper coauthored with their advisor . Since you have two other papers , and one with sole authorship , that will to some extent work towards eliminating any negative impression that the job market paper may create . However , ultimately it will depend on your potential employers and the practices that they follow . Keep your fingers crossed and hope for the best .
While essentially seconding StasK 's points , I 'd be inclined to make a stronger claim about the utility of looking at not-so-elementary physics . That is , in addition to all the " mechanics " applications of the 18th and 19th centuries , and Maxwell 's late-19th century electromagnetism ( which provided a huge impetus to ideas about vectors ! ) , many aspects of quantum theory focused attention on differential equations which have proven to be important examples of mathematical phenomena , in addition to applications to physics . This important-example-intensely-studied phenomenon continued with Bargmann 's and Wigner 's studies on representation-theory of specific Lie groups , which provided the backdrop for Harish-Chandra 's vast program . This specificity was in marked contrast to the " generalism " that mathematicians of the time were embracing , e.g. , Weil , Godement . I think it continues to be the case that physical considerations suggest very-specific examples meriting intense study ... which provide test cases for " purely " mathematical ideas . Witten 's ( and others ' ) relatively recent " physics " programmes have had a large impact on algebraic geometry ( moduli problems , mirror symmetry ) . Although I 'm also fond of the crypto application/motivations of algorithmic number theory , the breadth and depth seems not as great as the math-phys connection , although of course the elapsed time is much less than for math-phys . ( The optimization and math econ , and comp sci and category theory applications/connections are less familiar to me . ) Still , I must confess that I dropped an undergrad physics minor while studying mathematics , because it seemed dreary to me at the time . Partly this was due to my inability to see the physics ideas underlying the tricks to evaluate integrals , but perhaps partly due to the accidentally-dumbed-down viewpoint promulgated in the physics courses ... presumably aiming at " accessibility " . And , yes , there is a similar common risk/disappointment in mathematics courses that give up ideas for the sake of " tractability " . The risk is that it gives the wrong impression . ( Yet , yes , sometimes I 've been told that what seems to me insanely fussy detail-mongering is the very essence of mathematics , and that perhaps I insufficiently appreciate " proof " . )
In the United States there 's no formal pre-nominal title held by individuals holding a Master 's degree that I know of , so it 's very unlike Dr. Xxxx that one holding a Ph.D. , etc. might be addressed . In text , you would address such a person with a post-nominal suffix like M.A. , MBA , etc. . I 'm sure the logic is different among specific types of degree , where Esq. for Esquire is a post-nominal suffix for those in the legal profession in the US . To give you an example , though : If I hold an M.Sc. , you might refer to me as " Kendall , M.Sc . " if you wanted to address me in an email or letter , but I would realistically expect Mr. Kendall or what have you face-to-face . I should also add that courtesy titles like Esq. or Mr. , and academic titles do n't get used at the same time . Kendall , Esq. . M.Sc . would be wrong , as would Mr. Kendall , M.Sc . !
If you 're a member of the American Physical Society ( APS ) , I would recommend looking there first ( <URL> ) . Many universities will post here , as it 's the official representative of physicists in the United States . In addition , I recommend looking at university department webpages . If there is a certain region or state you 'd like to work in , narrow your search to universities there .
The link in your question lists many possible job opportunites of what applied mathematicians have . They all look exciting to me ( and possibly you ) and they are useful to human society . However , you probably will have some difficulties when you apply for those jobs . There are two things you do n't have yet : Math knowledge in depth ( you do n't have PhD in Math ) and domain knowledge ( you have no work experience ) . For example , How might disease spread in populated areas in the event of a bioterrorism incident , and how would it be contained ? . Do you have enough Virology background to devise algorithms to simulate this ? Do you have enough Math knowledge to solve the math problems behind the algorithms ? Another example , How can you allocate an investment among various financial instruments to meet a risk/reward trade-off ? . How much do you know about Finance ? How much do you know about quantitive finance mathematics ? You need to have at least one of them , either math in depth or domain expertise . Without either one of them , the best you can do is a research assistant or simply a programmer ( to implement the algorithms other scientists and mathematicians devise ) . My advice to you : either pursue a PhD in Applied Math or a masters degree in an area that suits your most interest .
I do not understand why you find " weird " putting manuscripts in preparation in your CV . In my field , it is perfectly normal and accepted , and I guess in all academia . This is the best way to explain what you did in the last years . It wo n't be strange at all , especially if you have talks on those results already , as you imply in a comment . These things happen ; sometimes papers take a long time to prepare , and a selection committee should be aware of this fact . It would look much weirder , in my view , if you do n't list them and write a long statement in the cover letter about the lack of publications . As they said in ancient Rome , " he who excuses himself unsolicited , accuses himself " .
The best thing to do is probably to contact the student administration of your university . They can make certified copies of your diploma ( and presumably also grade transcripts , etc. ) . You can also contact the Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs at <URL> , which are also authorised to make certified copies . However , it may be that " ordinary " photocopies suffice , if you tell them that you can show the originals later if necessary . You would have to check with the admissions office though , I do not know about the situation in the US .
My understanding is that an en-route masters is simply a masters awarded with an understanding that the person will also continue onto a PhD . I do n't think this assumption/understanding makes it any less of a masters . In other words , the masters is not conditional on work done in the PhD . My impression is also that the person would have needed to do several significant things to get the en-route masters , and the magnitude of those things is likely similar to the person who got a terminal masters . So , no , I do n't think en-route is viewed differently in general . Note that I am Canadian .
It is possible to get second masters degree in a similar or related field . Doing so might even help with getting into a top PhD program . That said , where you did your master ( s ) degrees is not the key to the kingdom or even the most important thing in your PhD application . Demonstrating that you are smart , hardworking , and excellent at research should be your goal . Another masters from a " better " University might help toward that end but it 's hardly the only or best way . Focus on doing excellent research , publishing that work in excellent scholarly venues in your field , and getting excellent letters of recommendation from people that are known and respected in the field . If you do those things , and if you also have good grades and test scores , you 'll be a strong candidate for any PhD program . I have seen people build that portfolio as an undergrad , in a masters program , as research staff at a university , or even in industry . What you do matters at least as much as where you do it .
I have half french kids and I have spent a lot of my life in France and in the Midwest . The answer is easy - culture . Americans love recognizing everything . Participation awards , so many awards that anyone that is pretty good at something will surely get one . My 4th grader at the time got a ribbon for 4th place in a race and his French grandmother said , " Why ? " She did n't even understand it . In France if you win something you are really at the top of your game and its a big deal . They generally do n't placate to keeping self-esteem high , even with children . Things are more regulated , committees generally mean something and there is n't a lot of duplication . Now I see this slowly changing in France over the years and it becoming more westernized . Your answer is just , different culture . England is a bit the same as America except they seem to have accreditation companies and societies that also allow you to " pay " for an award .
Universities , and departments , often view Masters degree students as something of a cash-cow , so there are far less funding options than are available to PhD students . That being said , there are a number of options you have before turning to family : There may be a limited number of TA/RAships available to Masters students . The benefits will depend on the university , but will likely include a modest salary , and will possibly include benefits like health insurance or tuition remission . You can work your way through it , viewing tuition as just a major life expense . This of course depends on the local job market . You can take on debt . Many people I know took out student loans in order to pay for their Masters . Whether or not this is desirable and economically justified is another question , but it is always an option .
The quality of the university and the quality of the theses produced are not perfectly correlated . You are just as likely to end up with a " nothing special " thesis at a Cambridge as at a Random State University . The criterion for awarding a PhD is the completion of an independent and original contribution to the field of knowledge one is studying . There is no requirement that it be " groundbreaking . " That said , given that the " top " universities also tend to have superior resources available to students , the likelihood that a " nothing special " thesis will be accepted by the advisor as suitable for a PhD thesis is also somewhat mitigated as a result .
If you go to top schools overseas , you should be fine . You can always explain your decision by saying that you needed to travel , help developing countries , explore opportunities . In my field , many Chinese schools have very high-tech requirements in their labs ! My old school ( not in China ) has unlimited funding ! So , research wise , it might be a good idea to travel for a year or two to establish a good working relationship with labs and schools . Many of the professors ( engineering ) I know will go to the Gulf region and work in Dubai/Kuwait for a sabbatical year or even as a visiting professor ( 1-3 years ) because of the good pay ( can get up to 140-160k ) , benefits ( paid housing , car , air tickets , schooling etc ) , no taxes , less stress ( no need to write proposals or get funding ) . As long as you keep your contacts in the US/Europe " happy " , you should be fine . I know some professors will hold international conferences and put their colleagues on committees ! I know some will hold 1-2 days seminars/workshops and invite their previous department chair as a keynote speaker or lecturer for crash-courses ( they make easy money out of this ) .
The main difference is that research MS degrees require a thesis , which describes the student 's research , while professional/taught MS degrees do not . There are several secondary differences as well . Professional/taught MS programs are cash cows ; their enrollments are generally higher , their admissions criteria are generally lower , they almost never offer financial support , and students are generally treated like cattle . Research MS programs generally have smaller enrollment , because the students require more individual attention , and therefore higher admission standards ; some research MS programs offer financial support in the form of assistantships or even fellowships . In many departments , there is an easy transition from a research MS program into the PhD program ; transitioning from a professional/taught MS program into a PhD program is almost impossible . Of course , these answers are very crude approximations . The actual difference will vary significantly between departments .
end question
start question
What are the downsides of publishing your statement of purpose on the Internet after you 've already been admitted to a PhD program ?
In general , I think this sounds like a great idea . I would further say that the same essential content is often a good starting point for your personal professional website . The only potential downside that I see is that in the future you might look back with embarrassment on naive ideas in your statement where your feelings have evolved over time . If you have enough self-confidence to be OK with with that , it 's fine : nobody will expect a mature researcher to believe all of the same things they did when just starting grad school .
I 've been putting off answering this because it 's really a legal question , not an academic question , and I 'm a computer scientist . In my one business law course , I learned that the essence of a contract is an offer and an acceptance . We have those . If I were in this boat , I 'd probably suck it up and apply elsewhere . If I really-really wanted to go to the school that first accepted , then rejected me , I 'd consider paying a lawyer a few hundred dollars to call the counsel for the university . My lawyer would say something like , " My client is damaged blah-blah and has cause of action blah-blah . However , we do not want to be unreasonable . All we want you to do is honor the offer you made in writing and later confirmed verbally . Um , and keep these circumstances confidential from anyone who could assign a grade to or otherwise evaluate my client . " There is a huge down side to doing that . It is that the circumstances are quite likely to leak out . Then one is facing professors who know how one was admitted .
Pros : If one supervisor gets <URL> , you still have a second supervisor who is familiar with your work and can thus give constructive comments on it , hopefully appreciate it and in particular evaluate it . Often , your supervisor is the only person at your university who is actually capable of fully understanding and properly judging your thesis and defense . If one supervisor turns bad or turns out to be bad and for example gives bad advice , makes ridiculous demands or even expects you to do questionable things , you can still turn to the other supervisor for advice or to have a serious word with the bad supervisor . If the relationship to the bad advisor goes totally awry , you may have the option to drop them and be supervised by the other supervisor alone . It depends : You may be expected to do more or less work . For example , if you are doing an interdisciplinary work and have one supervisor from each discipline , the supervisors may only understand and value the work you do in their respective half and thus think that you did not do enough . On the other hand , they may also overestimate the work in the respective other half and thus be more easily satisfied . You can benefit from the experience of both supervisors and learn something from one advisor that you can not learn from the other . Cons : You may be affected by disputes between the supervisors . For example the first supervisor may tell you to do something in a certain way and then the second supervisor blames you for it . If aspects of your work require input from both advisors , you may need to wait not only for one supervisor to have time for you but for two . This is in particular difficult , if you need to talk about something with both your supervisors at the same time . Some of the above obviously depends on the details of the relationships between your supervisors and the reason for the co-supervision . Thus , you can only judge yourself , if these points apply to your case and how important they are for you .
Pick someone else if it is n't already too late . The actual answer to your question is this : It is far better to have a good letter from a faculty member who is relatively unknown than a bad letter from someone they recognize and respect . In fact , the latter is probably the worst thing that could happen . If it is already too late , i.e. you have asked Professor X , he 's agreed , and you 've sent him the material ( which is probably an online link these days ) then work hard to make writing the letter easy . Put together the following information and send it fast : Include your student number . Remind him which of his classes you have taken , and when . How did you distinguish yourself in those classes ? How would you describe yourself ? What are your strengths ? What are your weaknesses ? He is going to have to answer those questions when he writes your reference , so the more details the better ; but these must be things your referee knows himself . What are some of your academic and nonacademic accomplishments that he may not remember ? What makes him particularly qualified to write a letter for you ? That is , why should the recipient of the letter value it over a letter from someone else ? This goes in an email that says , " Thank you very much for agreeing to write a reference for me on very short notice . I hope the following will be of use to you when you write it . "
For a purely course-based Masters , in which you do not do research , the research strength of the university obviously wo n't matter very much . For a Masters in which you do research and create a thesis , however , the strength of the research group is likely to significantly outweigh the reputation of the school . This is because the most valuable thing that you can have when applying either for a Ph.D. or an industrial job is a strong recommendation letter from a respected colleague . If all I know about a student is that they got a Masters from MIT or Berkeley , well , a lot of students get such degrees , and some are excellent while others are worthless outside of the structured environment of the classroom . On the other hand , if the student comes from Mid-Ranked U with a strong personal recommendation from somebody whose work I know and respect , then they are likely a much better prospect than the unknown from a high-ranked university .
Some conferences explicitly encourage ( or even require ) poster presentation of papers . In this case , there is typically an option to simply request that your existing paper also be given a poster slot . Thus , it may in fact be quite reasonable to seek to present in both ways , if the conference supports this . It would not , however , be appropriate to submit a separate poster paper that pretends to be different than the accepted paper . That would be self-plagiarism , and the conference organizers might look very badly upon you for doing that . I would thus recommend getting in touch with the poster chair and asking if they allow accepted full papers to have an accompanying poster as well . If so , that 's great , and you probably do n't need to submit anything more than a formality at most . If not , then accept that there will be no poster and do n't submit anything !
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
Do n't do that . Everything related to reviewing is confidential . You will certainly upset some editors if you reveal your identity to the authors without the editor 's permission . ( Remember that the authors usually know who was the editor . Perhaps the editors did not want the authors to know that they asked you to review the paper ? ) More generally , there is nothing to gain by doing this , and everything ( = your reputation ) to lose . You do not want to do anything that someone might interpret as a violation of the confidentiality of the peer-review process . ( Even if you had both the authors ' and the editor 's permission to publish this information , others might not know that . )
A Ph.D. program is about research . Have you done research ? If not , how do you know you want to study for a Ph.D. ? It is your responsibility to seek out opportunities for research . Protestations that your professors were not open to communication are not likely to be viewed positively by an admissions committee . If you 've had some research experiences , have you considered asking those you worked with for a recommendation letter ? If you have n't had any research experience , that will make it significantly harder to be admitted into a Ph.D. program , no matter who writes your letters . And if you have n't been inspired to seek out opportunities to get involved in research , that would make me wonder whether you will truly enjoy a Ph.D. program . Going to a Ph.D. program " by default " or because " that 's what everyone is doing " is a terrible idea ; you should only join a Ph.D. program if you are passionate and excited about doing research , because that 's what you are going to be spending most of your time doing in a Ph.D. program , and that is what Ph.D. programs are designed to prepare you for . So , you might also want to do a little bit of soul-searching to figure out whether a Ph.D. program truly is the right direction for you . If it 's not , it 's much better to find out now rather than after spending several years in a Ph.D. program . It is acceptable to have letters of reference from a mixture of your undergraduate and your masters university . People would probably ask questions if all of your letters were from your undergraduate university and none were from your masters university . That might make the admissions committee wonder : What were you doing with your time at the M.S. program ? Why did n't you seek out opportunities to get involved in research and other activities beyond coursework ? Is there some hidden story ? ( For instance , did you completely alienate all the professors in your M.S. program ? Or , do you have little self-drive to do research ? Or , maybe you have little experience with research , and thus no idea whether you are good at and enjoy research , and thus little basis to judge whether a Ph.D. program is a good fit for you . ) That said , the most important thing is to have letters from people who know you well , and who know well how to evaluate candidates for Ph.D. programs . So , which professors ( or other established researchers ) know you well and can best comment on your research ability or research potential ?
Posting questions is ethical , the issue is with appropriate credit and potential collaboration . I would say that most answers will be directions to published work that covers your question , if the question is about problems already solved . In this case , you just have to reference the books or papers that you used . If it turns out to be an open question , it probably wo n't be answered in a simple post on internet sites . In this case , in the best scenario , you could find people that will collaborate with you in a more permanent way , till you both solve the issue and , eventually , publish a paper .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
Have a look at this excellent memoir by a recent CS PhD : <URL> Although written from a CS perspective , many of his experiences transcend disciplines .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
I do n't know if it 's legal ( it could depend on what counts as fair use , for example ) , but I would n't be concerned . I do n't see any likelihood that this will harm you . It 's possible that they asked the journal for permission to reprint the abstract , but I 'd guess they just grabbed it from the web . The " journalists obtained a quote " stuff may be intended to make it look like a press release or news article , rather than a reprinted abstract . One positive side effect is that this makes it clear that the publisher is quoting you describing your work , rather than that you chose to publish an abstract in this venue . I do n't know why the publisher would compile these volumes . They have no academic value whatsoever , but it 's easy to speculate about motives : If these volumes are assembled by programs scraping the web , then the publisher only needs to sell a handful of them to make a profit . With thousands of volumes available , they can presumably find a few suckers who will pay for one , or perhaps even careless librarians they can sell subscriptions to . Maybe the volumes are used for content farming , to try to mimic genuine content and thereby attract web searchers ( so the publisher can sell ads or otherwise exploit these visits ) . They might also be used to create the illusion of academic respectability for the publisher , by creating a big catalog full of books that look reasonable at first glance ( but not at second glance ) . It could be someone who is genuinely trying to perform a useful service and simply does n't recognize how useless this is . If this bothers you , you could bring it to the attention of your publisher . If they did n't authorize the use of the abstract , then they 'll decide whether they can or should do anything about it .
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
In my field the thinking is It draws attention to posters from conference participators . It provides encouragements to individuals ( students ) to make an extra effort It encourages discussion about " good poster design " The selection criteria is always focusing on good communication of good science , never one or the other . Since such awards are given only to students and there ids usually also a similar student presentation award both selected by a set of valued senior scientists , the award should be and is seen as a merit .
Asking on math.stackexchange often does the trick , but I wonder what the ethics involved are . For instance , if someone provides a complete answer , and the result turns out to be integral to the paper , should I offer them authorship ? If someone else made an integral contribution to your work , it seems appropriate to offer them coauthorship , yes . You go on to say : I 'm not talking about a result that is novel in itself - i.e. it would not be considered as a contribution to mathematics . The result will be an application of standard mathematics to a particular engineering problem . I see what you 're getting at , but still : if you did not have the knowledge to write the paper , then asked someone for help , then based on their help you can write the paper , then it seems that they deserve to be offered coauthorship even if what they provided was from the perspective of their discipline completely routine and well-known . One example that springs to mind is the <URL> : this is a famous ( and , in my understanding , rather important ) law of genetics whose mathematical content really does seem to amount to : if p + q = 1 , then p ^ 2 +2 pq + q ^ 2 = 1 . The history of this is not what I had assumed it to be : it is not a collaboration between Hardy and Weinberg ( Weinberg was a German physician who had independently discovered the law at about the same time ) . Rather Reginald Punnett was having trouble defending Mendelian genetics against an argument of Udny Yule that dominant alleles would weed out recessive ones and thus genotypic frequencies would not remain stable in the population . Punnett brought this up to ( the great analytic number theorist ) G.H. Hardy who happened to be his cricket partner , who duly submitted a letter to the journal Science . As the wikipedia article points out , Hardy makes his take on his " contribution " pretty clear , e.g. in the phrasing " a little mathematics of the multiplication-table type is enough to show ... " It is interesting that this is not called the " Hardy-Punnett Law " ( though there are <URL> , which seem to my inexpert eye to be pretty much the same thing ) . One striking thing about this example is that the mathematics here is really trivial : it is hard to imagine any mathematician ( or engineer , etc. ) who would not have been able to answer the question . Of course , just because you offer someone coauthorship does not mean that they will take it . Most mathematicians I know are not interested in being coauthors of papers in other disciplines for which their contribution was purely mathematical and is regarded by them as " trivial " , " well-known " or both . If someone declines coauthorship then it seems largely agreed upon that you can go on to write the paper by yourself and include a clear acknowledgement of their contribution .
The following answer is based on my understanding of what it means to organise a symposium in a conference ( i.e. , commonly a conference session of about 60 to 120 minutes with around 3 to 8 talks all with a common theme , where the chair is the one to invite and arrange the talks and often provides a more general introduction to the talks ) . Obviously , I 'm not talking about the more mundane task of merely chairing a session , which can be as simple as you being the designated person that ensures that each talk keeps to time . You can build relationships with the other presenters in your session . If you are organising a symposium , then you will be contacting other possible presenters who you think may be attending . This often provides an excuse to connect with people you may only know through their research . For people you already know well , it can provide an excuse to catch up at the conference , which in turn can flow into research collaborations or other opportunities . You are likely to get more people to your session , and those that come may be more interested in your topic . If attendees see that your session is all about your topic , then people interested in your topic are more likely to attend . In contrast if you present an individual paper , it may get lost in a more general session . Chairing a session can help people see you as a person active in the topic . Chairing a session can be something you put down on your CV , performance review , promotion application , grant application , etc. . It 's generally not a huge thing . In many , but not all , fields , conferences are more a means to an end . In these cases journal articles and grants are more important . That said , chairing a symposium that you organised does show some academic leadership that would count for something .
How should you cite ? There is a format for citing web references for nearly any citation style . In the <URL> Last , First M. " Article Title . " Website Title . Website Publisher , Date Month Year Published . Web . Date Month Year Accessed . In <URL> Author , A. ( date ) . Title of document [ Format description ] . Retrieved from Website You may leave out the author field when it is not possible to retrace the original author ( as described <URL> ) When should you cite ? If you were to refer a material that has sufficient information to be given credit for your work , then by all means you ought to cite it . But first , try to find the roots of the idea , if such idea has been published elsewhere before this web-page was published . On-line content is highly susceptible to contain plagiarized content . See if you could locate the original source . If found , cite the original source instead .
I think the first question is , what does " slack off " really mean ? Many professors do change their priorities after tenure for a slower paced approach to their work more in line with their own intellectual values . Many things that might be perceived as " slacking off " in a pre-tenure professor actually do have value and are much easier to pursue post-tenure , e.g. , dedicating more time to students and teaching rather than research , or taking a slower pace to try to figure out an angle on deeper and harder to address issues . But let 's assume that our hypothetical professor is just saying , " I got mine , and I 'm going to do the absolute minimum hereafter ! " Here are some of the non-firing consequences : Not getting grants , it will be hard to have students . Their professional prestige will plummet , and anything they do want to do will get harder . They may get stuck with unpleasant scut-work tasks for the department , and will have more responsibilities foisted on them because " they have the time " that their harder working colleagues do not . They will not get promotion to higher academic ranks , nor the accompanying pay rises . Some people may actually be comfortable with this , and having a person who 's given up ambition and embraced a comfortable position as the organization 's reliable clean-up detail can actually be a good thing , as it takes those tasks away from others who have more ambition . But what if the slacker professor really does n't care , and does a poor ( but not quite enough to be fired ) job at all the tasks they are assigned by the department ? Well , every organization has ways to make a person 's life hell without firing them . In the next departmental reorganization , the slacker professor might find themselves getting moved to a small lightless basement office , the administrative staff may ignore requests for assistance , colleagues may simply treat the person as a pariah . Few people last long in an actively hostile workplace , and it may be harder to fire a person than to make them quit ...
end question
start question
In PhD admissions , if a correspondence is opened with a prospective student , is it common for a professor to just stop replying ?
As a faculty member , I try to respond to all prospective students but many times the questions are too vague , tautological , or impossible to answer : Will I get in ? Impossible to answer . Will you work with me if I get in ? Tautological . If you are in my field of study and you get in , it 's likely because I want to work with you . But I do n't want to say yes because that may be misread as saying that we will accept you . What are the strengths and weaknesses of your program ? Not easily answerable , self-serving if I deem my own area strong and likely to insult faculty in the areas I deemed week . Tell me more about your research . Too open ended . My CV is online . I do n't mean to sound harsh but questions that can be easily answered are the most likely to get responses . Faculty do welcome e-mails from prospective students , especially those in our fields . When you get 150 + applications , it might be easy to miss someone in your specific area , so a personal message saying that you are applying is always welcome ( especially early in the semester -- Sept or Oct -- before things get crazy ) . Questions that are n't answerable on our website are also welcome ( for example , not all department websites list which students are associated with which faculty ; asking about our team members in those cases is welcome ) . If you pique our interest ( and we have the time ) , we may ask for further info from you -- for example , a paper you wrote or other writing sample . While I try to send a simple " thanks " ack message to these responses , I may be asking for something in November that I wo n't look at seriously until February with the other application material . So do n't take the lack or brevity of acknowledgement to mean anything significant . Note that we may not want to send an e-mail prematurely closing down discussion as we may feel that this is rude to an applicant who may have more questions . So we are in essentially a typical asynchronous communication hang condition . That being said , I do often wish that I could respond in http status codes :
Good PhD Advisors ( tm ) would first of all talk to the student about the issue . Large-scale depressions need to be properly treated and respected . The important thing is to find out if it is the academic work that causes the depressions and to take counter-measures if it is . Now if the depression lasts , is properly treated and puts obtaining the PhD at > 90 % risk of failure and all possible measures have been taken to help the student ( both on the professional level and as far as applicable and feasible , on the personal level ) , then the student is wasting time in academia . And nothing is more depressing than that . So a Good PhD Advisor ( tm ) would help the student with establishing a new working life that makes use of the degrees already obtained as much as possible . This is basically the best the advisor can do to pave the way to a happier life for the student . I would n't call that " firing " someone .
Yes and no . Student status does not lead to reduced taxation in Germany ( that should hold for non-locals , too ) . Instead , low incomes and scholarships are not subject to tax , which is probably what you are referring to . The maximum amount for scholarships before they are subject to taxation is said to be higher for non-Germans , though . As a student , health insurance is also cheaper . You are unlikely to get the cheaper health insurance as a PhD student as well . Depending on the state in which you do your PhD , you may or may not be allowed to enroll as a PhD student , so you may lose benefits such as cheaper food in the student canteen . Other than that , see the links provided in the comments to your question by Wolfgang Kuehne , as the taxation situation is very much dependent on how your PhD studies are funded . However , being subject to taxation and full-fee health insurance is not necessarily bad , as if you manage to find a 100 % paid scientific employee position ( which is not uncommon for CS ) , you will see that the net income is actually quite ok - even if you take the higher accommodation cost in Munich into account .
It depends totally on your status , and what exactly this collaboration entails . You say " working as a staff under one professor " . If you 're on a short-term contract ( say , post-doc ) , then it 's probably not okay to do independent research on something completely different . You were hired on a project and it 's unlikely that you have any significant time left for something else . On the other hand , if this new collaboration is related to your project and you involve your professor in it , it is okay ( and he will welcome this initiative from which everyone involved benefits ) . To the above , there are a few exceptions : People who just arrived usually have some unfinished business with their previous institution , and they are given a bit more leeway in finishing it : revisions to make to papers on track for publication , conference attendance , etc. . People who are leaving due to their contract ending have to get involved with other projects to get a new job . They have to go fishing around , and this sometime requires a bit of extra work . Finally , if your activity on the side is quite unrelated to your main job , and you manage to do it on your own time without prejudice to your employer , you may do so . Some people write books , some get involved in open source software unrelated to their employment , etc. . If you 're working as an longer-term staff researcher in someone 's group , then it is expected that they respect your academic freedom . To a reasonable extent , you are free to engage in new collaborations with other people , and not necessarily involve your group leader .
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
The question , although reasonable , seems hard to answer in general terms . Programmatic change is generally not done by individual faculty members in a department , but by groups and/or committees of them , in confluence with the department Chair/Head . Many programmatic changes do not " go through " the Dean -- in particular " day to day " business usually does not -- but those involving nontrivial financial changes usually do . For all but the smallest colleges it is rare for individual faculty members other than the Head to have substantive conversations with the Dean about such things : again , it would be better if they went through the department as a whole and/or the Head . When it comes to financial outlays that must be approved by the Dean : I 've seen plenty of instances where the Dean approves but " just does n't have the money , " so I would have to think that even mild disapproval of the initiative would sink it pretty thoroughly . Perhaps the most useful thing I can say is : look at where the program is now and look at where it was in the recent past . If you are really unhappy with the current position or the perceived trajectory of the department , then you should not count on being happy with it in the future ( no matter who the Dean is ) . Conversely , if those look reasonably good to you , talk with the faculty and see how they feel about the future . If there 's some important change coming around the bend , I hope they will let you know . But it is more likely that being in the department for the next ten years or so will be roughly like having been in the department for the last ten years or so . The Dean does not reside in the department , so unless s/he is actively at war with the members and interests of the department , some disagreement in the overall vision need not affect the actual working life of a professor in the department unduly . By the way , the bit about the Dean " may leave in the next 5 years " sounds way too vague to take seriously . Maybe s/he will and maybe s/he wo n't . If s/he does , maybe the next Dean will be better or maybe worse . It is very hard to plan for the future with regard to this kind of thing : honestly , I probably would n't even try .
I 'll tackle the easiest side of the question first : bringing nothing should not create trouble . If you are clearly expressing your thanks for the invitation , both in written before you arrive , and in person when you meet the guy , noöne should take offense . On the other hand , bringing a gift is fine too , but : It should be tasteful and suitable for any taste : no sake , no unusual ( by US standards ) food ... unless you know him well enough . It should not be terribly expensive : people like the attention , but they do n't actually care so much about the gift itself . Keep it simple , that way it can not be understood as a bribe . Not academia-related , but still useful to remember : make sure it passes customs ( I had my French gift confiscated from me once ) . I usually bring stuff to colleagues who host me when I travel to other places , if only because it gives a starting topic for smalltalk ( something which I 'm not very good at ) in a future occasion .
I do n't know about for-profit universities , but the practice at " good " US universities is generally as follows . Before being eligible to graduate , the student must submit a copy of the dissertation to the library and to ProQuest . By default , after being processed , it is then immediately available to the public from both sources . ( In some cases it might not necessarily be available online , or might require a fee , a visit to the university 's library , or an inter-library loan request . ) The student may be able to request an " embargo " , in which case access to the dissertation 's text is restricted for a period of time . For example , this could be used if the student intended to commercially publish the dissertation or related material . At my PhD institution , this period can be up to 2 years ; any longer embargo requires the special approval of the graduate dean . Even in such cases , I would expect that the library and ProQuest would still show the dissertation in their catalogs ; they just would n't allow access to the text . In your case , " embargo " sounds like the only possibly legitimate explanation . But if the student graduated several years ago , or if the university library and/or granting department can not confirm the dissertation 's existence , I would <URL> . ( Maybe NSFW ) .
Let me answer this question from the perspective of our school . If a school does things differently the answer you 're quoting might be very appropriate , but not in our case . Our admission decisions are made by our department , and essentially everyone is on the admissions committee - we share the load of evaluating applications . So , there could be great benefit of talking to a professor ahead of time . If one faculty member strongly desires a particular candidate , that student will generally get admitted , assuming they meet our qualifications . ( Note that , as a small school , we have enough capacity to take more students than we do because we do n't get tons of qualified applications . Also , we almost always have TA funding available for qualified students . But this really varies from one university to another . ) So , this establishes that , at some schools , talking to potential advisors ahead of time can be very valuable . The interest of working with a particular advisor can also ( and should ) go into the personal statement . I read so many personal statements that you can tell are completely generic , with different school names copy and pasted in . So , when someone says something specific about my research area , I take notice , and I think other faculty do too . The real issue is that I get so many requests from random students to look at their CV . Many of them have very little connection to my work and are probably mass-emailing professors . This should be avoided . @Anonymous ' answer has the right idea here . A few months ago a student contacted me with a list of publications and a precise statement of interest about my work . We exchanged a few e-mails and I looked at his work . Another student tracked me down after a talk at a conference and talked to me in more detail about the work . These were both appropriate ways to contact me that may benefit the students in the future .
Assuming that you 're not in a field where it 's " strictly alphabetical order " ( like economics ) , the question of which position is more important depends on what stage of your career you 're in . If you are a beginning academic -- a PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow -- then the first-author publications are most important , as these will show you taking an active and leading role in your research . As you move up the chain , however , and reach more senior positions , having the last-author credit becomes more important , as now you 're showing your leadership role in directing projects . You do n't want to be stuck in the trap of being a " junior " partner in research collaborations , with the senior PI getting all of the credit for the work .
You ask about " stick together " . This is probably not an ideal idea . Generally , in a conference , you want freedom of action . Going with your mother may induce you to " talk to the known " person whenever you are unsure ; i.e. you talk to her whenever you are not sure how to approach people - the notorious " escape route " - but this is exactly what conferences are not for . When I went to my first conference , I made a point to talk to as many people as I could . At the beginning , it is quite a leap of faith . But later you find , it is fun , you get to know people , and you get to know new research directions and ideas . Sometimes it feels difficult , but remember : all you people have one thing in common - the topic of the conference . You are very unlikely to go wrong starting a conversation about that . If you are unsure how to start , start with people which look like they are alone at the conference , and probably a bit lost . They will be grateful to get somebody to talk to ; you may meet interesting colleagues ( do n't think that , because they are alone , they are not good scientists - good scientists may not be good at socialising ) , and notch up a good deed , to boot . It is fine to take your mother to social events and the like , but I recommend that , if she joins the conference , say , because she is interested , that she stays mostly in the background and does not send signals of " supervision " to others or - even more importantly - to you . If you can keep that balance , then , by all means , bring her with you .
The top universities often have a lot of reasonably obscure funding options . For example with the University of Cambridge - if you go through the steps at <URL> they list all their funding options , you 'll see for Physics there are fully-funded scholarships such as these that might be of interest to you : Leslie Wilson Research Scholarship ( # 17,427 per year ) Winton Scholarship ( s ) in the Physics of Sustainability Thalmann Bequest ( covers EU fees only ) Schiff Fund ( upto # 20,000 per year ) Gulbenkian Studentship ( specifically for non-UK nationals ) <URL> The equivalent website for the University of Oxford is <URL> and it reckons 35 Scholarships were found for a new student from Belgium studying Theoretical Physics ( DPhil ) so I 'm not going to list them all here !!! Best of luck !
There are always exceptions to the rule , but there is still a rule . Asking a like question in the U.S. creates uncomfortable reactions , and usually denial that classifying people or countries or ... is not possible ! , as you notice in reply to your question ; and this is similar at Academia SE . That all said , I 've studied in Germany , France , and the U.S. , and spent about half my life in both Germany and the U.S. By and large , all your original questions should be answered " Yes , yes , yes , and yes . " The main reason lies probably in rules that apply in most colleges - you are held to live in university housing , while sharing a room with a stranger for a year or two , in many cases hundreds or thousands of miles away from your hometown . Even when attending universities that , for space reasons , ca n't have housing on campus ( e.g. , Columbia in Manhattan ) , you will usually choose ( if only for rent price reasons ) a university provided off-campus dormitory type facility . This would have been terrifying for young , shy me , but has some very good consequences in that , by and large , Americans learn to deal with imperfect living accommodations , and to get along with people you have little in common with ( my first room-mate was just back from a Mormon mission ) . Even when I lived in a dormitory at my undergrad alma mater , I had no room-mate , and close to no contact to the other dormitory residents . There is also a tendency to use college years as the years you go craaaaaaaazy , which is accommodated by the many campus universities which often look like a large park ( google Berkeley , or CalTech , say ) . I 've seen a guy run around campus naked , covered in peanut butter head to toes , as part of his campaign to become the football mascot ; that mascot ( costume ) was ' kidnapped ' by the rival university ( which led to some pompous administrative reactions ) ; one day each year Freshmen caught in a particular spot were supposed to be kissed ; and the school band occasionally mooned the opposing team , and performed other ' look how crazy we are ' acts . Things have . I think , gotten more Puritan in recent years - I am fairly sure the weird annual kissing tradition stopped . But it existed as recently as about 10 years ago . As you 'll know from your campus , that is a far cry from typical European experiences . My undergrad campus , as an 18th century castle built to resemble Versailles , had ample lawns , and a good amount of parties ; but the events mobilizing students were the frequent political demonstrations which pulled tens of thousands of students to the castle and the surrounding streets . Finally , giving a good , entertaining lecture is valued much higher in the States . This is a good thing : all the professors that truly impressed me I met in the U.S. . As part of this , lecturing outside happens , but is not common . The world is getting smaller every year though : Europeans teach in the U.S. , then go back to Europe - and vice versa ; and the Information Age removed barriers that used to be high . So obviously , the stiff Dr. Unrath no longer teaches in Germany either , and I 've had classes outdoors there too .
Affiliate faculty are common in many university departments . This indicates faculty who have a departmental home ( faculty line , voting rights , tenure and promotion line , office space ) but for a variety of reasons are given courtesy appointments ( sometimes called in the USA as 0 FTE appointments ) in another department . This may be because they teach a crosslisted course or occasionally sit on doctoral committees of the other department , or occasionally just for the academic lulz ( ie , they requested an affiliation and there was no reason to deny it ) . Affiliate faculty rarely occasionally ( depending on discipline and university ) serve as chairs of doctoral committees and similarly are rarely/occasionally ( depending on discipline ) given students in that department to supervise . Their ability though to sit as members on committees is useful if you were to want to do a project in geophysics ( in this case ) but otherwise you can ignore them . Note that this is different from faculty with dual appointments where their faculty line is split ( 0.5 FTE in one department , 0.5 in another ) . They have voting and advisory rights in both departments . TL ; DR : Do n't worry about affiliate faculty . Focus on the core faculty and their strengths when making decisions .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
I do n't have experience with philosophy , but I ca n't imagine this part of admissions is too different . It 's pretty common for students to have one or more letters from faculty they have n't had classes with in the past year , so no that 's not a problem . ( In fact , sometimes it happens with all the letters , if the student takes time off -- e.g. , see : <URL> ) What 's important is that each letter writer should have something meaningful to say about your preparation , talent , attitude , performance , work ethic , etc. . Also , depending on the circumstances , it may be very natural for you to continue to have plenty of interactions with this professor over the next year or so whether or not you take another class with her . That said , you should get letters from some people you 've taken in your 4th-5th year ( particularly master 's classes if possible ) . The main reason for this is you want recommendations which can discuss your performance in more advanced classes , which is presumably what you 'll be taking .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
Typically at larger " more prestigious " institutions , Professors must have their PhD to teach . It has been my experience that some smaller institutions will allow MS holders to teach undergraduate students - but your mileage may vary . As an example , a friend of mine has currently taken over a Computer Science department at a small institution and only has his Masters . While they would prefer a PhD holder , they can not find one to take the job . So , technically , yes - it is possible . Although you may not find yourself at a top-level institution .
Should I speak with the professor of the course myself about this ? I 'd recommend telling the student you ca n't do it , and mentioning to the professor that you were asked but turned it down ( to avoid any rumors ) . There are massive issues here : Being paid extra compromises your ability to grade the student 's work . It looks too much like a bribe , and the fact that the student will presumably stop paying you if the tutoring is ineffective ( as measured by grades ) creates an ongoing incentive to grade leniently or supply inappropriate degrees of help . Even if you feel you can avoid bias , the apparent conflict of interest is so strong that other students will almost certainly be upset . Think about it this way . If the extra money does n't matter to you and you have enough time , why not help the student for free ? The fact that money is changing hands at all indicates that the money matters to you ( as it would for most people ) , and that is evidence of dangerous incentives . It could look like you are extorting money from your students . This is the flip side of the first point : in addition to your incentive to offer too much to those who pay extra , you now have an incentive to offer too little to those who do n't hire you as a tutor . Some students always grumble about how unhelpful their TA is ( regardless of the facts ) , and you really do n't want them speculating that your supposed unhelpfulness is intended to pressure them into paying for extra tutoring . I 'd bet this is a major violation of university rules . Of course you 'd have to look into your own case , but I 'd be shocked if any university allowed course staff to accept paid tutoring from their students . I 'd be wary of asking the professor whether this is acceptable . For most questions , asking ca n't hurt , but here the ethically questionable aspects are so strong that asking whether it is OK could look bad . If you ask , you should be sure to make your understanding of the ethical issues clear , to avoid giving the impression that you think it 's fine and just want to check whether the professor has any objections . If the student needs a tutor , I 'd recommend pointing him towards official university channels . For example , perhaps your department maintains a list of students who would be willing to offer tutoring . The important thing is to avoid any appearance of conflicts of interest . Recommending hiring your friend instead of you is better than accepting the job yourself , but it could still look awkward . ( Students might wonder whether you were receiving a commission or kickback from your friend , or whether securing jobs for friends was enough of an incentive to influence your behavior . )
Under normal circumstances , faculty should never yell or shout at a student . However , faculty are also human beings , and there is always the possibility that under emotional strain , they can lash out at a student . I will admit to having been guilty of this once as an advisor , when a student came into my office for a discussion about his research , and made some statements that betrayed a total lack of awareness of what he was doing ( and this was a " veteran " graduate student who should have known better ) . In the context of teaching , students have reason to expect that the faculty member should not shout at them . However , it is unreasonable to expect that any disciplinary action would be taken against a faculty member for a single infraction .
end question
start question
Citing a collection of work ( i.e. literature review ) by 1 citation ?
Do not automatically cite everything X has cited . You should only cite a paper you 've read , and it will be assumed that you have read everything you cite . Author X could have made a mistake , misunderstood something or deliberately misrepresented something . Whether it 's worth tracing back every reference cited in X 's paper depends why you 're referring to it . If your paper describes an alternative model and the differences can be traced back to , for example , the data sources you 've used , then you should go back to them , read them and cite them ; ditto if your paper is a critical review of X 's model . If you 're simply using X 's model out-of-the-box you do n't necessarily need to go back and pick over every source for every parameter estimate .
You can get a list of researchers who have Google Scholar profiles and have identified themselves with the field , ranked in order of total citation count by searching for researchers in that field on Google Scholar , via <URL> . That 's not quite the same thing but will give you some of the answers you are looking for .
It does n't really matter that the author gave you " unrestricted rights to use any portion of their article " without the need of citing it . We , the readers , want to know that you 're using it . Because I have all the rights to do this , would this be considered plagiarism ? Yes .
If the two papers are already written and submitted at the same time , I do n't see why not . You are right about the upsides : making information easier to find for the reader . This is one of the purposes of citations ! The only small addition I would make is that you should submit a copy of B along with A ( and the other way around ) , so the reviewers can evaluate the need for this citation ( as they do with " regular " citations ) . And to end on a practical note : this will probably no inflate your citation count anyway . You submit your two papers at a time , then let 's say A is accepted before B . So A is published with a reference to " B : F. Poloni , submitted for publication " , which wo n't be counted in citation databases . Then when B comes out , it will feature a proper citation to A ( either in full , or through DOI if A does not yet have full citation information ) , and this citation will be included in databases .
First , you need to decide if you find the plagiarism charges credible . Assuming that you do ( the material at the link you include certainly looks damning ) , then you certainly should not give any citation to the plagiarists . But that still leaves a dilemma : if you ca n't read the language of the original work , can you honestly cite it ? To think about how to solve this , let 's return to the principles of what a citation actually accomplishes : A citation justifies an assertion in your work A citation gives appropriate credit to the related and supporting intellectual work of others A citation gives readers links to follow in learning more about the subject . If this reference has been helpful to you , then the original author deserves citation on the basis of purpose # 2 . That does not , however , support purpose # 1 or # 3 if neither you nor most of your readers can read the language . The ideal solution would be if the original author has material with similar content , but written in English , which you can cite instead . Switching citations like that still fulfills all the criteria . What if there is no appropriate source in English by the original author ? If you can verify that the original work really does contain the parts that you find useful ( e.g. , via online translation or a friend who speaks the language ) , then cite the untranslated original , fulfilling purpose # 1 and # 2 . Then , since this is textbook-level background material , there should also exist some non-plagiarized English works that are appropriate background to cite : find them , and add them in as well , strengthening purpose # 1 and fulfilling # 3 .
Such a section usually is n't required for papers in my field , but you should probably put something like " Joe Smith moved from The University of Bobtown to ACME , Inc. during the preparation of this manuscript . "
There are two separate issues here , which must be dealt with individually : From a perspective of copyright law , you must make sure that you can obtain the right to reproduce the table at all . From a perspective of scientific ethics , quoting a table is exactly like quoting a passage of text or quoting a figure . You simply need to make absolutely certain that it is clear that the table is being reproduced from somebody else 's publication , and why it is more useful to the reader to reproduce the table rather than to provide a shorter summary of its contents ( e.g. , if you will be discussing elements of the table in detail ) . I would recommend stating that the table is a reproduction in two different places : In the caption of the table itself ( e.g. , " Classes of frobozinator , reproduced from [ Cite ] " ) In the text where you first refer to the table ( e.g. , " Let us now turn to a more detailed discussion of frobozinators , as guided by the taxonomy developed in [ cite ] . For ease of reference , the table of classes from [ cite ] is reproduced in Table 5 . " )
A systematic literature review is never a bad thing . At the worst , you have a large database of literature that you can cite in future work . as well as a feeling for where the " low-hanging fruit " might lie . It will also give you a framework on which to build and grow your literature collection over time . So whether or not you are able to publish it , a literature review is a good thing ( within reason -- do n't spend six months doing nothing but reading literature papers ! ) .
Although far from perfect , <URL> is one citation-based indicator often used to quantify how quickly a field or journal is moving . It basically looks at how long a paper takes to get half of all its citations . So for example , a fast moving field might have a citation half-life of 4 years , whereas a slower moving field might have a citation half-life of over 10 years . In the Journal Citation Reports you can see these values for each journal . Of course , there is the question of what exactly this means . For example , I believe fields like statistics and mathematics have much longer citation half lives , perhaps because seminal articles remain important . Understanding citation half-life is also important when you want to compare impact factors for journals across fields , or compare citation counts and h-indexes across scholars .
If your work should be compared to a software tool , then you should compare it to that software tool . Actually comparing , however , can be tricky for a couple of reasons : Closed commercial software often hides its workings , such that it is difficult to tell how it actually operates . Live software projects are a moving target , and features today may be gone tomorrow . Thus , for example , if you were comparing a contextual text search to the methods used by Google , it would be very difficult to do that just in a " related works " section because their methods are hidden and constantly changing . Instead , you 'd need to take experimental data on its behavior in some period ( or cite somebody else who had ) . For this reason , whenever possible it is generally preferable to reference a paper about the software rather than the software per se . Most significant academic software will have an associated website with a section on " how to cite this " or a list of associated papers ( e.g. , <URL> ) , which will give you appropriate sources to cite in your discussion . If there is no such citation available , however , or if the existing citations are not appropriate , then you can cite the tool directly : there are established conventions for citing software tools . I also sometimes cite both a key paper and the live tool , when the tool has expanded well beyond the associated literature .
Do not automatically cite everything X has cited . You should only cite a paper you 've read , and it will be assumed that you have read everything you cite . Author X could have made a mistake , misunderstood something or deliberately misrepresented something . Whether it 's worth tracing back every reference cited in X 's paper depends why you 're referring to it . If your paper describes an alternative model and the differences can be traced back to , for example , the data sources you 've used , then you should go back to them , read them and cite them ; ditto if your paper is a critical review of X 's model . If you 're simply using X 's model out-of-the-box you do n't necessarily need to go back and pick over every source for every parameter estimate .
The process of finding the intersection of the references in a given set of papers is known as <URL> and was first proposed by M. M. Kessler in 1963 in a paper that sadly remains <URL> . Kessler was thinking about doing this for pairs of papers but of course you could do this for an arbitrary number . What might also be interesting would be to look for the set of papers reachable by following citation trails backward in time through any number of steps . I am unaware of any on-line tools that perform this type of comparison for you , though it would not be hard to build such a thing if you had access to a big enough citation graph .
The facile answer is you do n't stop searching the literature . Even as the review evolves , you should be including new references if they are noteworthy in addressing questions within the field . This process should continue as long as you are working in the field of the problem . Of course , from a practical standpoint , you do need to select a cutoff . There should be a reasonable point in time in which you 've set the outline of the review , and decided on the main topics and questions to be discussed . At that point , it would be fair to set aside adding more references , and stick to what 's been published . However , you should continue to monitor the field , and if further revisions or updates of the text are necessary , then you should include the papers published in the interim as part of your updates .
Cite their manual The links to the manuals seem to appear at the reference sections of the respective Wikipedia pages .
The more common problem across multiple sections of large courses taught by several different instructors is content drift , not grade drift . At my institution we have three General Chemistry I sections , and the distributions of A 's , B 's , and C 's among the students does not change significantly depending on which of 6 people teach the course . The distribution of D 's and F 's does vary , however . What is more troublesome to us is that some instructors will cover 8 chapters , some will cover 9 , some 10 , and so on . However , if you really want to minimize grade drift , then do the following , which will also eliminate content drift : Coordinate the class - same textbook , same syllabus , identical assignments , exams , everything . Agree ahead of time on a common grading policy , including cutoffs , curves , grade disputes , etc. , and enforce it uniformly . Teach from a common outline so that all sections get the same material in the same week . Meet frequently , including at least one meeting before the class starts . Grade equitably , which may seem difficult , unless you do the following : Professor A grades all of Assignment 1 across all 4 sections . Professor B grades all of assignment 2 , etc. . Better yet , hire one person ( a grad student maybe ) to do all of the grading for all 4 sections .
A number of people have correctly told you ( I can see the article ) that this is a collection of mathematical puzzles , rather than a research paper . So let me tell you a little more about this type of article . Martin Gardner is considered by many to be the biggest popularizer of recreational mathematics in the 20th century ( perhaps ever ) . For 25 years ( 1956-1981 ) , he wrote a column for Scientific American called <URL> . Many of his columns have been collected into books ( such as <URL> ) . Some other well-known examples of similar writing include that of <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
ISI Journal Citation Reports ISI Journal citation reports might give you some useful information ( your university may have a subscription ) . It allows you to browse citation reports by subject category ( i.e. , discipline ) . It includes things like impact factor , total counted citations , total articles in the focal year . You can then click " view journal summary list " which will give you an overview . For example , here is sample output for psychology in the 2013 JCR : Of course , this only includes articles in journals indexed by ISI . Publish or Perish Software More generally , you might want to check out <URL> . It is free software for Windows and OSX that provides a way of searching Google Scholar particularly suited to bibliometric analysis .
Your institution ( for example its Harman Science Library ) and many others have the database product <URL> . Precisely the alert criteria that you described , and more , are available through that product . The selection of journals covered in its flagship collection , Web of Science , is curated with the goal to cover all of , and more than , the core literature of all scholarly fields , naturally without attempting to cover all journals in existence . Alerts in Web of Knowledge can also simultaneously search up to a dozen other collections including Medline , depending on your institution 's subscription . You can see the collections in the subscription that is available to you by choosing the " Select a Database " tab . You can browse and search <URL> .
You are correct in that the total time will first of all vary between journals and fields but also slightly over time . I am chief editor of an international journal in the environmental sciences . The time each reviewing editor spends on a paper with our journal can be broken down as follows : Must scan the paper upon receiving it for assigning reviewers ( probably takes an hour , maybe less ) Assign reviewers ( does not take much time but can be drawn out over time when reviewers decline to review ) Read reviews carefully and provide authors with guidelines on what to focus on ( probably takes a few hours ) Carefully check the revisions and decide on the faith of the paper ( takes a couple of hours at least depending on extent of revisions ) If the paper goes to major revisions you need to go through steps 2-4 again If the paper is accepted then spend maybe 15 minutes to half an hour formulating a suggestion for final decision ( depends on what might need to be written ) This can be summed up for one paper as probably more than half a day . Then the question is how many papers you are requested to handle per month/year etc. . You can then easily multiply by the number of papers to get a reasonable idea of the total time you will need to spend . To add to this , you will need to act whenever a paper arrives , so you are expected to be more or less on call all year . Most journals have systems for indicating when editors are away but that only works for assigning new papers ; if you have started the process you will have to see it through ... and keep chasing late reviews and delayed revisions . So although I can not give you an idea of workload , you have some tools to figure out what will be involved . Knowing the number of papers you are expected to handle is the most important statistic to figure out . Then depending on your field , you may have a sense of whether my estimates for scanning and reading materials are reasonable . I am sure they will vary depending on discipline .
Your strategy sounds sound to me . You can not read the papers from end to end . You need to weed out they papers you will possibly need in your review with as little effort as possible . Title and abstract should be enough . Once you have done this you should be left with a bunch of papers that are likely to be of use to you . While you have looked through them you must also consider how the material can be organized . There are many ways of doing this , chronological order ( boring ) , thematic order ( are there subfields ? ) , contradictions ( are there compeeting ideas ) etc. . The point is to try to get the information organized . You need some form of organization fo the papers so that you know how you will treat them in your review . Once you have found all papers you think you need you can start assembling the information into your text . It is at this point you can start reading them in more detail . It is still not necessary to read every detail . you need to focus on the background to the different conclusions drawn . The goal of the review should be to provide a new perspective on the field you have chosen so your own familiarity with the field ( papers ) is key . Try to collect as many as you can ; not all will be used .
end question
start question
How should you respond to your teacher who can not help you with a recommendation ?
" Thank you , I understand . " ... and then let the subject drop . Also , consider that the expression you say may not have been sadness that the professor did not have time , but discomfort with having to say no to a request in person . In addition to possibly being true , " I do n't have time " is also often used as a standard face-saving code for " No . "
Edited heavily based on further information provided by OP If you are going into industry , or pursuing a Master 's , it may hurt you in the short term A Master 's degree is mostly course work . It 's too short for you to create a body of work that stands on its own . The quality of the courses largely determines , consequently , the quality of the Master 's . Prospective employers may use an institution 's reputation as a heuristic/proxy for the quality teaching . Attending a less prestigious institution will make it more difficult to get interviews . Not being able to attend the bigger names also means you miss out on their alumni networks . Create a compensatory professional network that overcomes these limitations . Most Master 's in CS programs have a semester-long project . Make an impressive project and shop it around . This is a good way to build rapport with potential employers .
I do n't have experience with philosophy , but I ca n't imagine this part of admissions is too different . It 's pretty common for students to have one or more letters from faculty they have n't had classes with in the past year , so no that 's not a problem . ( In fact , sometimes it happens with all the letters , if the student takes time off -- e.g. , see : <URL> ) What 's important is that each letter writer should have something meaningful to say about your preparation , talent , attitude , performance , work ethic , etc. . Also , depending on the circumstances , it may be very natural for you to continue to have plenty of interactions with this professor over the next year or so whether or not you take another class with her . That said , you should get letters from some people you 've taken in your 4th-5th year ( particularly master 's classes if possible ) . The main reason for this is you want recommendations which can discuss your performance in more advanced classes , which is presumably what you 'll be taking .
" Thanks for the opportunity " is almost always appropriate and welcome . As far as " apologetic " goes , I 'd think on why the goal was n't reached . Some research projects are known to be long shots before they 're begun and failure , while obviously not desired , is not an unforeseen outcome . Sometimes outside events beyond anyone 's control torpedo things . If this is the " flavor " of your situation , then I do n't necessarily think abject apologies are called for , though you can certainly commiserate with others involved on how things turned out . Sometimes research just does n't pan out , and good research supervisors understand that you ca n't hit if you do n't swing . On the other hand , when I 've been part of projects that failed in whole or part due to things I did or did n't do , I 've tried to make sure the supervisor involved knows that at least I learned from the experience and that I had an idea of how I would do things differently in similar circumstances should they arise . Really , this is a valuable response in either case . Especially , though , if you hope to have future research opportunities with this supervisor , I 'd make sure this is understood .
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
I have no direct experience with statistics programs , but I know of no reason to think they differ from math programs in this respect . Assuming that 's the case , letters of recommendation are absolutely critical , at least in U.S. universities . I agree with the person who told you they practically are your application , and I 'm mystified by how someone could tell you they make no difference . ( I wonder whether it 's someone who has never served on an admissions committee or was educated in a very different system . ) It 's true that just about everyone gets what might appear to be good letters . The issue is n't whether they say bad things about you , but rather how strong they are and how compelling a case they make . I 've certainly seen many cases of letters written by the same person that differ enormously in their effect , even though they are all nominally positive . The third piece of advice you received in no way contradicts the second . It 's not enough for a letter just to include flattering comments about you . It needs to make a compelling case for why you will be successful in statistics , written by someone who knows exactly what it takes to succeed in this field , has seen other strong students to whom you can be compared , and has a reputation to protect that will keep them from exaggerating or trying to manipulate the admissions committee . A senior statistician is the best case , but a junior statistician or a mathematician may also be able to do a fine job . A letter from a chemist will not be helpful , and a letter from a professor of literature , no matter how enthusiastic it is , will hurt your case ( by demonstrating that you have no idea how the application process works or that you could n't find anyone more relevant who thinks highly of you ) . Exactly what is required depends on where you are applying . At the top departments , you need letters that make a very strong case indeed . Even outstanding students will be rejected , and you need letters that set you apart from the others . At much lower ranked departments , it might be possible to make a favorable impression based largely on grades and test scores , but even then you 'll still need good enough letters . ( The bar will just be lower . )
Why almost all students answer ' Yes ' ? The host country is not looking to accept immigrants when allowing students to come pursue degrees on education visas . Each country has their own system , standards and procedures for allowing immigrants in the country , and if you appear like you 're trying to skip that by entering as a student they will deny your student visa application .
I am aware of no University that automatically does anything . That said , most Universities , have policies in place to protect their reputation . At Cambridge , both <URL> and <URL> have almost identical policies which makes me think there is an underlying university policy that I can not easily find . To quote Griton 's policy : Additionally , the University has a number of sanctions for behaviour impinging on the image of the University , while the most serious breaches , including all criminal behaviour , will be referred to the local police . Basically , Universities should be reporting any criminal activity to the local authorities . They also have the right to follow their own policies , of which expulsion is a possibility . Universities like to protect their images ( e.g. , the recent sex offence scandals in the US ) . So what the University will do may depend on if the victim of the crime was another student and how vocal the sides are .
If the instructions were only given orally , and not recorded in written form that is globally accessible ( either in a printed syllabus , or an online forum ) , then you do n't have documentary evidence of the instructions being given . If this is the case , I would follow the standard university procedures , if there are some available , governing this situation . If there are none , then For this offering only , and only in the case where no printed instructions were given , I would allow students to take a make-up exam . On the other hand , if there is documented evidence of your policy , then you should follow the policy as it 's given . In any case , however , it 's always a good idea to allow " documented " reasons ( for example , illness , court appearances , schedule conflicts if exams are scheduled outside of regular time slots ) to be excused , with a clear policy for what will happen ( students can take a makeup exam ; other grades are reweighted ) .
This is indeed a weird question , though not an uninteresting one . Fundamentally a name is a pointer to a person , of a formalized and official sort , but of course for every person there are multiple phrases that point to them . Any article byline gives a mapping to the set of objects named , and the idea that perhaps this function need not or should not be one-to-one is a very curious one . I do n't know a general principle to invoke from which to deduce the " injectivity of authorial bylines " , but multiple names pointing to the same person would be highly nonstandard and powerfully confusing to many . I 'm not sure what to make of the fact that your example of a name change is motivated by a sex change . Name changes are common occurrences for people of all genders , and the percentage of name changes which are motivated by issues of gender identity and/or sex changes is very small . The largest percentage is surely when people ( not just women , though still more women than men ) get married , and then comes people who have moved from one part of the world to another where their name is difficult to pronounce , written in a different alphabet , sounds like something undesirable in the language of their new home , and so forth . Also papers published in one language are often translated into another , with the effect that e.g. many Russian authors are known by several moderately different names in the anglophone academic community . Adding a clarifying note that say that multiple spellings point to the same person could be helpful . In <URL> the byline is " Yuri G. Zarhin ( Zarkhin ) " , which is perhaps the closest thing I 've seen to the practice you 're asking about . However , there are nuances in your question that suggest the sex change example is not accidental : you actually mean to consider deeper issues of personal identity . In other words , what if beyond changing their name , someone considers themself to actually be a different person ? I get this for instance from What happens if Jane never worked on the project , can she be the author or does it have to be John ? The obvious answer is " What are you talking about ? Jane Doe and John Doe are the same person . So of course Jane worked on the project . The fact that the name ' Jane ' was not applied to this person while she was working on the project is totally irrelevant . " However , it could be that Jane feels that she is really a different person from John . Maybe she arranges [ illegally , perhaps ; I do n't know how this works ] to get a new social security number and otherwise systematically denies and delinks her new identity from her old one . In that case it could be meaningful -- even critical -- to her that Jane did n't work on the project , rather John did . However , though Jane 's perspective is a highly interesting one , it is not going to hold up in the practicalities of an academic career , as she presumably wants to regard John 's training and credentials as her own . If she tries to make a CV of Jane Doe 's work only , she is going to at best confuse everyone and more likely shoot herself in the foot . It would be worth hearing from a transgendered academic [ I am not one ] for more nuances about this . My understanding is that the above exigencies essentially require them to explain carefully in their CV that they have changed their name from John Doe to Jane Doe and thus can not professionally behave like they are two different people . If you are including the identity " John Doe = Jane Doe " anyway , then if it has deep personal significance to you to list yourself as John Doe on a paper that you worked on while you were John Doe even though you now sign all your papers Jane Doe , you can make that choice ( and certainly it is your choice : the idea of anyone else telling you what to do here is somewhere between cruel and absurd ) . What you can not do is list both John Doe and Jane Doe as authors . Well , not unless you wish to be truly transgressive : perhaps there are some areas of academia in which the jarring , confusing nature of such a byline would be viewed positively .
The way I usually choose journals is by looking at where people I trust/follow publish , and where previous work was published . It is usually not too hard to compare the quality your work to the quality of the work you are citing , and chose a target based on that . Unless your field is highly mutli-disciplinary , you will see the same journals/conferences popping up again and again in your references ; submit to one of those . Before submitting , however , it is always important to look at a few articles from previous issues . This will give you a second gauge of quality for the journal and also let you pick up on any formatting and presentations quirks that might be present in the publication .
I think : if I inform the professor right after I am aware of the decision , then I may hurt his/her feeling , because he/she was for me ; if I inform him/her later , then the same concern takes place and I can not justify why I procrastinated letting him/her know it . You should n't worry about this at all : Faculty members generally are n't particularly emotionally invested in these decisions . For the students involved , they feel ( and in fact are ) incredibly weighty , but faculty members are involved in dozens of cases per year , so they get some good news and some bad news and it all averages out emotionally . Even if this professor is unusually emotionally invested in the outcome , delaying reporting the result wo n't make it better . They might end up feeling unhappy with the unfairness of life or the poor decision-making skills of whoever turned down your application , but they wo n't be upset with or disappointed in you , so there 's no reason to worry or delay . I 'd recommend just letting your letter writers know when you find out , without stressing out about when or how you tell them . You could just forward the rejection e-mail with a brief note ( such as the " Many thanks for your support ; unfortunately I did not succeed . " suggested by iayork ) .
Yes , it is appropriate to ask the questioner to repeat the question , prefaced by : " I 'm sorry but I did n't understand the question . Can you repeat it or rephrase it ? " If you still do n't understand it , you might ask someone else in the audience to restate it or rephrase it . Some people at academic conferences are not good at asking clear , direct questions , even when they are native English speakers with normal dialect . I have asked people to repeat or rephrase questions for this reason , and I am a native English speaker .
It depends totally on your status , and what exactly this collaboration entails . You say " working as a staff under one professor " . If you 're on a short-term contract ( say , post-doc ) , then it 's probably not okay to do independent research on something completely different . You were hired on a project and it 's unlikely that you have any significant time left for something else . On the other hand , if this new collaboration is related to your project and you involve your professor in it , it is okay ( and he will welcome this initiative from which everyone involved benefits ) . To the above , there are a few exceptions : People who just arrived usually have some unfinished business with their previous institution , and they are given a bit more leeway in finishing it : revisions to make to papers on track for publication , conference attendance , etc. . People who are leaving due to their contract ending have to get involved with other projects to get a new job . They have to go fishing around , and this sometime requires a bit of extra work . Finally , if your activity on the side is quite unrelated to your main job , and you manage to do it on your own time without prejudice to your employer , you may do so . Some people write books , some get involved in open source software unrelated to their employment , etc. . If you 're working as an longer-term staff researcher in someone 's group , then it is expected that they respect your academic freedom . To a reasonable extent , you are free to engage in new collaborations with other people , and not necessarily involve your group leader .
Complementary to Suresh 's and Peter 's more comprehensive answers that you should definitely take into account : ( +1 to both ) Use ArXiv ; ie . publish it yourself . Go ahead and write your findings down and put them in public . This will be a good exercise as : you will be covered for plagiarism etc. and you 'll be also able to refer other people 's attention to it . It will be immensely easier to attract people attention to something tangible than just referring to " some idea you think it is great " . As Torvalds said : " Talk is cheap . Show me the code . " ( or Maths in your case ) . people you do not know , can actually find you ; or even cite you for that matter . I know a lot of people who regularly read ArXiv papers to keep up to speed with the bleeding edge of stuff . You might be lucky and really get some attention from people that actually care for your work . you will see for yourself if what you wrote can be formulated in a research paper and it does n't come across as some '' back of the envelope '' calculations . You might even identify where feedback from a collaborator would be helpful . If you think you are up to something good , put it up there . Worse case scenario : nobody bothers and you never know if you were right or wrong .
Complementing the other answers , either in addition to , or apart from , asking for the codes and running them yourself , I do n't think it is a bad idea to explicitly ask the authors , something like this : The standard algorithms for executing ( bla bla bla ) , e.g. as followed in the works of Refs . [ 1-3 ] ( feed these in ) , are suggestive of a standard accuracy in typical algorithms . The current work appears to have bettered the same , which is a strong point in favor of publication . However , the authors should include a comment in the manuscript , mentioning what changes have they implemented to the typical algorithms so highly prevalent , which leads to this enhanced accuracy . My jargon may have to be twisted a bit here , but I think I convey the point . This being a query in the referee report , the authors shall be obligated to feed in the details , and if there is some manipulation involved , it may end up being exposed . Hope that helps :)
If you think there was an oversight , you could always ask the chair of the tenure committee directly if they left you out . Alternatively , you could simply write the letter and submit it to the committee . The worst-case scenario here is that the letter is not forwarded to the committee .
It is also polite to write a cover letter , even if nobody asks for it . And the purpose is often to ease the process of finding the referees , so helping to do so by giving insights about the paper that can not be write in the paper is a good thing . If you mention potential referees , I guess it will not be sent to the chosen referees . Otherwise ( in my experience ) it is . You do n't have to praise your results in the cover letter . Just state shortly the results ( say more than the abstract , less than the introduction ) . If you think that there are issues related to the paper , this is also the place to state them ( conflict of interest , new way of considering something - which can hurt someone 's feelings - , direct negative comment on related work , etc. ) . If you think that , because your paper is gap-bridging , you need reviewers from several fields , you should say it as well .
I was asked to provide my comment as an answer , so here it is . It is yet another way to cite software . However , it requires some effort from the software authors . I developed an Open Source Web tool for modeling and gathering data when following a certain theory/methodology in software engineering . Here is how you would cite it : Graziotin , D and Abrahamsson , P 2013 . A Web-based modeling tool for the SEMAT Essence theory of software engineering . Journal of Open Research Software 1 ( 1 ) : e4 , DOI : <URL> This is possible because I opted to publish a software paper in the <URL> . It is a fully Open Access journal . This journal only accepts software papers on open source software for research . A software paper is a special kind of paper , which describes the software-e.g. , what is it about , implementation and architecture , its availability , and its reuse potential . The editorial process works as in any other research venue , and articles are peer-reviewed . The article processing charges are 25GBP . However , they can be fully waived if you can not afford them . What it is nice with this approach is that researchers have an extra motivation to open their software for research : they get a publication for that , plus citations . Additionally , writing a software paper is far easier than writing a methodology paper . I wrote a <URL> . TL ; DR ; Great experience , go for it .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
end question
start question
Withdrawing an article out for review when another journal posts a call for papers for a special issue that is right on topic ?
I would suggest the following steps : Ask journal # 1 if the review process has started . If it has not yet started , ask if it can be kept on hold for a few days . Meanwhile send a pre-submission inquiry to journal # 2 . If journal # 2 seems positive about your paper , send a request to withdraw the paper from journal # 1 . Be honest about your reason for withdrawal , and add a word of appreciation for the editor 's cooperation and understanding . Submit to journal # 2 once the withdrawal is confirmed . If the review process has started , it would be advisable to let things be and not withdraw from journal # 1 . If your paper is rejected from journal # 2 , you could consider submitting it to another journal rather than going back to journal # 1 .
I am in math , and have some experience with undergrad research ( from both sides ) , and there are lots of different ways you could have a good experience with undergrad research . What would be good for you will depend a lot on your individual situation ( mathematical maturity , background , independence , etc ) and your goals ( do you want to get a paper out of it ? just get some research experience ? learn something new ? help your case for grad schools ? ) . For getting into a good grad school , what 's most important is how well prepared you are in terms of background and how much potential you show . This is evidenced by your transcript and recommendation letters . Doing novel research or writing a paper is much less important ( unless it 's much more impressive than typical undergrad math research ) . ( Note : many undergrad theses in math are just an exposition of an important topic . Some of these are very good . ) So in terms of grad school , the most important thing out of this project will probably be ( 1 ) what you learn , and ( 2 ) the impression you make on your supervisor , who should write you a recommendation . For being able to get a paper out of it , research is never certain , but it 's important that the project is well thought out beforehand . More open-ended projects may sound interesting , and teach you a lot , but may not be conducive to having a finished project in the time available . I generally find ones that involve some calcutions/computation have a higher rate of " success , " in the sense you should at least be able to do the calculations , whereas projects that require you to develop some theory may just leave you completely stumped . ( Though some types of theoretical projects where you can follow the method of another paper closely also have high rates of success . Conversely , try to stay away from projects of the form " look for pattern in this data . " ) Hopefully you can get a sense of how well thought out the project is from the description ; also knowing how successful the supervisor was with previous students may suggest this person gives high-percentage or low-percentage success problems ( but if you 're more concerned about grad school , where the students went for grad school is more important than if they published papers ) . For learning things ( which helps with grad school ) , a project where you have to learn some theory ( even if just to do computations ) is better . Both to make progress and to learn things , an accessible advisor ( say is willing to meet you once a week or so ) is better . Apart from that , I would say put some value in your general impression from talking to the potential supervisor . If you have a chance to talk to former students of the supervisor , that could also be useful .
You 'd need to obtain the first informed consent and examine the wording . If the informed consent does state that the collected samples or information may be used for other research-related purposes and the new projects will be announced on some specified channels , then the researchers have fulfilled their due diligence . The problem being the general participants are really not very well-informed when it comes to providing biological specimen or medical records . For example , most of them may not realize that their samples can reveal a lot more as technology evolves . Unlike a questionnaire or an interview , the respondents know clearly what 's written and said , but they may not realize what their blood or DNA can reveal , or what they can reveal a few more years down the road when molecular technology further develops , and the researchers want a re-analysis . The researchers are usually not to blame , however , as they are probably equally clouded by the ever-changing hot topics . There are many occasions that a study was set up to test compound A , but fearing that compounds B , C , D. . . etc. may be the next scientific focal points , the researchers may opt for writing in the " opt out from reanalysis " statement into the consent form even they are not entirely sure what are to be reanalyzed and even if that analysis will ever happen . As for why opt out but not opt in , part of the reason is cost control : It 's extremely difficult to track people down and collect a consent form again . For that , I can empathize . If you will potentially be one of these studies ' participants and are worried about this opt out mechanism , do realize that you do n't owe them anything and you are completely free to walk away or require an amendment to limit the use of your samples , or request your sample or copies of record be destroyed after the study . The worst is that they will say no and you 'll walk away without a chance to participate or receive the stipend . However , you 'll have your peace of mind . So to answer your question , this practice is defensible as other mechanisms can be cost-prohibitive . However , I personally do not feel it is entirely fair as I am doubtful that the participants fully know the consequences and their rights when it comes to giving biological samples or related medical records . Guidelines are being developed , and hopefully more education on how to be an informed participant will happen .
I 've reviewed more than 50 papers , and my preparation to review them has varied widely . At least a few of them have drawn heavily on papers I 've written . Generally , these are extending my results . Typically , I ask myself : What does this paper add ? Is it something I would have thought of easily or not ? If yes , why did n't I include it in my paper ? In contrast , I 've also reviewed some papers that I was not well prepared for . They were in my general field , but in a subarea that I had n't worked in . These papers took a lot more work . ( Up to 10x as long for me to review as a paper in an area where I 'm very familiar . ) For papers in an area that 's new to me , I often have to look up ( and skim ) at least a few of the references from the introduction to judge whether the paper is original . Originality has at least two very different levels . The easier one to achieve is : ( 1 ) this result is new , and does n't follow simply from anything previous . The much harder one is , ( 2 ) this technique is fundamentally new and produces interesting results . If the results are interesting , most journals are happy to publish articles of type ( 1 ) . Articles of type ( 2 ) are much rarer , and can potentially open entire new fields . tl ; dnr : Preparation : you need to either know the subarea well or be willing to read a lot to learn about it . Originality : What papers does it draw on ? How likely is it that a reader of those would be able to write this paper ? Answering this question may require you to read a lot of background .
The extent of a re-review depends on what has been done with the manuscript ( MS ) . If the first review round yielded questions and comments that can be fixed but may require checking to make sure the implementation of the comments are correct , then , as you say , you will not have to do a full-blown re-review . If , on the other hand , the revisions are such that the MS has been substantially modified , perhaps with new parts added , new data included , etc. the situation is different . Then the paper is so modified it is in some way more of a new MS than just revised and , hence in need of a new throrough review . So in my opinion , the need of re-review depends on the severity of the required changes . How you decide depends on your opinion of the new paper . If an editor feels a MS is in need of so substantial revisions it becomes a new MS , then it is often rejected with a note about re-submission after work has been done . So in the end it is your view of the severity or magnitude of necessary changes that largely determines how much should be done . In some cases authors may disagree with a comment you feel strongly about and in such cases it may be necessary to enforce the view through more careful and convincing scrutiny . EDIT : I should perhaps add that a second or more reviewers may have given other comments that influence your review . This means parts of the MS can be changed in ways you have not suggested so although a new detalied re-review may not be necessary a careful read through and comparison with the old may be in order . Sometimes authors ( we ) can use conflicting reviews to argue against one or the other .
Do n't publish in weird journals Work to publish in the mainstream journals , despite their fickle biases and sometimes burdensome cost . Fields often have a pecking order of journals and the journal in which an article is published can change the perception of an article . Journals such as <URL> may be well-intentioned , but seem to provide a way for people to start worrying earlier and earlier about publishing . It is premature for you to worry about your publication profile . You 've already published one paper at 16 -- that 's great . You are ahead of the curve . Graduate programs look for undergraduates to have published . Colleges look for evidence of potential . In the two labs I 've worked in , the PI evaluates prospective high school students and undergraduates based on a letter of recommendations and a brief talk with the prospective student . Incremental publications in third tier journals may be a necessary part of the tenure slog , but you have the time now to just learn science and decide whether you want to pursue it as a career . Worrying about publications in high school is putting the cart before the horse .
Acceptability is in the eye of the beholder . You can not get this " right " for two reasons : Different scientific communities have conflicting opinions about about the credibility of various publication venues . Even " good " venues publish rubbish papers . Some important papers are published as white papers or technical reports , and will not appear on any list of journals . To my eyes , the real question is not about what the " right " value is , but about how the boundary that you draw will affect the conclusions of your systematic review . For example , if you are attempting to perform a meta-analysis on the data within other data sets , then you just need a wide enough scope to be sure to get good statistical validity . Therefore , if your topic is well-studied , you can probably restrict yourself to only those publications listed in some field-appropriate major database , e.g. , PubMed for biomedical literature , DBLP for computer science . It does n't really matter which one , because you 're not actually going for comprehensiveness , just for sufficient sampling , and it 's more important to get well-curated data than all data . Moreover , the bad publications in the dataset are expected to be drowned out be the good ones in your data processing . On the other hand , if you are attempting to summarize all of the credible thinking regarding a topic , then you would want to set a much broader criteria , e.g. , any journal or conference with at least 5 years of publication history and not on <URL> . In this case , you can be so generous because you are going to be using a lot more personal discretion in deciding how much weight to give each paper and interesting thinking may turn up in obscure places . These are the two main cases that I typically see for systematic review ; for other cases , you may need to adjust or pick other strategies . In all cases , however , the guiding principle is a ) there is no " right " answer , and b ) your choice should be driven by the effects it will have on your review .
Ignoring the journal in question is probably an overreaction . However , the best route to take is the first one -- the author of the copyrighted material is the one that has the most responsibility to assert her rights . Your duty is to notify the person whose work has been infringed upon that the violation has taken place . Once you 've done that , you 've achieved what 's ethically required of you . You are not obligated to take the matter up directly with the journal . ( However , you may do so if you so choose . )
Both ways are possible , but usually they are called differently . If the issue is replacing a regular issue , it is called special issue . If the issue is added to the standard set of issues , making an extra one , it is usually called supplement . And even here the conventions differ ; some supplements are published with a regular issue , and some are published separately . Most often , they are numbered as , or alike , but form an integral part of the volume .
If we momentarily disregard from discussions regarding the cons of ISI and Thomson-Reuters who run the service etc. and focus on the usefulness of ISI indexed journals for ones career , the answer is yes , at least to some extent . The importance is in part depending on your discipline since ISI indexing is not evenly distributed over disciplines . But generally speaking the ISI listing means the journal publishes papers that are referenced , which is an indication that it is research of some quality and importance . This does not mean non-ISI-listed journals are not " honourable " . But , when choosing a journal in which to publish , you need to make sure it is read by other in your field so that your research is seen and your ideas known by others . You should make a survey of journals that are of reference and if you find ISI-listed journals there is a reason to consier them if your papers fulfl their quality criteria because they will be seen as presigeous references when you are evaluated for a position etc. .
So far as I know , your understanding of the typical use of " embargo " for journals is correct : it is when a journal wants to be the " first to press " with its article , and so places a gag order on the authors and their institutions so that they do n't go talking to the press first . There is another place where journals also often want to be " first to press , " however , and I suspect that this is what " embargo " refers to in this case . It is often the case that a journal makes its content available through multiple routes : immediately through the publisher for a premium , and with time-lag through larger accumulations , such as PubMed or ScienceDirect . Thus , I think that what is probably going on here is that your institution does not judge this journal important enough to subscribe to directly , but gets it as part of a time-lagged " package deal . " You should check with your librarian how long the time-lag is , and then decide whether it 's worth waiting or if you want to ask a colleague to help you get around the paywall ...
What do you want to do with your life ? University is one way of getting to some of the answers . Trade school or apprenticing is another , if you think that 's closer to what you want to spend your life doing . It 's also legitimate to say you do n't know yet -- in which case you need to decide whether starting classes would help you decide what interests you , or if doing something else for a year makes more sense . I knew what I wanted to study ( or thought I did ; turns out I was close but not on the mark ) , but even so I decided to take a year off before college ; I needed a bit of maturation time , and to switch from being the youngest in the class to being one of the older kids , for my own comfort . Spent the year doing volunteer work in a hospital ( electronic repair , " biomedical engineering " ) , which was certainly educational in the general sense , helped build my self confidence , and may actually have helped my college application stand out from others . " ... There are nine and sixty ways / of constructing tribal lays , / And every single one of them is right ! " -- Kipling
Applying for multiple programs is common and unlikely to reflect badly upon you . Applications committees for different programs are usually made up of different members and it is highly unlikely that they will even know that you applied to both programs . The only time it might be revealed is when it goes to the administrators who send out the letters , and frankly they could care less . Something to note , which affects both this issue and your overall considerations of a program , is that schools usually look for different things in a PhD program vs. an MA , and that affects how they conduct their admissions . At many school , MAs are not just less-capable versions of PhD students , they are completely different type of student . Terminal MA programs are usually unfunded , and include people who are less likely to conduct independent research . Some MA students will go on to a PhD program , but probably not at the institution where they get the MA . For this reason , MA programs at many schools are called ' cash cows ' and admissions to those programs are less of a priority for the full faculty , with a lot of the sorting done by administration , focused on funding potential , and stricter considerations about things like GREs , etc. . PhD programs are research training to become academics , or at least independent researchers , and most PhDs are fully funded . Since the university is investing in you , and the faculty will be stuck with you in person for 5-10 years , and reputationally forever , the faculty care a great deal about this . Considerations like the ability to pay , and even strict measures of capacity like test scores , take a secondary role to creativity in the field , goodness of fit , and so on . Simply put , in many schools you have to impress two different sets of people to get admitted , with overlapping but different priorities . There are idiosyncratic reasons why you may be admitted to one program and not the other , and sometimes it might even be that you get into a PhD and not an MA . ( On balance , however , admissions to an MA program is more likely than a PhD , simply due to the volume of admissions . )
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
No , there is not . Speaking as somebody who has dealt with a number of special issues on both sides of the editorial table , there is simply too little coherence in how different journals advertise their special issues . Sometimes it 's hard even to find a coherent explanation of how a journal is approaching special issues even on its own website . Maybe somebody like Google could address this , but it would be a hard problem requiring either serious investment in human curation or serious natural language processing mojo .
Never hold your own recommendation letter ( looks unethical ) , let your current lecturers send the recommendation letter to the universities directly ( via email for example ) , that you applied for . Most universities , ask for two recommendation letters , by asking the information of the lecturers ( e.g. , email , address , phone , etc. ) who do that for you . So the recommendation letters will be sent by your lecturers ( e.g. , email , mail , online form , etc. ) to the universities you applied for ; without you seeing/holding the letter .
You should never offer a link shortener as the only option in an academic paper , for two reasons : It 's adding another point of failure : if the shortening service is down , then the link can not be followed . This is a particular worry over time , since the service may go out of business . One of the big reasons why link shorteners are so popular is that they keep track of usage statistics . I 'd be offended if I thought an author was using this to monitor when the link was followed , where the people following it were located , etc. . So if you offer a shortened URL , it should only be in addition to the real URL , not in place of it . However , I 'd tend to avoid even that . It does n't look professional to me , and I do n't think there 's much savings for the reader . ( Online papers should have clickable URLs , or at least ones that can be copied and pasted , so this only arises for someone who has a printed copy but no online copy . That can happen , but it 's hardly a major issue . )
There are many papers out there that give a new proof of a previously-existing theorem . You can search for " a new proof of " in mathscinet ( or even google ) and find lots of good papers in respectable journals . However , the new proof must provide new insight to be worth publishing . Two proofs can look different but actually be very similar , in the sense that they are relying on the same key ideas . This can be a bit subtle ( and even subjective in edge cases ) , so it 's a good idea if possible to consult with an expert in your field before making your findings public . But if you manage to prove the result in a more elementary way than the original proof , that 's a big point in your favor . It 's always good to know that a result can be proven without appealing to a powerful theorem . If you go in the opposite direction ( e.g. showing that a theorem from the 1950s also follows from Fermat 's Last Theorem ) , you 're less likely to impress people .
How to present this information may depend on your field . In mathematics , special issues are uncommon , and they carry no additional prestige . ( A special issue might attract stronger papers than usual , or it might be forced to accept weaker papers due to an insufficient supply of thematically appropriate submissions . ) On the other hand , in computer science particularly strong conference papers are sometimes invited to special issues of journals . You should emphasize the special issue on your CV only if this is a widely recognized concept in your field and it is generally considered prestigious . I 'd recommend listing papers in special issues together with other papers ( but with a special indication if appropriate ) , rather than in their own section . If you can give a short but compelling description ( e.g. , the program committee invited the top 30 % of the papers at Conference X to the special issue ) , that could help people from other fields make sense of the designation . This can be valuable in both hiring and tenure cases .
He should just use his official employer . There are lots of scientific papers from people with affiliations in industry . Most of the time , these authors are working for companies in technical fields that are at least somewhat related to the research , but not always . ( I knew of somebody who was still working with his doctoral advisor doing research in theoretical particle physics , while he was employed at a company making speech recognition software , and the software company was his listed affiliation . ) Especially if most of the other authors have more conventional affiliations , listing a consulting company for one authors is not going to raise any eyebrows . If the manuscript was completely written while he was a student , he could use his university affiliation , with a footnote indicating his current position . However , I would imagine in this case that the text was not finalized until after the author moved into industry , in which case the university affiliation is not appropriate .
end question
start question
Is it immoral to show new students how to use Wolfram Alpha ?
I always like to show the students Wolfram Alpha in freshman math courses . ( Many will already know about it , whether you show them or not . ) There are several reasons for this . The first is that it 's a useful tool , both for checking solutions to homeworks , and also for later in life . But the more important reason is that many students are skeptical of why they have to take a course in calculus . I double down on their skepticism by demonstrating to them that a computer can solve most computational questions on a calculus exam in about 0.05 seconds , and can even " show its work " . Having gotten their attention , I now have a good opportunity to make my case for the value of a math education . As far as exams go , I recommend prohibiting the use of all electronic devices . Some students will cheat on their homework , but that will be true no matter what and in the end they are cheating themselves .
I 'll try to give a general answer from a non-CS perspective . tl ; dr : yes , there are errors out there . A lot of errors , clerical and not , even in oft-cited papers and books , from any field . It 's inevitable : though they do their best to avoid errors , authors are human after all , and reviewers are humans too ( I know , you never find a damn robot when you need one ) . Thus , whenever you read a paper , maintain a critical thinking . EXAMPLES I 'll start the too long section with an anecdote . When I was working at my master 's thesis , some twenty years ago , I needed a result published in a much cited paper from a renowned author in the field of electromagnetics . At the time , ( almost ) young and inexperienced , I thought that papers were always absolutely right , especially when written by recognized authorities . To practice the technique of the paper , I decided to rederive the results : after a week spent redoing the calculations over and over again , I could n't find the same final equation . I was able to discover the correct equation - the one I was finding - in a book published later by the same author . Indeed , it was a clerical error that absolutely did n't change anything in the paper , but it was annoying and taught me an important lesson : papers and books contain errors . And , of course , I later published papers with mistakes in equations ( not for revenge ! ) [ * ] . After that first experience , I 've discovered that you can find more fundamental errors , even in well known books and papers . I 'll give you here a few examples , taken from different fields , to underline how broad the phenomenon is ( in bold , the mistaken claim ; within parentheses , the field ) : ( Classical mechanics ) In Newtonian mechanics , the correct equation of motion in case of variable mass is F = dp/dt . This statement can be found in many classical books about newtonian mechanics , but it is plainly wrong , because that equation , when the mass is variable , is not invariant under Galilean transformations as it is expected in Newtonian mechanics ( actually , the concept of variable mass in Newtonian mechanics can be misleading if not properly handled ) . For a deeper discussion see , e.g. , <URL> , <URL> and Spivak 's book Physics for Mathematicians , Mechanics I . As a curiosity , that wrong equation is used by <URL> in <URL> as an example to introduce the memristor . ( Circuit analysis ) Superposition ca n't be applied directly to controlled sources . It was just a few years ago when I came across this statement for the first time , and I was stunned : hey , I 've applied superposition to controlled sources since I was in high school , and I 've always get the right result . How it possibly ca n't be used ? In fact , it can be applied , the important thing is to apply it correctly , but there are really many professors ( I have several examples from Italy and US ) who do n't understand this point and fail to notice that the proofs of several theorems in circuit analysis are actually based on the applicability of superposition to controlled sources . For more on this , see e.g. <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . ( Thermodynamics ) The Seebeck effect is a consequence of the contact potential . This false statement can be frequently read in technical books and application notes about thermocouples . [ * ] Update 31/08/2015 : apropos of my own errors , a couple of weeks after having written this answer I discovered an error in an equation of a published conference paper which I co-authored . A fraction that should have been something like - A/B became B/A . Hey -- I told one of the other authors -- how could we possibly have written this ? And how did it get past the reviewers ? The fact is , that that equation was associated to a simple , well-known , example given in the introduction , an example so simple that probably neither us authors nor the reviewers gave a second look at the equation ( of course , how can anyone write this wrongly ? ) . I feel that many clerical errors like this one happen because of last-minute changes to notation : you have almost finished the paper and you realize that you could have employed a better notation ... so , let 's change it on the fly ! And here is where certain errors sneak-in . Avoid last-minute changes , if you can .
I agree that it makes sense to set expectations as early as possible . I 'd just put Note that all XXX for this course are in English . in the syllabus . You should of course be specific as to what XXX is : Class slides Required reading Supplemental reading Lectures ( you could have slides in English but speak the local language during the actual lecture ) Quizzes Exams If quizzes/exams are in English , you should also note whether students would be expected to answer in English . Whether or not you also want to include the reasons for this is really up to how much space you have in the syllabus and whether there is n't anything more important to put there . I 'd say that a warning might be a better use for the space : If your English is not up to reading/understanding/writing technical documents , this course likely is not a good fit for you .
No not standard ( at least in Canada ) and depends upon the tradition , it may actually seem as an odd thing . If there is a social gathering before Christmas then I believe that is fine to bring chocolates or whatever to all of attendees . I would be very cautious to give my advisor gift every christmas . A verbal saying before the holiday starts is normal and acceptable ; nothing more nothing less .
You 're taking that advice from the blog out of context . It says : 1 . Is nice , and friendly , and available . And never gives you the fierce criticism and the tough pushback that forces you to confront your weaknesses , take risks , stop whining , cut the excuses , get over your fears , and make hard decisions about reputation , money , and jobs . It 's the part beginning with " and never " that describes a problematic advisor , not the " nice , friendly , and available " part . An advisor who is unwilling to criticize a student and share harsh truths when necessary is certainly problematic for many students . But I would n't necessarily conflate that with being " nice . " For most students , an advisor who is genuinely nice is a good thing . As for If you 've never cried before , during , or after a meeting with your advisor , something is amiss . Doing a PhD is <URL> for most people . My advisor is one of the nicest people I know , and I 've walked out of his office on one or two occasions and gone off somewhere to cry . Not because he is n't nice , but because what I 'm doing is difficult , and sometimes we have to have some very difficult and/or discouraging conversations .
Is it against the law ? Probably . It it scientific misconduct ? A breach of ethics ? Hardly . It is acceptable ? It 's your decision to make based on risk analysis . If you do n't do it on a large scale ( i.e. someone supplying many people with papers ) , it 's probably okay . It is common practice . Also , be aware that many journal articles can now be found either in pre-print or post-print form online ( though this depends widely on your field ) , either on institutional repositories or on the authors ' webpages . If you 're merely missing access every once in a while , you can also nicely ask the corresponding author .
I do not view it as generally unethical to refer to these solutions . This situation is more complex than I think some other answers have admitted . Here is a list of claims : In an ideal world , the point of homework is for the student to learn the material . In a perfectly ideal world , we would not need to grade homework , because students would do it on their own to master the material . They might refer to other people 's solutions to see if theirs are correct , and that would be fine . Experience shows this world is not perfect . Students will often skip ungraded homework , and their learning and exam grades will suffer . So instructors assign homework for a grade . But this is n't because the grade is really important : it 's because we want the students to do the homework and learn the material ! Some students then get the idea that the grade is the real goal of the homework , and simply copy their assignment from others . Professors often find this unacceptable . One important point that others have answered is that , if you are going to turn in the homework , what you turn in should reflect your own understanding of the assignment . But , equally importantly , it is important to let yourself struggle with problems for a while before looking up the answer . That is the only way to really learn how to solve problems . Most professors accept that the internet exists - we know you can look up other people 's answers . It used to be that fraternities had giant files of old homework and exam answers for this purpose ( maybe they still do ) . And students study in groups all the time - research shows study groups can dramatically increase learning . So getting help is not a bad thing . But you do n't want to get help too quickly . Make a genuine effort to answer the problems yourself first . If you find that you are looking up the answers to all the problems ( even the easiest ones ) , then something is off - try going for more tutoring , or studying more before doing the homework . If you find that you occasionally need to look up one of the most difficult problems , that 's perfectly normal ( but it still would n't excuse directly copying the solution into your homework , of course ) . Of course , the usual caveats apply : some professors may specifically tell you not to collaborate with anyone or use any other resources . But most professors know that students usually collaborate with each other on homework ( e.g. study groups ) and know that students can look up answers using other resources . We have no problem with that , as long as each student 's submission reflects their own understanding in the end .
In the general case , professors/lecturers/TAs should not accept gifts from students , as these things can lend themselves very easily to accusations of conflict of interest . This falls in the same general category as dating one of your students , or grading your kid 's exam . That said , I can think of three situation where gifts are acceptable . ( 1 ) a graduating student gets you something nice after graduation ( e.g. , in the department where I did my PhD , it is normal for students and advisors to exchange gifts after a successful doctoral defense ) . ( 2 ) a current student makes a " collective gift " , e.g. , a student brings a cake to class to celebrate his/her birthday and offers you a slice . ( 3 ) you go through some major life event and students pitch in to get you something , e.g. , when I came back to work after having to get major surgery , the grad students in my department got me a nice coffee machine to celebrate that I had n't died .
You do n't get a " certificate " for publishing something . The fact that it is available online at the journal 's website ( which can take a while , depending on their publishing speeds ) and has a doi ( which you should receive soon after acceptance ) , is sufficient proof . Most societies do n't have a membership card either . They might send you a welcome letter , which you could use as proof of membership . Most places accept different forms of proof of claim when a formal one does n't exist . In your cases , the following should be just as valid : An email from the editor , accepting your paper for publication ( you should have this ) An email from the society , thanking you for your interest and membership A screenshot of your member page , showing validity A screenshot of the web copy of your paper ( some journals throw a rough version on the web which serves till the final version is typeset ) .
I do n't think there is any inherent problem with mixing active and passive voice . However I would offer the following suggestions : The passive voice is certainly unnecessary here , so you might as well avoid it . You could simply say " We have also obtained some new results . " I think most people prefer to write abstracts in the present tense . " In the present paper , we prove theorems ... We also obtain some new results . " The last sentence " obtained some new results " is so vague that it does n't tell the reader anything . Either add more details ( " We also obtain some new results on the reticulation of splines " ) or just omit the sentence altogether .
You need to run this by your Institutional Review Board ( IRB ) , as you would any time you use data from human subjects for research . From what you describe , it has a good chance of qualifying for an <URL> under one of these categories ( if identifying information is removed before giving the data to the researcher ) : It is using existing data the data comes from normal educational practices but even then , the IRB needs to be the one to make that determination .
The proportion of " homegrown " to " ... imported ? " PhDs varies depending on your discipline , but at the science end of things ( I 'm in computer science , but know plenty of mathematicians and also majored in chemistry as an undergraduate ) it 's quite international . Apart from pathological cases ( known " bad " universities , or otherwise extremely dubious universities ) , where you got your PhD is not particularly important . As Jeromy says in another answer , international experience is definitely viewed favourably though . My having done my doctorate overseas has definitely been a boon . The real criteria are performance based ; publications , teaching ( especially awards or other recognition ) and ability to bring in the grant money ! ( That last one in quite important , for better or worse ) . As a recent Doctorate , you 'll mainly need to show that you can conduct quality research . Just for some completely non-statistically-significant stats , my Australian undergrad . chemistry department had about 50 % overseas PhDs , my CS department had more like 90 % overseas PhDs and my maths department had about 50 % too . At my current ( Australian ) department ( CS ) , it 's probably about 70-80 % overseas PhDs ( though that 's a guesstimate at the moment ) , including me . Of course the caveat is , again , this will change from department to department and university to university . Some like to only hire their own graduates , others will never hire their own graduates . Your best course is really to contact the academics offering the jobs , establish a bit of an informal relationship and find out what each position is looking for .
No , but make sure you cite it and mention it , to avoid being accused of copying and pasting from Wikipedia . In any case , it is great that you have contributed to Wikipedia and I wish more people considered using pieces of their introductory chapters for Wikipedia . Just make sure that people know that you copied to , not from , Wikipedia . ( I mean , the order is irrelevant , i.e. whether you first wrote text for Wikipedia or your thesis , but the authorship is . )
This makes the letter of recommendation more personal and shows , you really want to support her . It makes a difference to all the other " this student has good grades and is always on time " - letters . So go ahead !
Unfortunately I do not have enough rep to write a comment on Moriarty 's answer , but I think that it is most likely because of absent-mindedness in the part of the student . I wanted to comment the following idea if you 're lending out something like pens : My mother used to work with students who would need to come in , go through a long document and sign it before leaving . She would go through an enormous number of pens , as the students often just popped them back into their pockets by accident . She came across the idea of flower pens ( gluing a big fake fabric flower to the end of the pen ) and implemented it on the pens in her office , and she said that suddenly her pens stopped disappearing - since they were now tricky for the students to mistake them for their own , or accidentally stuff them in their pockets . Depending on equipment you could try other things ( I imagine you could spray-paint some things in bright neon or shiny colours , attach big tags or tassles to the items ) to make them stand out a little more . ( A sample pen : <URL> )
You ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper until it is made public ( by the authors as a preprint , or by the publisher ) . In particular , before that point you ca n't refer to the paper , you ca n't use the ideas without referring to it , you ca n't publish or otherwise disseminate results based on it , and you ca n't discuss it with other people , including your collaborators . It can be really frustrating to know something important and be unable to tell anyone else for the time being , but there 's no way around it ethically . The reason is that submitting a paper for publication is not considered to release it for other use or dissemination until it is actually published . The people involved in processing and evaluating it ( most notably the editors and reviewers ) have an ethical obligation to keep all information about the submission strictly confidential and not to use it to gain any personal advantage . Once it is published of course it can be treated the same as any other paper , and in the meantime the authors can choose to make information publicly available via preprints or talks ( in which case others can follow up on this information as appropriate ) , but nobody else is authorized to release any information before publication beyond what the authors have chosen to share , or to use it for any purpose other than reviewing the paper . Otherwise it has the same ethical status as using material you stole off the authors ' desks . There 's no reason why the research community has to work this way in principle , but it 's the system that has evolved over time . ( Note that as recently as the 1930 's , famous physicists were <URL> as to how peer review should work . ) It 's possible that in the future we will move to systems such as submitting for publication only after releasing a preprint . That seems to be the trend in some fields , but we have n't yet made a full transition if we ever will , and the community 's ethical principles still offer protection to authors who choose not to distribute their paper before publication . Nobody signs a non-disclosure agreement when reviewing a paper , but the ethical principles are well established . Deliberately violating them would be a serious form of misconduct , which could easily be career-ending if it was more than a minor or technical violation . Pete L. Clark asks in the comments whether referees are allowed to prepare follow-up papers , as long as they do n't distribute them before the original paper becomes public . I.e. , does the " you ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper " really mean you ca n't do anything , or just that you ca n't disseminate anything yet ? ( Let 's assume it 's a single-authored paper that is not discussed with anyone else in advance . ) My interpretation is that nobody can stop you from thinking a little , and you may not even be able to stop yourself , but actively working on and writing a paper of your own would be abusing your position as referee . There probably is n't a consensus as to exactly where the line is for what 's strictly forbidden , but either side of the line could still look terrible . If you want to publish work you began thinking about as a referee , I 'd strongly recommend against doing it so quickly that 's it clear you had to have known about the original paper in advance .
I 'd go back and consult one of those " How to teach " books you 've probably got lying around and focus on doing a good job of stating the course 's Learning Objectives . Then , I 'd make sure that the course material , the learning activities and assessment tasks are properly aligned with those objectives . I would then make sure the students get to see those objectives and to understand how what they will be doing fits with those objectives . I would design some sample assessment activities , such as sample exam questions ( if that is one of your planned means of assessment ) . Then I would make sure that the content of your course is sufficient to enable students to do such assignments or answer such questions . <URL> is an excellent resource for helping you do this . And it never hurts to refresh your didactic skills .
I feel this is a difficult situation , with a number of variables that should influence your decision : Is your advisor completely gone ( e.g. , in complete retirement , gone to industry , or even dead ) , or has he just left for a different academic post ? If he is completely gone , you may need to find somebody to supervise you in your day-to-day research . If he has just moved on to a different university , it is possible that you want somebody to " formally " be your PhD advisor , but practically keep on working remotely with your old advisor . Whether you even want to keep on working remotely with your old advisor depends on how advanced you are and how well you worked with her/him beforehand . Are you advanced enough that you can finish your thesis more or less on your own ? That is , do you need an advisor or an examiner for your thesis ? If it is the latter , then pretty much anybody who is sufficiently well-versed in your area could act as your advisor for the finishing sprint . If you actually feel like you still need a lot of input to get your thesis ready , it will be harder to find somebody who can and is willing to take you on midway . If you are advanced and your advisor is only moving to a different university , it should be reasonably easy for you to find a " local proxy " without having to adapt your research plan too much . How set-in-stone is your research plan ? Or , in other words , how ready are you to adapt to the research agenda of another advisor ? Generally , if you really do n't want to change your research , but you also feel like you still need a lot of input , it is likely that you will have problems finding a suitable new advisor . If you are happy to change research topics , finding an advisor should not be more difficult than the first time . How does your funding work ? That is , do you " only " need a new advisor , or do you need a new advisor and a new funding source ( e.g. , project , grant ) ? Clearly , the former case will make it much easier to find a new advisor . In the second case , you will need to be willing to change your research plan somewhat , as few professors will be ready to dish out grant money if the student is not actually working on their projects . Are you a good student ? Ok , this may be somewhat controversial , but clearly if you have been an overperformer so far , it will be substantially easier to convince another professor to take you on . Similarly , if you already have great publications in your research , it will be much easier to convince a professor that you want to continue working on this concrete research idea and not change to whatever other project your new advisor has in mind . Are you willing to change universities ? If so , maybe coming along with your old advisor is an option ? So how does this help you ? In a first step , you need to reflect on all of these points to figure out what kind of advisor you actually want/need . Then go over the list of potential faculty that formally could serve as advisor . Think about how your collaboration with each of those potential advisors could work , and what you would need from them . Get in touch with the ones that seem most suitable ( as you already study there I am assuming you can just send them a mail , or have your current advisor put you in contact ) , and discuss the issue with them . Select the one that ( a ) is willing to take you on , and ( b ) you feel is most consistent with your answers to the questions above .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> and other indexing services have their own ways how the papers get into their database . For Scopus , the journal has to be registered there , and then actively send the data . It 's similar for Web of Knowledge I think . Google gets the data from who-knows-where and I doubt you can control it efficiently . In general , it takes couple weeks to several months . As dgraziotin pointed out in comments , Google Scholar indexes citations from <URL> quite quickly , in couple days . However , by many people and many institutions , arXiv papers are not considered at all regarding citations , unless they are published properly elsewhere and properly Journal-ref ' ed ; even then , many people do n't trust that the arXiv version is correct , because nobody makes any check of this ( I mean , you can put whatever Journal-ref to whatever your arXiv paper , so it 's not trusted ) .
The construction " and/or " generally betrays a weak sentence construction . It 's almost always possible to replace the use of " and/or " with a more satisfactory construction ( such as " either ... or " or " at least one of " ) . So while you are allowed to use it ( unless your style manual tells you otherwise ! ) , I think it 's always better to avoid it in such writing . ( One sign that it has not really gained widespread acceptance is the fact that most style manuals still tell you to eliminate " and/or " constructions entirely . )
end question
start question
Paper published in peer-reviewed student journal that appears to have shut down . How should I present evidence of article publication ?
In the ( rare ) event of you requiring proof of your publication , you ought to still hold the email communications that connects to the Publisher as evidence ; especially the ' acceptance for publication ' and ' confirmation of publication ' letters . Your issue volume and number look like it 's a relatively new journal to which you 've submitted your paper . I sure hope that it is n't a predatory one .
I believe you may get some tips from the answers to a question of mine on this very site : <URL> As for myself , I list the peer-reviews I have done in a " Administrative and collective duties " or " Community involvement " . Or , in a short CV which does n't have such divisions , I put it with the broader " Other skills and activities " section ( i.e. not teaching , not research projects ) . What I include is : list of journals for which I act as reviewer ( " Regular reviewer for many chemistry journals , including ... " ) funding bodies ( NSF , private trusts , etc. ) for which I act as expert ( including , e.g. , NSF division , but not the exact programs ) evaluation committees on which I sit It feels obvious , but it 's always worth repeating : do not include any confidential information , such as titles or author lists for reviewer papers or projects . I think it 's safe to list the number of reviews performed for each outlet if you want ( but I do n't do it ) .
the fact that I had a chance to go to the competition is one of my competitive points . How can I write that down on my CV ? You almost wrote down exactly what you need . was selected to go to SPO , [ ... which is an accomplishment why ? ] an extremely selective program admitting only [ top X % of , Y hundred , etc. ] physics students nationwide And it 's always fine to say " placed in the top 1/2 of students " if true . Just from a resume writing standpoint anything worse than top 1/2 would n't add value to include . As an aside , you are completely right that this is huge lauds . In high school I placed # 8 in a similar state-wide competition . What if the top 10 were invited for an even more competitive competition and I came darn near in last ? Do n't fall for the Russian doll effect which more or less just tells you you 're not # 1 in the world ( ... but even the best undergraduate programs admit more than one physics student ! ) Obviously the admission would be an accomplishment . Quantification is important . Numbers are best for a corporate resume , but perhaps just establishing the prestige of SPO is sufficient . Check their website for info on how prestigious it is to participate . Perhaps they have recognition from the U.S. President or something - whatever it is they 'll be sure to brag about it somewhere . If the reviewer does not know of SPO , they will have no way to tell this is n't just an email list with 30 students submitting problems and answers with a leader board .
Usually depositing a paper in arXiv prior to journal submission does count as a preprint . Wikipedia explicitly says so ... here 's the wiki link : <URL> . You can check out this list of journals with preprint policy : <URL> If you posted your paper in arXiv before submitting to the journal , do inform the journal ( include the link to your paper in arXiv ) . From your post , it seems that your journal does not have such a tight preprint policy .
No , you can not . Until the paper is publicly available you can not show it to anyone nor even acknowledge its existence . The only slight exception I would make is that if a colleague was going to pursue similar/identical research , I would tell them they might want to contact the author . I would assume that this would result in my identity as a reviewer being revealed . Your options are : Submit your manuscript as is , but add the citation as soon as it become public . Reveal your identity as a reviewer and ask the author for a preprint . Option 1 is reasonable since you believe the existence of the paper is not critical to your paper . Option 2 is okay , but remember the reviewers of you manuscript will not have easy access to the cited material .
Why do n't you write the corresponding author and ask them what the sample size was . You can always cite the sample size , if you decide to use the study , as a personal communication .
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
Ultimately , no , you ca n't . There 's no infrastructure to say " I want to get a single DOI for XYZ arbitrary url " . DOIs for most scholarly publications are issued through CrossRef . CrossRef do not assign DOIs directly , but delegate this to members or their agents . Members , who are usually publishers , pay a fee to the central consortium , and agree to issue DOIs based on a <URL> . As you can see from these rules , the general sense of membership is " organisations issuing DOIs for stuff they control " . While there is n't an explicit prohibition against assigning DOIs to third-party material ( which surprised me ! ) , point 4 comes pretty close : Members have an obligation to maintain the metadata and URLs associated with all registered DOIs . There is also a general prohibition of ' duplicative ' works including preprints : Crossref only registers DOIs for Definitive Works ( or Versions of Record , if not formally published ) but not for Duplicative Works , as defined in the Crossref Glossary . This means that only original scholarly material , for which there is no actual DOI at the time of submission , and no expected duplication in future , is admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Crossref does not permit multiple DOIs to be assigned to certain closely related versions of a work , and hence does not support assignment of DOIs to Pre-prints or Post-prints of Definitive Works or to the Personal Version or a Self-archived Copy of a Definitive Work . For the same reasons , materials for which DOI duplication can be reasonably anticipated , such as an Authors Original Draft of a work being prepared for publication , are not admissible for Crossref DOI registration . Putting those together , it seems likely that CrossRef 's terms would prevent a member agreeing to issue a DOI for a ( potentially duplicative ) work hosted somewhere out of their control . So , could you get a DOI from someone else , outside of CrossRef ? Probably not . DOIs are only issued through a number of central registration authorities ( eg CrossRef , DataCite ) . These have <URL> areas of activity ( eg DataCite wo n't issue DOIs for publications ) and , to the best of my knowledge , none offer a " DOI for an arbitrary URL " service .
The practice I 'm most familiar with is that a coauthor is a coauthor is a coauthor . Anyone listed as a coauthor on the title page of the paper should be listed on the title slide of any talk about the paper , and explicitly acknowledged ( " This is joint work with ... " ) when the talk begins . Whether any of your coauthors helped you prepare your slides or the proceedings abstract is none of the audience 's business . But this attitude is clearly specific to my field , where papers only rarely have more than three authors . It might not scale so well in fields ( like particle physics ? ) where a " small " group may have 100 members .
Short Answer Do n't be too picky at first , learn about others ' work ; try to come up with some problem < - > solution pairs ; and then you shall find your own path ; when writing them down . Longer Answer Fun Fact : Publishable results are based on published results and some more . You need to do ' the some more ' part , and know the ' published results ' . So : 1 . High Rank Publications and their citations : Find the best publications in the area of your work , and see how they solve the problems and how the present their results and who they cited ; and read and learn them as well . 2 . Narrow Down More and More When Writing Down : Ok , now after reading some papers/journals/books , you want to write something . Here we do the following : 2.1 Problem and Solution ( Potential ) : You might ask what problem I want to work on ? Well the one you know how to solve ! I might go and write a code generator and say : " well , it is fast and ' efficient ' " . How do I know ? Well I do n't know ! I need to check it with others . So , we go to the next phase : 2.2 Evaluation and Background Checks : You start evaluation of your work by others ' approach ( and write about it ) . Must likely your approach is not good enough , so you go back to he first step and update this one . 2.3 Introduction and Evaluation Now you know what you are talking about , you write the introduction and conclusion about it . Then Boom ! you have a paper , that could be published . Find a conference/journal and hope for the best !
I favor acting in the following way : If you 've only read one of the versions , cite that one . God knows what 's in the one you have n't read . If you 've read both versions : if they are identical relative to the information you need , publication in a journal or proceedings volume takes precedence over ( re ) publication in a career collection ( e.g. , " Selected works of Jones " ) , which takes precedence over arxiv , which takes precedence over non-arxiv manuscripts . if they are not identical relative to the information you need , cite whichever one contains the best version ( where best probably needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis ) .
According to <URL> : The conference proceedings are to be published in the Springer 's LNAI ( indexed by DBLP , EI , Scopus , and Thomson ISI ) . In other words , your conference paper is already published . The journal paper will therefore be a new publication , and as such , you could use a different title , to avoid any confusion ( and it will be a different paper , since you have to expand it ) . EDIT However , there are precedents , for at least one previous edition of the conference you 're mentioning , of authors having the same title in the conference and in a journal edition ( taken from DBLP ) : Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . IEICE Transactions 94-D ( 3 ) : 479-486 ( 2011 ) Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 271-281 Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Ling Ji : Power load forecasting using data mining and knowledge discovery technology . IJIIDS 5 ( 5 ) : 452-467 ( 2011 ) Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Yakun Wang : Power Load Forecasting Using Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Technology . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 319-328 Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . IJATS 3 ( 4 ) : 1-18 ( 2011 ) Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 329-338 Looking at random references from the journals in question , it seems quite frequent to have the same name for a journal paper and a conference publication the previous year . In other words , I stand corrected , and you might want to keep the same name for the journal version . As pointed out by DavidRicherby and Mangara , it 's likely to be field dependent . Hence , the best approach is probably to look at previous editions of the journals in question , and check if there are matching conference papers .
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
I would say instead that it would be much more surprising if these departments all had the same names , particularly for relatively new and cross-disciplinary areas of work like in your example . The domains of science are broad and overlapping , and there are many ways that the whole domain can end up being parsed into departments by different institutions , just like <URL> . Given that there are many reasonable possible clusterings and names , the actual determinants tend to be very contingent and historical . Among these are : Interdepartmental politics , including which part of a university wants to sponsor the new department , which faction of an old department wants to split away . The viewpoint of the faculty forming the department Popularity of subjects over time : small departments merge and large departments split . There are many other possible causes as well . Thus , the question is not : " Why are they different ? " but " Why would you expect them to be the same ? "
No , you should probably not contact the Associate Editor . First off , referees do not generally make decisions about accepting or rejecting a paper . Referees make recommendations to associate editors and editors , and they , in turn , make decisions . Thus , the associate editor who was cc ' ed on the email to you is probably the decision-maker who read the reports from the referees and decided to turn down the paper . This person also knows who the referees were , and is in a situation where this input can be appropriately scaled by the referees review history , level of experience , etc. . For what its worth , I consider it bad form when refereeing to make my recommendation known to the author . I give an honest assessment , describe my issues , and then make my recs to the editors in the appropriate fields . ( I also make it my personal policy for manuscripts , at least , to never say anything that I would n't say to the authors face ) There may be check boxes in the reviews that you are n't privy to . Even your reviewer who seemed to recommend acceptance may not have been all that enthusiastic about it , or may not have thought the paper to be very important . You should make use of the feedback you got , which suggested that there was too much similarity with another paper of yours . You should make the paper clearer as to what the new findings are . Take a step back and determine if , given the magnitude of this extension , is this worthy of a full paper , or perhaps the field would be better served by some sort of short report . Then pick the appropriate venue for publication . There are some legitimate cases where you might drop the editor a note . Certainly , if something " very wrong " happened during the review process , but that does n't seem to be the case here . My experience is that this is rare , and most reviews are fine . Your most productive action at this point would be to discuss the reviews with a mentor .
Yes you should . I expect that a common question in any interview would be to ask the candidate about any piece of work of which the candidate feels particularly proud or pleased . Being able to refer to your publication -- and have a copy of it with you -- would be a positive thing . Regarding your opinion of the work -- you might be your own worst critic . Clearly the journal editor felt it was acceptable for publication . In a positive spin , you could outline in your interview where you feel the work could have been improved , showing a capacity for reflective practice .
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
Two things are unclear about your question Is there anything I can do that does n't violate the confidentiality of the peer review process to address the problem ? : What is the goal of any intervention ? Why do you think that anything should be done ? If , for example , you aim for retraction , I guess this could be difficult . You may go for this on the ground that you can prove that the authors were aware of the flaws you pointed out and submitted the paper knowing that there was something wrong . The journal may have some rule that the authors have to certify that the results are true to the best of their knowledge . If this really is so , you may have some angle of attack . If you aim for correction by the authors , it could also be difficult . However , you could consider writing a letter to the editor , pointing out what is wrong and then ask if the journal would publish such a letter . Some journals I know have such formats . You could also do follow-up research on the same topic and write a paper yourself where you refer to the paper with flaws and describe what wrong there . For the second question , it sounds like you feel that " What 's published and peer-reviewed should be true . " While this resonates with me , it 's not something that is close to true now and probably never will be . Mistakes happen . You may then trust in the scientific community that the flawed paper will be perceived as such in the long run and find peace with this particular paper . Finally , the premise that confidentiality of the peer review process may permit some actions is not totally clear . As I wrote in a comment , I asked a <URL> and got very different responses .
I like the headphones idea , and perhaps a baseball cap , worn rather low , would help in a similar way . Some more ideas : You could put an embroidered sign on your cubicle wall ( or a calligraphy version ) saying something like " If you ca n't say something nice , do n't say anything at all " or " If you ca n't say something nice , say it in French . " If those are too blatant , perhaps you could post the latter phrase in French . Or choose one of the many <URL> that represent the concept . I particularly liked " NO Trashing OR Bashing Zone . " When someone approaches you and starts yakking , there are two ways of stopping them : ( a ) Look interested , respond with a wide variety of facial expressions , but without saying anything . ( b ) Say , " I do n't want to lose my train of thought , and I 've got a deadline -- can you tell me the rest tomorrow ? " Start coughing , grab an empty water bottle from your desk drawer , point at your throat , and walk quickly to the bathroom . If the person is still in your visitor 's chair when you come back , point at your throat and communicate nonverbally that you ca n't talk -- until he goes away . For the really stubborn person who needs a more careful explanation -- just tell them the truth : " I 'm the sensitive type , and when I hear negative remarks , I soak them up like a sponge , and they affect me way too much . This is nothing against you -- but I have to protect myself . So when I hear you starting to tell me something that 's going to affect me this way , I 'm going to say , " I 'm sorry , Rafael , but I do n't want to listen to this . " ( And then if he tries again next week , say it . )
end question
start question
What is the correct procedure to report typos or errors in journal articles ?
If an error is grave enough to change the results , conclusions , meaning of a published article , the journal and probably also the author is keen to publish an errata to rectify the problem . If there is an error at a point but which is not carried through to the conclusions , I doubt an errata will result . Given that we can not see the example you are referring to , it is impossible to asses the gravity of the problem . But , since you mention a typo , I doubt that the article as a whole is affected but rather a sentence or a paragraph . So at best you approach the grey-zone . So , it would never hurt to write a short mail to the editor to check if the problem is deemed serious enough for action . Depending on how you perceive the problem , a mail to the author to check that your perception of the error is correct may also be pertinent . Which action you take first is of less importance , you may even decide to send a mail to both at the same time . Without knowing the details the best or most appropriate way forward in detail is difficult to judge .
I 'm answering within the context of UK Research Council funding : Some Research Council funding is allocated on the basis of specific calls for proposals ( aka managed mode ) : so for example there may be a call to set up a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand , and universities ( or consortia of universities ) will shape proposals to deliver a Centre in End-Use Energy Demand . As part of the call , criteria will be defined about the sort of things such a Centre should deliver , that will be more specific than the usual - impact , engagement , publications - though they will not go as far as specifying particular research questions . Bid applications will be assessed against the usual generic quality and value-for-money criteria , but also against how well they meet the specific proposal criteria . However , other Research Council funding is allocated in responsive mode : these proposals are driven wholly by what the applying Principal Investigator wants to research , and as long as it is within the remit of the Research Council , it will be considered , and assessed on its own merits . That is , the assessment will be against general criteria , and whether it is at all on-topic or not for that Research Council ; but assessment will not be against how well it meets a pre-defined specification for a narrow research area , because for responsive-mode , that pre-defined specification does not exist . Here 's <URL> : Grants are awarded in response to unsolicited research proposals in any area relevant to BBSRC 's mission . As a general principle , BBSRC allocates as much research grant funding as possible in responsive mode . You can apply for a variety of investigator-led research activities through responsive mode . ... Applications are assessed by the appropriate BBSRC Research Committee using the standard BBSRC competitiveness appraisal factors . Responsive mode funding is only available to Higher Education Institutes and Research Institutes , whereas the funding in calls for proposals ( managed mode ) is available not only to those , but in addition it is also available to other <URL>
If we momentarily disregard from discussions regarding the cons of ISI and Thomson-Reuters who run the service etc. and focus on the usefulness of ISI indexed journals for ones career , the answer is yes , at least to some extent . The importance is in part depending on your discipline since ISI indexing is not evenly distributed over disciplines . But generally speaking the ISI listing means the journal publishes papers that are referenced , which is an indication that it is research of some quality and importance . This does not mean non-ISI-listed journals are not " honourable " . But , when choosing a journal in which to publish , you need to make sure it is read by other in your field so that your research is seen and your ideas known by others . You should make a survey of journals that are of reference and if you find ISI-listed journals there is a reason to consier them if your papers fulfl their quality criteria because they will be seen as presigeous references when you are evaluated for a position etc. .
So far as I know , your understanding of the typical use of " embargo " for journals is correct : it is when a journal wants to be the " first to press " with its article , and so places a gag order on the authors and their institutions so that they do n't go talking to the press first . There is another place where journals also often want to be " first to press , " however , and I suspect that this is what " embargo " refers to in this case . It is often the case that a journal makes its content available through multiple routes : immediately through the publisher for a premium , and with time-lag through larger accumulations , such as PubMed or ScienceDirect . Thus , I think that what is probably going on here is that your institution does not judge this journal important enough to subscribe to directly , but gets it as part of a time-lagged " package deal . " You should check with your librarian how long the time-lag is , and then decide whether it 's worth waiting or if you want to ask a colleague to help you get around the paywall ...
Good engineering practice suggests : An executive overview : a couple of sentences ( 3 lines ) which states either " The objectives for the period have been reached . " or " The objectives have not been reached , because ... " ; then " No obstacle in the way to the next objectives . " Or " Possible obstacle are ... ; contingency plan is ... " . A summary : what were the objectives for the period ; then for each objective what has been done towards that objective . A little reuse of figures/graphs here is acceptable . a main results section , as space allows : here you select one or two " main achievements " from the previous reporting period , and you give more details about that , with possibly references to external reports / draft papers / additional materials that the report reviewer can go analyse if they are interested . an optional obstacles &amp; contingency section : if the executive summary lists problems , here you details what these problems are ( either the obstacles in the previous period , or the foreseen obstacles in the next period , or both ) . Also detail your planned contingency actions . a report of effort spent : here you detail where your budget ( and man-hours of work ) was allocated to each objective/task . Also , do n't make it too long . It 's extremely important that the reviewers of your project can get an overall impression of the progress in a very short time . ( they will typically have many projects to evaluate in a short time )
Honor is doing what 's right when no one is looking . If your institution 's Honor Code requires you to report cheating , I 'd suggest you report the action to your professor or a higher authority . This is good for multiple reasons : You can prevent the cheating student from gaining an unfair advantage over his or her fellow students . If they 're caught ( and punished ) , they might realize their mistake . If you never report the cheating , this student might sail through the rest of the term repeating the same mistake . However make sure the suspected cheater does n't come to know who reported him/her . You can meet the professor after the exam and explain what happened . If you do n't wish to reveal the person 's name , do n't . If you 're not comfortable with talking to a professor about your classmates , you can send an unsigned letter , explaining in detail what happened during the exam and if possible , include some ideas on how to stop them next time . Before you do anything , think of the consequences . What if the other student discovers you 're the one who reported the cheating ? How would you feel if you confronted the cheater directly ? If you ca n't imagine any of these situations , I suggest you let it slide .
Feel free to edit this answer to improve it , in particular to add other names you know to be used for the individual steps or to extend the maximum typical durations from your experience . The source for the diagram can be found <URL> . Overview <URL> Initial Check This step is usually performed by the non-scientific staff of the journal . It may include for example : Checking for broken files . Checking compliance with length requirements , if any . Checking central formatting requirements , e.g. , line numbers , if required by the journal . A plagiarism check . Excluding manuscripts of very low quality , such as automatic translations . Also known as : technical check , initial QC ( AIP ) , admin checklist ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays . Editor assignment or invitation Based on the topic of the manuscript and suggestions by the authors , an editor is assigned to handle the manuscript . Depending on the journal , the assignment may be done by technical staff , the journal 's chief editor , or automatic by submission category or author suggestion . With some journals , editors are invited and not assigned . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , editor assigned ( Editorial Manager , AIP ) , AE assignment ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays to several weeks . Editorial assessment The editors decide whether the paper should enter the review process or should be rejected directly , e.g. , because it does not fit the journal 's scope or requirements on importance or quality . A rejection at this stage is called desk reject . The paper may also be returned to the authors for reasons other than rejection . With revised manuscripts , the editors assess whether the existing reviews have been addressed adequately . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , waiting for potential reviewer assignment ( AIP ) , under review ( <URL> ) Typical duration : This strongly depends on the journal : With some journals , it is less than a week ; with others it may take a month , in particular if several people are involved in the decision or the initial quality hurdle is high . Peer review The editor selects a number of potential referees to review the manuscript . Should a referee decline to review or not perform the review in a certain time ( as given by the editor or journal ) , the editor usually has to select a new referee . The main exception to this is if the other referees already provided sufficient reviews at this point . With revised manuscripts , usually the reviewers from the previous round are selected . The editor may also decide that certain or all reviewers need not see the manuscript again , as their comments have been adequately addressed . Also known as : with reviewers , with referees , under review , awaiting referee assignment , awaiting referee reports , awaiting reviewer scores ( <URL> ) , reviewers assigned The initial selection of referees is usually comprised in the previous step . Some editorial systems give the status as with editors ( or similar ) if a new referee needs to be assigned and no other referee is currently assigned . Typical duration : This strongly depends on the field and journal . It typically ranges <URL> , but in some cases ( particularly for highly theoretical work where intense proof-checking is expected ) , it may be as long as one to two years . Moreover , the key factors for the duration of an individual peer-review process are how soon the reviewers find time to perform the review and how many reviewers decline or fail to review the manuscript . Thus , even for a given journal , there is a strong variation of review durations . Some journals give their statistics on this time ( or a related one ) on their webpage . Editorial decision Based on the reviews , the editors decide whether : The manuscript shall be rejected . The manuscript needs to be revised by the authors before it can possibly be accepted . If the authors submit a revised manuscript , the workflow is mostly the same as for the initial submission . The manuscript shall be accepted as it is . A decision requires further reviews . Also known as with editors ( APS ) , review completed , required reviews completed ( <URL> ) , <URL> , awaiting EiC decision ( IEEE ) , Editor Decision Started ( AIP ) Typical duration : A few workdays to a week . This may take longer with some journals , in particular if several people are involved in the decision . Copy editing and typesetting The article is copy-edited and typeset by the publisher . Occasionally , requests to the authors may occur at this stage , e.g. , due to low-quality figures . For some journals , a pre-copy-editing version of the manuscript will be put online at this point under a category like Just Accepted , with a warning that the current version has not yet been copy-edited and may change further before publication . Also known as : in production , in press Typical duration : This mostly depends on the publisher 's backlog . Usually between a few workdays to over a year , roughly correlated with the length of the publication delay ( see below ) . Final
Although far from perfect , <URL> is one citation-based indicator often used to quantify how quickly a field or journal is moving . It basically looks at how long a paper takes to get half of all its citations . So for example , a fast moving field might have a citation half-life of 4 years , whereas a slower moving field might have a citation half-life of over 10 years . In the Journal Citation Reports you can see these values for each journal . Of course , there is the question of what exactly this means . For example , I believe fields like statistics and mathematics have much longer citation half lives , perhaps because seminal articles remain important . Understanding citation half-life is also important when you want to compare impact factors for journals across fields , or compare citation counts and h-indexes across scholars .
I think that review articles can of course be original work , provided that they offer something like an analysis of the current literature . A mere list of positions and the people who take them is n't going to count as a contribution to the literature . However , showing people that certain pieces of literature form families that have resemblences to one another , or that a certain piece has been cited a lot , although people have overlooked another important , but unknown piece that calls its thesis into question , etc. . . those are all important , and indeed original contributions . I 'm guessing that your article probably is analytical in this way , otherwise it would n't have been accepted for publication in the first place . I 'd say that if it is a high-quality article , published somewhere respectable , then go on and include it in the thesis . Although obviously the usual caveats ( " Check with your advisor ! " ) apply .
The answer is : The Design chapter is the idea and outline you had in the beginning of what you would like to create , with the various components you think you 'll use , and the Implementation chapter includes all the issues that cropped up along the way , creating the need to change the original design .
I usually list a few examples and suggest editing by a native speaker/writer . If it 's really bad , I will do so as a request for major revision . I 've never had an editor complain about my doing it that way .
If you want to refer to his work ( i.e. his results , discussion or conclusions ) , you should cite it . If you want a reference to the particular piece of information he cited ( the sentences describing plasma etching before his call to ref . 4 ) , then you should find a direct source : either a textbook or review on the topic . This would be much better than a research article ( or thesis ) , especially one badly sourced .
I would construe " scientific report " here to encompass all forms of scientific publication and communication , including peer-reviewed papers as well as possibly internal technical reports . Remember that a technical report is just something that has n't gone through peer review . The exception would be if this were for a corporate position , where publication may be more difficult . In such cases , one would expect " grey literature " to be the primary " publication " mode .
It seems unlikely that a definitive answer would be available unless the site happens to host a member of the journal 's editorial board . However , their publication follows a January - April - July - October pattern . It 's now May , and their last published edition was in January , which means they have missed at least one issue . However , the January 2014 issue also announces a new editor , so they may simply have a disrupted schedule without being " dead " . So I 'd say " Not healthy , but possibly still alive " . Another missed issue in July would be a pretty negative sign . Alternately , you could try contacting the journal to find out ?
I have seen the term " Line Manager " used in the context of post-doctoral researchers here in the UK . I have also seen reference made in CVs to the principal investigator for the research project to which the author contributed , e.g. " I worked with Prof. X , Principal Investigator for Project Y " . The term " Scientific Co-ordinator " seems to be most closely related to this . Perhaps , therefore , the term " scientific co-ordinator " suits your purposes best .
Well you can put your published articles on arxiv just for visibility purposes , but you will be having problems with the copyright of the journals and conferences in which your work is published . Essentially , the editors will not get too busy to track you down , but it is not ethical . There is one way to go around this problem , publish in arxiv the draft versions of your articles , the ones that are a little bit different from the published ones . In that case you would not have any kind of ethical issues ( you can also put them on your webpage , but always look to the copyright forms ) Good luck !
For figures from your own papers , it would depend on the copyright transfer agreement you ( or the corresponding author ) signed upon publication . However , all copyright agreements I know explicitly authorize reuse of content for academic theses . As an example : the American Chemical Society , which does not leave the authors too many rights , <URL> : Authors may reuse all or part of the Submitted , Accepted or Published Work in a thesis or dissertation that the Author writes and is required to submit to satisfy the criteria of degree-granting institutions . Such reuse is permitted subject to the ACS ' " Ethical Guidelines to Publication of Chemical Research " For figures from others ' papers , a thesis is not very different from any other publication ( see the related <URL> ) . Unless your institution has a specific agreement with publishers ( as MIT seems to have ) , you have to either : ask for permission ; these days , it 's all done online and once you have located the appropriate form for a publisher , you can make your requests and get all the answers the next day rely on fair use in the US , or similar law in other countries ; around me , most people actually do that , either knowingly or just out of ignorance :)
When you cite any source , you should give enough that the reader can , at least in principle , read that source for themselves . This information is especially important when you cite something as a source for further information , as it is in your example paper . This paper presents the framework of such a complete phenomenological model _ outlined by Sayeedvafa ( 2002 ) that provides a description of a wide range of the observed behavior , which are both tractable from analytical as well as computational viewpoint . For example , citations of technical reports ( like your first example ) should uniquely identify both the institution and the report , so that the reader knows who and how to ask for a copy . In particular , if the report is available on the web at a stable location , the citation should include a stable URL . If a source is likely to be inaccessible to most readers ( like your second example ) , you should also cite an accessible secondary source that describes the relevant content in detail . ( If you really want to be helpful , the primary source citation should include a pointer like " Cited in [ xxx ] . " ) Otherwise , you 're just asking for the reader 's blind trust that the source has the missing details you claim , or proves the result that you claim , or is as important as you claim , or even exists at all .
The Journal of Advances in Mathematics and its publisher are mentioned in <URL> at Scholarly Open Access . The post explains why the post 's author , Jeffrey Beall , believes that the journal and its publisher are not legitimate .
This is an interesting question -- and yet when you think about it , it 's horrifying that we 'd have to consider even for an instant the propriety and legality of keeping our own annotated research materials . But , to provide a proper answer : In principle , this may depend on the terms of the license under which you downloaded these papers . In practice , you are very likely to be in the right , both legally and morally . In general , I believe that the licenses allow you to reproduce ( i.e. , print or save ) the document for research purposes -- without specifying a time limit or maximum duration of their subsequent use . See e.g. <URL> . If you are asking about the ethical/moral propriety of what you are doing , you are clearly in the right to retain your collection of papers and notes on those papers . In fact , you may even have an ethical obligation to retain those materials if the notes therein are necessary to reproduce any of your present work . As an analogy , think about what I did many years ago when moving from one university to another . I had an extensive paper collection of reprints , many photocopied from my institution 's library and many extensively annotated . I boxed all of these up and brought them with me . No one in their right mind -- nor even most copyright lawyers , I 'd imagine -- would have had me go through those files and discard the articles not in volumes held by my new institution . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice . It does seem to be good common sense , though , and sometimes that can be worth at least as much as anything a lawyer would tell you .
end question
start question
I would like to apply to Master in Japan but I have no research experience . Any advice ?
I 'm currently on a Masters program in Japan , and I also did n't have any experience with research at all when I had to write a research plan , which made me very stressed . As someone without research experience , how should I deal with this situation ? There is no other way . You 'll have to write your own research plan and contact your potential advisor . It is pretty hard to write a research plan when you have no clue , but here is what I did : Find something you would like to research that can actually be done at the lab you pretend to go . Read about previous publications on the laboratory 's homepage , read about your potential advisor 's areas of interest . You should know how to justify why you chose that lab as your potential advisor will probably ask you during email exchange . Now that you have something that can be done at where you want to go , you 'll have to justify why you chose that theme . Try to write about the potential applications of [ your research theme ] or how that will save the world or make everybody happy . Being able to strongly justify why your research is important is also essential . Describe concretely which approach you will take to tackle [ your research theme ] . Of course you might have no idea , but you should at least have a hint from the point you researched the stuff that can be done on the lab . Write a rough schedule of about how much time your research will take ( literature review , experiment designs/simulations , analysis , time for writing up your thesis etc ) . Your research plan should have at least introduction , objectives , methodology ( possibly with a schedule ) , and references . Include references from japanese authors if possible . Remember that there is some flexibility , and once you are here you might find other research themes that are also interesting and/or more feasible than the one you initially planned . Contacting your potential advisor is also a very important step . Professors from prestigious universities receive a LOT of emails and yours may just be easily ignored depending on your attitude . Depending on the university 's guidelines , you 'll have to first introduce yourself to the university 's international office ( " Kokusai-ka " or 国際課 ) , which will then contact your potential advisor . You should be very humble and polite . Of course they might not expect it from an international student , but it will give you a positive image . Overdo it and you 'll look desperate . In the first email , apologize for the sudden contact , introduce yourself , write up which university you 're coming from , from which major . Say that you 've read [ potential advisor ] 's articles about [ research theme ] and that you 're interested in doing research under his/her guidance , and ask if that is possible ( the lab may be full capacity ) . Do NOT attach anything in the first email , it 's suspicious and will look rude ( like you 're pushing something for them to do for you ) . If you are lucky , you might receive a reply within 2 weeks . If it is positive , you may be asked to send your research plan , academic transcript , TOEFL or JLPT certificate and possibly be asked some questions via email or Skype . At this stage you will probably be fine . In case your first option gets rejected , write another email from scratch for other potential advisors ( read his/her papers , etc - they suspect when the email looks like it had just one or two names changed , it suggests that you send the same email for many other places and conveys that you are desperate ) . In any case , be prepared not to receive any reply at all . I tried contacting over 15 potential advisors/laboratories and got replies from 3 of them . I got rejected from one because the lab was full , and from another one because I did n't have a JLPT certificate . Is there any taught master program in Japan ? I 'm currently in a taught masters program in STEM field . We have many lectures , tests , appointments , seminars , etc. pretty much like undergrad , except that grading is mostly done by assignments instead of tests . Of course , it will depend on your university and department .
If the paper is well-written , contributes non-trivial knowledge to a particular field , is peer-reviewed , and you contributed significantly enough to the paper to be listed as an author , you should put your name on it . In the case of fields where pre-prints are common ( i.e. , it wo n't be peer-reviewed , at least initially ) , it is also worthwhile . What you do n't want is to be an author on a poorly written paper . In other words , you should be proud to list a publication on your CV even if it is n't exactly in your primary research area . Especially at this stage in the game , having a few good papers will help your case , even as a second author ( and keep in mind that some fields , such as theoretical computer science , should have the authors listed alphabetically and all authors are considered primary ) .
This could be a big deal and something you should report and , alternatively , it might not be a big deal or reportable . The difference comes in the context . Are the editted images presented as legitimate data or results that are the raw output of the experiments/research ? By which do they say something like " In image blah taken by an electron microscope you can see that the magical unicorn bonds have been created by our process . " ( Keeping in mind that I know nothing about bio-chem and ' magical unicorn bonds ' is a stand in for some actual process ) . Or in CS something like " Here you can see the robot we built " Statements like this imply or outright state that the object or information in the image is not just representative data but actual results or output . Data like this should not be manipulated or edited except for clarity ( circling a targeted area or adding minor labeling ) . The other kind of image is a bit rougher . These images can demonstrate what was expected to be seen , abstract output from the research , conceptual information . These kinds of images often are edited or manipulated . Sometimes as a demonstration of what was expected ( " We would expect magical unicorn bonds to appear after our procedure but instead ... " ) or as an explanation of something more abstract ( " the robot should follow the optimal path as shown here when it uses the stairs instead of running repeatedly into a wall " ) . These are things that are no reportable . They can be in poor taste and they absolutely should be caught by reviewers if they imply results beyond the scope of the actual research . But , in some fields , these are the best way to demonstrate expectations , abstract information or background information . All that being said - when you say the image is from a " commercial software " that makes me wonder if you mean not that it was created with " commercial software " but is actually an image from some commercial source . In this case the image may be copyrighted and it may not be appropriate , at all , to use in this research . This will depend on the image , the source and the ' tampering ' . As a counter example to this in the realm of computer vision every uses the standford bunny model in their publication . It 's a thing . This is not inappropriate . Someone using an image from a text book , however , or a Google search that they do not own is inappropriate and should be first reported to the PI of the paper and , potentially , the publisher if no action is taken .
Hmm . If you want to build a relationship with a researcher or potential mentor from a distance , step one would be to send a short email to sound the person out . Here is a possible outline : ( How I got your name -- if a professor recommending contacting the name , that is especially favorable -- but do n't lie ; if it 's through looking for articles on Topic X , and finding some articles on the internet , that 's okay ) What I have read of yours , and why it was very interesting for me A succinct statement of what I am working on , my institution , my advisor , etc. . Mention that I have one or two questions related to my research that I have not been able to resolve locally ( perhaps give reason ) , but I think this is an area you are strong in , and may I send you my question ? If he responds and says , Go for it , do not send him the whole manuscript unless he asks for it . Succinctly summarize the information needed in order to present your question .
This professor was just trying to reassure the folks who are feeling doubtful or worried . Bottom line : if you feel worried about something , that 's okay , it 's a common phenomenon , and feeling that way is nothing to worry about ; if you do n't feel worried about something , great ! No need to feel worried !
( Assuming USA ) Yes , you can apply if you are graduating in the summer . No , I do not see any reason why you should not do this . You should probably explain your plan and the reasons for it in your application .
If you do not have publications ( including papers " in press " ) then the publications list can be left empty . If you have papers . You can , however add headings for publications " under review " , if you have any or " manuscripts in preparation " , again , if you have any . You may also have unpublished reports of different types . Such contributions can also be listed under a separate heading . What can be included is difficult to say but in my case , I used to include annual reports I had to write to a super-computer center and a research station , both which were collated with others and printed by the organising body . So any report sitting in a drawer is not valid . Obviously the a " manuscript in preparation " will not be very strong but it will at least indicate that something is ongoing . But , note that a manuscript in preparation should be something worth reading to make it to such a list . In a situation like yours any written material prepared for some official body and with some distribution , can be used to indicate your activities . There is a grey zone which is undefinable ( which is why one generally avoids such listings later in the career ) , so do not put in anything . In short , you need to be able to show these " claims " .
When you submit a paper to a journal , you are implicitly agreeing to make a reasonable effort to publish the paper in that journal . But you are not signing a contract that requires you will make absolutely every change that the referees suggest . In the end , it 's your name on the paper . If the editor has actually rejected the draft ( e.g. " revise and resubmit " ) , and you are not interested in sending revised work , there are few direct consequences . You only need to write an email to the editor saying that you have carefully considered the referee 's reports , and that you would like to retract your submission . It is polite to acknowledge the referees at the same time , since they have spent time on your paper . But see the note of caution below ! If the editor has accepted your paper ( e.g. " accepted with minor revisions " ) then I would recommend making a good faith effort to revise the paper . This is what you implicitly agreed to by submitting to the journal . Of course , you do not have to make all the changes , or make them exactly how the referee wants . But you want to make a good-faith effort to address them in your own way . You do n't want to cultivate a reputation as someone who is not willing to make even reasonable changes to a submitted paper . One word of caution : it is not entirely " safe " to retract a paper and then submit it in the same form elsewhere . The new journal might end up picking the same referee ! <URL> on this site about this exact issue . I recommend reading that entire Q &amp; A thread , actually .
Generally speaking , every statement in a published mathematics paper needs to have a proof somewhere that the reader can find it . ( If this paper is for a class assignment rather than for publication , ask your instructor . The rules are also a little different for " expository " papers which are mainly intended to discuss previous work , rather than to present new results . ) If you use a result that is well known , you can mention it by name . It is not necessary to include a formal statement or proof , nor a reference . This would apply to results that are found in most standard textbooks in your area , and that most people reading the paper would be familiar with . If you use a result previously proved by someone else , give a reference to the paper containing their proof . It is often also helpful to give a formal statement of their theorem . You do not need to include the proof in your paper unless you think it will be specifically helpful to the reader ( for instance , if you are planning to extend the same ideas yourself ) . For an original theorem , not previously proved by anyone else , give a complete and careful proof .
If you are unsure of your ability to complete the task , you should go immediately to your advisor and/or the other committee members to get as much help as they can give you . That is not much of an answer , but I want to supplement it with this : in this case , asking for help on the internet is potentially problematic . Being assigned a paper and asked to read and understand it in three weeks sounds like a situation which is close to a " take-home exam " . ( Maybe it is n't , and maybe you are not understanding the assignment . Find out . ) If so , getting help on the internet on your exam may not be kosher . Anyway , most graduate students in most graduate programs in most fields do not automatically or easily understand cutting edge papers . The whole point of the graduate programs is to give them the help and training they need to do this . So you should be doing what you can to get that help and training , not worrying about whether you are worthy in some cosmic sense . Good luck . Added : For those who are confused by the discrepancy between the answer and my comment above : the original version of the question included a lot of content-related information , including the title and author of the paper itself . I was worried that could lead to getting content-related help from the internet . The current version of the question is totally unproblematic in that regard .
In Germany it is typical to apply for public funding through the federal ministries such as BMWI or BMBF . You can look up funding programs at the BMWI Förderdatenbank . You will find some information about the programs of the BMBF <URL> ( in german ) . Usually the ministries have certain topics open which you can apply for with a consortium of different industrial and academic partners . At least that 's how we get public funding . See <URL> for a currently open call for application .
Just because it 's not published does n't preclude being able to cite it . You ca n't not cite the thesis if you 're taking information from it ! The degree-granting institution should perpetually retain copies in its library , and most universities these days store PDF copies as well . A copy may be harder to track down , but a determined reader should have no enormous difficulty in getting a copy of the thesis . Example : Smith B. ( 2013 ) , General Relativity , MSc thesis , University of Cambridge , UK .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
Work experience normally refers to internships or part-time jobs you 've done with companies besides your university , or actual employment positions in your university such as working in the library or grading papers . Research experience is related to academics , so it should be treated as such . I know you get paid for it , but it 's used to augment your undergraduate experience and thus adds value to your degree .
Networking is key -- check out <URL> to <URL> . Find people in your university who are willing to recommend you to the other researchers in the field , whom you would like to work with . Take advantage of the connections your faculty members have developed . Then write a killer cover letter . aeismail notes that <URL> was the only reason he even considered an individual for a research internship . Research the PI and tailor your letter to his/her interests and current project .
Quick Answer : The downside might be his age , but the upside is plenty ! It is obvious that the age might be a factor , however you are not dealing with a dance instructor or a body builder here . Look at Prof. Stephen Hawking , beside his age , there are other limitations ; but everyone listens to him and want to learn from him . Put his name on a conference , and people will line up . The following points popped up in my head : Experience : Being dominant in a field for any amount of period , let alone 3 decades , is not easy . What you will get is a world of experience and vision ( my second point here ) . Vision : It is not all about hard work to be on the top , the individual needs to have a vision of the field as well . You will have the privilege to lean how he come up and deal with research issues . Believe me , I had supervisors that did not have the ' vision ' part , and working with them was not pleasant . Less Politics : He already ' done it all ' , and therefore not looking forward that much to the next promotion or something of that sort ; what you get is a person that everyone knows that he is the leader in a field ; so all the help you get you from him ; you get it through no or much less jealousy and/or office politics . Decision On Your Overall Career : If you get a position to work with a young supervisor , you ca n't truly answer the big question : What I will do after my PhD ? . However if you work with an experience academic , you can see yourself after 20/30/40 years . You can see how hard you need to work to get there and is it something you want to do or not . Conclusion : Take the position , there might be a little downside because of his age , but the positive points are plenty .
For two years , it was just me and my advisor . We were in the same building , but nobody else did anything like our work in our department . It 's hard . I would suggest looking for ways to branch out -- particularly at your institution . You 'll need committee members . Start looking early . Presumably there are some people in your department ( or another department ? ) who do something tangentially related . Try to get their input at least once per semester so that you keep the lines of communication open . Try to network with others in your subfield . If there really is a dearth of people you can talk to at your institution , you 'll need to look beyond it . Ask your advisor ( s ? ) if they would be willing to introduce you to some individuals . Going to a conference is excellent for this . ( Some believe it 's worth going to at least one or two conferences per year as a grad student even if you are n't presenting , and even if you have to pay for it yourself ! ) Networking beyond your institution has numerous benefits after graduation , as you can imagine . You could also do this by sneakily asking really good questions to a select few people who publish in your field ( most journal articles include contact info ) . The above approaches are aimed at finding people you can talk about your research with . We 're not merely research-bots , however . Loneliness in general is a real problem that hinders a lot of grad students in a lot of ways ( e.g. imposter syndrome , depression , and so much more ) . Grads who are already isolated from others ( grads and/or advisors ) are often more prone to it than others . Research aside , I would make sure that you have friends at your institution that can relate with you . They may be able to give better , institution-specific advice for you as well . I was part of a group of grads from a variety of departments . Their friendship and support was what got me through grad school . Good luck !
Yes , it is entirely appropriate , especially if you come to them in person and just knock on their office door when they 're around and ask if they can spare 5 minutes to answer a question or two . If you are nice , polite , curious and fun to talk to ( and you sound like all of those things to me ) they may easily end up talking to you for an hour . Busy or not , professors are people and love to procrastinate just like anyone else . :-) Email is a lot less likely to work , but again , I do n't see it as inappropriate , simply less effective . And do n't overthink it . Knocking on someone 's ( even a stranger 's ) office door is not the same as hugging them , and not every decision in life should be agonized over and analyzed in minute detail . Just try it , the worst that can happen is ... nothing .
My undergraduate GPA was much lower than yours . My MSc GPA was also lower than yours . I got admitted to a top 40 US school ( engineering and fully funded ) . I had good recommendation letters and few journal publications . This was five years ago . I know there are few guys here who have similar GPA , etc as your . So , It 's very possible !
While I largely agree with Ian 's answer ( ORCID might matter in the future , but does n't right now ) , I see one place where it may already matter and a reason why it should come to matter more in the future . Right now , there is a strong implicit presumption of the uniqueness of a scientist 's name , and all of the literature searches and citation databases , etc , of the world get rather confused when you have a person who either a ) shares the same name as other practicing scientists or b ) has a name that changes over time ( e.g. , marriage , gender identity change ) or is represented differently ( e.g. , transliterated ) in different papers . On this site , we have a number of good , difficult questions dealing with the problems that <URL> cause , which is particularly acute for academics in countries that do n't use the Latin alphabet ( e.g. <URL> ) . These problems will grow in importance as the number of practicing scientists grows and becomes more diverse , and as the duration of the readily searchable literature grows as well . In short : there is a rapidly growing need for something like ORCID that makes it easy to distinguish scientists without context-sensitive text mining . Whether ORCID is that thing , and how long it will take for it to be widely adopted and effective , are both open questions .
end question
start question
The advantages of Latin when studying mathematics and logic ?
If you 're interested in history of mathematics , then Latin would very likely be helpful ; until the 18th century or so , most mathematics done in Europe was written in Latin . For studying modern mathematics , Latin is n't so useful . I 'm a mathematician and have studied a little Latin , and it has n't really been directly useful . Sometimes it helps a little in understanding a word 's roots , but not much beyond that . On the other hand , I do fairly often need to read a paper in French ; there 's a signficant amount of current and recent mathematics research written in French . However , this is n't too hard even though I 've never formally studied French . The vocabulary and language used in mathematical writing , while specialized , is quite limited . And I know some Spanish , which is helpful in figuring out the grammar where needed . So for mathematics , neither one is strictly needed , but given the choice I 'd choose French .
Submit the course ( or module - ) descriptions for the examination department/office . The target university needs a basis for their decisions to make . A description of the course containing information about the topic ( a syllabus ) , learning goals and skills taught , the workload and the examination conditions , will help to decide whether a course fits into your major or not and if it can be granted with transfer credits and so on .
This is a good question , but there is no consensus as to a good answer . Some people think mathematics is obviously a science , some people think it obviously is n't , and some just are n't sure . It 's common to include mathematics as a special case of science in general discussions . For example , universities usually classify mathematics under the sciences , and " scientific publishing " would generally be understood to include mathematics . However , there are exceptions , and abstract discussions of science often do n't apply very well to mathematics . If this distinction matters in a given case , then you 'll have to discuss it explicitly , since you can never assume everyone will agree by default . If Math is part of science , what kind of science is it ? The most compelling answer I 've heard is that it is a <URL> . However , this terminology is somewhat obscure , and it is certainly not a consensus answer to your question . When people say STEM , do they mean Math is separate from Science ? I do n't think the intention is to assert that they are definitely separate , but rather just to have an inclusive acronym we can all agree on .
I strongly dispute your assertion that knowledge of the more general subject is not needed for the more specific subjects . To use your own example , general biology will include general cell anatomy and metabolism and probably some basics of evolution . More specialized courses like anatomy and endocrinology will make no sense without these basics . Even when a direct subject material connection is not obvious , in a well-designed set of courses there is often an important dependence in skills . For example , in the mathematics classes that I took , there was not much direct connection in material between Analysis and some the higher-level subjects like Abstract Algebra and Topology that had it as a required prerequisite . However , Analysis was the subject where students were expected to learn how to properly approach and formulate mathematical proofs , and the higher-level subjects assumed these skills . Likewise , many engineering departments have a required " general engineering " subject for freshmen , which drums in the general philosophy of engineering through hands-on applications in various areas : even if an electrical engineer never uses a machine-shop again , the " engineering way of thinking " that they have learned will be critical to their success later on . Returning , then , to your basic question : there 's an awful lot of knowledge in the world , and much of it simply is very specialized . General classes give the foundation required by many different specialized subjects , and so a well-designed curriculum tends to naturally form a " tree " structure that starts general and becomes more specialized as one progresses deeper into a subject .
The University of Cambridge 's <URL> recognizes a " Licenciado with an overall grade of between 8 and 9 out of 10 " as " At least a 2i honours degree from a UK university or an equivalent standard from an overseas university " , but also says that it 's equivalent to a Singaporean Master 's degree . I 'd guess that most universities would consider it definitely equivalent to a Bachelors and probably also a Masters degree .
I believe that this sort of disclosure can be ethical , especially to a neutral third party , and when only discussing papers that have already been accepted and/or published elsewhere . ( Papers still in the process somewhere else might be different . ) . Anonymity of referees is n't a deep ethical good in its own right - it has very clear and specific reasons , and this does n't seem like a relevant violation . Consider the reasons why referees are often given anonymity : 1 ) to allow referees to give honest feedback without fear of ( real or imagined ) retaliation , 2 ) to encourage authors to engage with the referee 's arguments , not their personality or status , 3 ) to avoid the appearance/possibility of quid pro quo reviews , and 4 ) to ensure that broader perceptions of the article are not influenced by knowledge of its referees . None of these problems would occur by giving the names of articles to a ( I 'm going to assume ) completely uninterested immigration clerk . If you want to be very conscientious , google your contact to make sure they are n't doing immigration processing to make ends meet while an adjunct professor :)
There 's a wide range of people called adjunct faculty . For example , it may include working professionals in the field who serve as part-time faculty ( this is common in law and architecture , and I 've seen it with industrial researchers in computer science ) . Depending on the circumstances , this sort of adjunct may be treated much like the other faculty in the department , except for being part time . However , I assume you are talking about the most common use of the term " adjunct " , at least in the US , namely low-paid , low-status faculty typically teaching part time on temporary contracts . ( They may be working full time overall , but only part time at any given institution , so the universities can avoid paying benefits . ) For this sort of adjunct , it really depends on the details of the contract , and it may vary between universities , as well as depending on issues such as whether any of the courses are online . A typical arrangement will include some amount of course design ( at least at the level of creating a syllabus ) , lecturing , grading , and office hours . Typically there is no committee work or other service and no research duties .
There are quite a few issues to be careful about when considering a recommendation letter from an employer . Some examples : Make sure they understand the culture of academic recommendation letters . In industry , lots of the time recommendations are more-or-less a token statement that someone worked for you and did n't cause any issues . Academic recommendation letters are very different , so make sure they have an idea of what kind of letter to write . What exactly is the background of your letter writer ? This is a bigger issue with PhD ( or research-based masters ) recommendations , but if your recommender does n't have the background or credentials to understand what it takes to become a successful researcher or academic , then it 's unlikely that they will be able to speak intelligently about whether you have those traits . How common are industry to graduate school moves in your field ? In a field like mathematics or physics , my guess is that most candidates do not have significant work experience and any work experience is usually far removed from the subject material . In a field like that , the people evaluating your profile are more likely to discount an industry recommendation , especially if it comes from a non-PhD , non-researcher . On the other hand , fields like business or engineering have many more applicants from industry and are probably used to seeing those recommendation letters , so it is unlikely to put you at a significant disadvantage . How well are your other bases covered and what are your alternatives ? If you have recommendation letters that already focus on your undergraduate classes and research , then it may be more valuable to have a letter describing traits you exhibited in the workplace than another " he got an A in my class " letter . In general , an employer 's letter is never going to be as good as a great letter from an active researcher that you worked closely with . But most applicants do n't have three of those on hand . Can a letter from an employer be useful ? Definitely . Given the alternatives , is it the optimal decision for you ? It 's possible , but that depends on a lot of factors that you should probably spend some time thinking about .
The Journal of Advances in Mathematics and its publisher are mentioned in <URL> at Scholarly Open Access . The post explains why the post 's author , Jeffrey Beall , believes that the journal and its publisher are not legitimate .
Actually , the NSF , in its <URL> , does not actually define the concept of an " investigator . " Instead , it chooses to define the different categories as " senior personnel " and " other personnel . " Typically , postdoctoral fellows and graduate students fall under " other personnel . " Personally , in such matters , I would opt on the side of caution and just have the graduate students fill out the conflict of interest form . It does n't take very long , and having it in place makes life easier for everyone .
If I had a two day a week class , I would have it before class on Tuesday , and after class on Thursday . And also by arrangement , if someone could n't come because of their class or work schedule . At my school , the rule was two hours for each class . There 's no recommended amount of time where you are ?
In the past , at least , the default seemed to be that the list of all recipients showed up on the form of the records sent to graduate programs . I know this because I was/am on admissions committees and saw such information . On another hand , I do also know that it is possible to suppress it , since in recent years most GRE reports seem not to show this to admissions committees . Unfortunately , I do not know how the examinee arranges to suppress that information . It certainly is not done automatically , despite the obvious point that it should be private .
My own busy-person email triage has three tiers : No response needed = near-zero cost Minimal response needed = minimal cost Response with significant thought and care needed = significant context-switching cost A brief " thank you " email would go into category # 1 : no bother or burden , but noticed and appreciated all the same . In other words , send the email : it 's not a significant nuisance , and it 's nice to be appreciated .
It is also polite to write a cover letter , even if nobody asks for it . And the purpose is often to ease the process of finding the referees , so helping to do so by giving insights about the paper that can not be write in the paper is a good thing . If you mention potential referees , I guess it will not be sent to the chosen referees . Otherwise ( in my experience ) it is . You do n't have to praise your results in the cover letter . Just state shortly the results ( say more than the abstract , less than the introduction ) . If you think that there are issues related to the paper , this is also the place to state them ( conflict of interest , new way of considering something - which can hurt someone 's feelings - , direct negative comment on related work , etc. ) . If you think that , because your paper is gap-bridging , you need reviewers from several fields , you should say it as well .
Academic jobs are a nightmare from the HR perspective . While the posting might be on the jobs portal , the files themselves initially go to the hiring department which comes up with a long and then medium list that they then do some preliminary screening before ending up with a short list for on-site interviews . This can take several months . The search committee then comes up with a ranked list with some candidates " above the line " and some " below the line " that the department votes on . This list -- which may have one , two , or three people that the department thinks are hireable ( or in some cases , none , if the search fails ) . This list then goes to the provost , equal opportunity , and numerous other sundry university committees before getting approved ( or not ) and sent back down the line . This can take several more months . So we are now 4-6 ( or 6-8 ) months into the search . The search can have several results : A single finalist who is contacted . Maybe they dawdle for a couple of weeks in giving a reply . If they decide not to take the job , then the search is failed . The department may or may not be authorized to search again next year and if they are , the search remains open . Two finalists . The first accepts ( or not ) . If the first does n't , the second is given a chance . If both decline , then it 's a failed search . No finalists . Failed search and the slot goes back to the provost 's office . It may or may not be returned to the department . The provost hates all of the finalists and either cancels the slot or forces the department to re-run the search . In other words , there are many reasons why a job posting might still remain open even one or two years after the initial posting . Departments are hesitant to finally close files unless they are absolutely positive that they are never , ever getting that slot back again -- or that the person who accepted the offer really is going to show up on August 1st .
So far as I have ever been able to tell , " referee " and " reviewer " mean exactly the same thing .
Is it generally true that mathematics professors do not / can not engage in consulting work external to their universities ? No , it 's not true . Doing external consulting may be less common among mathematics professors than among faculty in certain other academic disciplines , but it 's fairly common nonetheless . The professor would need to make sure that the consulting arrangement they are entering into is compatible with their other responsibilities , and specifically ( in connection to the theory you mentioned in the question ) the intellectual property policy of their university . While this issue is not something to be casually dismissed and certainly it can create difficulties in some cases , there are still many consulting opportunities in which the work the professor wants to do would not be in conflict with their institutions ' IP policies . Examples may include : The professor is on unpaid leave from their institution so the IP policy does n't apply . The professor is doing the consulting over the summer when they are not receiving a salary , so again the IP policy does n't apply . The consulting work is of a kind that generates deliverables such as code or data analysis that the IP policy does n't apply to . Specifically , in the U.S. all university IP policies I 'm familiar with apply only to patentable inventions and do not cover copyrightable content , which remains the property of the faculty member . If the consulting work does not require anything sufficiently creative that it might result in a patent , there is no conflict . ( Of course , the professor still needs to make the contracting company aware of their IP-related commitments and let the company make the decision about whether they are willing to take the risk of losing rights to a valuable patent . It seems likely that some companies in some situations would be averse to entering such an arrangement , as you described in the question . ) The consulting work is in an area sufficiently unrelated to the professor 's area of research that the IP policy does n't cover the work . The professor takes sufficient care to perform the consulting work on their personal time and without using any university resources . In that case , depending on the legal jurisdiction it may be the case that the IP policy can not legally apply to them , since courts in certain places have ruled that an employer does not own work their employee has created in the employee 's private time and using private resources , even when the employer claims otherwise . Finally , I was discussing consulting to commercial enterprises , but mathematics professors also engage in various other forms of consulting to governmental and non-profit organizations , where IP restrictions would usually not be much of a consideration . For example , in the U.S. it is quite common for professors to be invited to sit on panels for the National Science Foundation and other funding agencies . This is a form of paid consulting , although it usually does n't pay very much .
That is a rather confusing request , actually . However , what I think the job offer is looking for in a " statement of interests " is a description of the research areas you are interested in , while the " statement of research " would be a listing of projects you 'd plan to start if you were hired . However , in many job postings , those two items would potentially be conflated into a single statement . So I 'd recommend that you contact the department . I 'd recommend doing this by phone , if possible -- that way , you do n't have to give as much identifying information .
I have never heard of this journal , but from the website it seems legitimate based on its publication history ( extending back to 1995 ) and its institution of origin . What your nephew should do now is just settle in and wait , and do n't bother emailing the editors . As a commenter said , one month is not nearly enough time for a journal to process and review an article . It 's usually more like 3-4 months and could possibly go longer than that . And the editors of these journals probably get so many emails from authors requesting status updates that usually those emails are simply ignored -- or if you have a nice editor there 'll be an automated reply that says , in so many words , " Please stop emailing me . " The frequent emailing could even backfire . Recently I submitted an article to a journal , with a student co-author , and was told they 'd get back with me in 9-12 weeks . Six months passed and I had heard nothing . I emailed the editor and asked to make sure she had everything she needed ( = polite way of bugging her for an update ) . The editor said she would check with the reviewer . One day later I received the review -- a three-line rejection letter that indicated clearly that the reviewer had not even read the article . To me , there is a strong likelihood that the article was rejected directly because the reviewer was annoyed at being bugged . This is clear malpractice , but what are you going to do about it ? Welcome to our wonderful academic publishing culture . So , tell your nephew to move on to his next project and let this simmer on the back burner until the end of the summer .
If you 're interested in history of mathematics , then Latin would very likely be helpful ; until the 18th century or so , most mathematics done in Europe was written in Latin . For studying modern mathematics , Latin is n't so useful . I 'm a mathematician and have studied a little Latin , and it has n't really been directly useful . Sometimes it helps a little in understanding a word 's roots , but not much beyond that . On the other hand , I do fairly often need to read a paper in French ; there 's a signficant amount of current and recent mathematics research written in French . However , this is n't too hard even though I 've never formally studied French . The vocabulary and language used in mathematical writing , while specialized , is quite limited . And I know some Spanish , which is helpful in figuring out the grammar where needed . So for mathematics , neither one is strictly needed , but given the choice I 'd choose French .
end question
start question
Where can I find the IEEE list of research topics ?
The IEEE makes their ' Taxonomy ' available <URL> ( linked to in their Author FAQ under the Publications page ) , but this is only a hierarchical list without the designations you have given to identify something as the C.2.1.h topic . Surprisingly ( to me ) , neither the author kit nor the editorial manual discuss this hierarchy . In contrast , for the American Institute of Physics , the PACS codes are available on-line at <URL> .
As the class you TA is a programming class , I 'll suggest two options I 've used - that have worked well for me ( after Googling Stack Overflow and Github of course ) . Both these options start by asking conversational questions ( " How are you doing ? Are you enjoying class ? " ) to help relax the student - when talking about the code in the next part hesitations and mistakes can be used as an indicator for a lack of knowledge but not if it is just nerves . Option 1 : better for mid-level to advance classes : Look at their coding before hand , make sure you have some notes on their coding style , preferred methods , and level of knowledge . Then select one of their programs and ask them to write out on paper/chalkboard/whiteboard some code that solves a similar problem . Let them know that you do n't expect error-free code and that if they ca n't remember an exact method to just use something close ( depending on the class pseudo-code may be acceptable ) . The point is that a person who has done the assignment should come up with something that follows the basic logic and coding style that was seen in their assignments - if it is way off you know they likely did not write it themselves - many times leading me to start option 2 with them . Option 2 : I would honestly use 2 or 3 assignments for this method . As it is easier to see if the progression makes sense this way ( a person does not typically go from if/else to building generators and decision trees in the span of a class or two * ) and it gives more material to discuss . Starting with one of the programs , I would then ask very open-ended questions about how the student came up with their solution . You want to avoid fact questions as your trying to see the knowledge and thought process not just a memorization of quiz answers . You can ask follow-up questions here but keep them limited and still open ( " can you explain that more " , " why did you use that particular method " , " did you try anything else " ) . Your looking for a few things here : Someone who wrote the code for themselves should flow through the conversation naturally - without having to pause and think about their answers as often . The student should be able to explain each method . If it is a complex method they may get lost or make a few minor mistakes - but they should be able to explain all the concepts . The thought process they describe should make sense . This should include both the method used and the reasoning for using that method : " I decided on a for loop over the dictionary keys as that just seemed more elegant and easier to maintain then the massive if/elif/else statements " . I 'm probably missing a few here , but the point is that your experience and knowledge will usually make it pretty obvious if someone actually wrote the code or not based on just how they explain it . * I had one student who did just this . Turns out he had been programming for a few years and was picking up the language at a much faster pace .
Google scholar works pretty well , though with all of these things there are edges cases that cause problems ( non unique names , random poster presentations showing up counting as citations , etc. ) I find that ResearchGate tends to be pretty good . People can comment , annotate , and more generally fix up the metadata issues on this site in a social media style , and so it tends to be pretty accurate . However , since it 's still quite new most papers are missing from its databases ( though it still tends to count citations correctly ? ) .
Generally in UK academic institutions , you are paid based on your " grade " on the pay scale ( for posts up to but not including professor ) . If you were asking if you would receive more than 1.0 FTE in pay , I believe the answer is no , as you would no longer be on the regular scale . Your pay is based on your post , and the research funding would contribute to the University 's costs and overheads , as well as your pay . The HR office would not let you be paid more than you should receive according to their calculations . If you mean holding more than one Research Associate post , while still receiving the same pay , this depends on your institution . I have many colleagues working on multiple projects simultaneously . They 're putting in more than 1.0 FTE of effort . As to their official FTE , I believe thy are officially 1.0 FTE , and they are a Research Associate " for " a given member of staff . Their time is then " unofficially " ( for want of a better term ) split between multiple projects . I am sure this will vary between funding sources and institutions , as to what is tolerated/the norm . In this case I reference , however , this is not a case of holding multiple RA posts ; rather holding a single post , which works on multiple projects . Since their post is not tied strictly to a single project , the FTE is perhaps not the best metric to gauge them by .
The UK graduate schools are officially ranked through <URL> ( being currently phased out to be replaced by <URL> ) , so you can get a full list of programs that are of any worth <URL> . In the US , rankings are produced from time to time by the National Research Council . <URL> is from 2009 . The methodology and reporting format are beyond weird , but at least the list of programs is useful ( albeit difficult to navigate in the Excel file format ; I found my area , statistics , under " Physical sciences " , for instance , which is a very distant shot ) . The <URL> were done with involvement of real statisticians , so I trust them better .
In general , you can put pretty much whatever you want in your CV ( unless there is a template , in which case deciding what to put or not should be pretty straight-forward ) . The question is : what is the point of putting a piece of information in your CV ? Usually , a CV is used in the context of a recruitment process , where the point , in the end , is to give reasons to the recruiter to recruit you instead of someone else . Hence , a piece of information contained in a CV should be instructive , for instance by ensuring that you do have the proper credentials , or by providing evidence that you can be apt to the position you are applying for . Perhaps attending conferences is something relatively rare in your field , and you have attended more than the average PhD students ? In that case , listing all the conferences you have attended could indicate you are very interested in keeping up with recent advances in your field . It could also show that you enjoy travelling . Perhaps you have secure internal or external funding to attend that conference ( i.e. , the funding was not automatically given ) ? That 's also good evidence . You could list them if it provides evidence for an aspect that you are willing to emphasise in your application . On the other hand , if the conferences you have attended had nothing special , or do not help emphasising any particular point , then you might want to keep the space in your CV for something else .
In the past , at least , the default seemed to be that the list of all recipients showed up on the form of the records sent to graduate programs . I know this because I was/am on admissions committees and saw such information . On another hand , I do also know that it is possible to suppress it , since in recent years most GRE reports seem not to show this to admissions committees . Unfortunately , I do not know how the examinee arranges to suppress that information . It certainly is not done automatically , despite the obvious point that it should be private .
Seems it is n't actually that important . I sent them an email to clarify and they replied : Do n't worry too much about the standing of the journal or conference , as long as you list any publications and conferences that you have .
Update from March 2016 : it seems like ISI Knowledge offers citation counts with person-level self-citations taken out . Any of that should be treated as experimental , of course . Do n't know if this could work for a journal . I do n't think any of the existing systems take out the self-citations . The publishers and journals are not interested in seeing reduced impact factors , so few editorial boards and fewer yet commercial publishers would be interested in anybody producing such rankings . If a discipline has its independent referencing and citations systems , they might be interested in such more objective analysis -- e.g. , economists have their CitEc ( Citations in Economics ) , a part of RePEc ( Research Papers in Economics ) , which does track self-citations ( see the 2012 Nobel prize winners , <URL> and <URL> as examples ... the first one has as many self-citations as the second one , total citations ) . I would venture a guess that mathematicians might have a similar system . But I doubt that natural or social sciences do . The high impact journals are obviously important for publishing , getting good academic jobs and getting tenured . However , impact factor may only tell a part of the story , and some disciplines have reputable journals that may not have the highest possible IFs . Let me take again economics as an example that I am familiar with . In most US departments , you 'd get tenured if you have a paper in either American Economics Review , Quarterly Journal of Economics , or Econometrica . ( The QJE is often said to mostly publish MIT and Harvard folks . ) AER is only 19th in <URL> ( which may be as good as any other list that 's not password protected by ISI ) , and I have never heard about some of these journals . The AER 's impact factor of 2.5 is not even funny for a biologist seeking Science or Nature publications , though -- the impact factors of the latter are what , 30 or so ? I work in industry and tend to care little about the journals outside of my area ( statistics ) ; generally , statistics journals tend to have IFs between 0.25 and 4 . The reality of my particular field ( survey research ) is that people just submit their paper to proceedings of the annual conferences and move on with their paying projects , and do n't have the time to BS back and forth with the reviewers . There are people in academia who need to publish-or-perish , so you would see some typical academic papers with rather small contributions to the knowledge , but their authors either have their own time or slave labor force grad students to write these up . As a guiding rule of what journals to avoid , you can start with commercially published journals and respect the professional organizations publish their journals themselves , without Wiley or Elsevier grabbing them as a source of income ... although I can imagine that coercive citations is what the editorial boards insist on , which may or may not correlate strongly with who publishes a given journal . I have received requests to cite the given journal more ( this is a problem for disciplines with an overproduction of journals fighting each other ; again , in my industry , there are probably four or five decent ones , and they do n't need to fight ) , but tended to ignore them .
Generally speaking , the name of the person registering does not have to be the same as the name on the credit card . You can pay for your co-author 's registration if you want . the IEEE discount applies if the person registering is an IEEE member , regardless of who is paying . If your co-author is registering to attend the conference , it 's fine for him to use your credit card ( if that 's what you want ) and he can still get the IEEE discount , since he 's an IEEE member . If you 're the one registering to attend the conference , you ca n't get the discount if you 're not an IEEE member .
I have seen some cases where PhD students remain for 7 , 10 and 12 years , and it seems that they are cheaper labor than postdocs , so advisers in general would like students to stay as long as they have enough funds to pay their tuition . Would long period in a PhD program and good publication record be a positive or negative for a hiring committee ? How long it 's appropriate to stay in graduate school depends on the field and the country . For mathematics in the U.S. , staying too long quickly becomes a bad idea . ( I 'm counting time spent actually working , not time off with a good excuse . ) Five years is considered a reasonable and normal amount of time to take . Seven years looks too long , and it will give hiring committees the impression that something went wrong and you were unable to graduate in the usual timeframe . Ten years is a major problem : I do n't think most math grad schools would even allow ten years of full-time enrollment , and it would look terrible if someone spent ten years in grad school , even if they accomplished a lot along the way . The best-case scenario is that it would look really eccentric , and people are n't likely to look at it so charitably . I imagine that most academic fields work similarly , but with different timeframes . To estimate how it works in your case , you could look at how long other students in your department spend in grad school and what becomes of them afterwards . As faculty or postdoc positions at top schools are getting hard to land , should Ph.D. students interested with research continue to work as research assistants and publish more , or try to get a teaching position or work in industry and then try to move to a research position ? It 's occasionally a good idea to spend another year in grad school even when you could already graduate . For example , if you have almost completed a particularly exciting project , your advisor may recommend that you 'd do much better applying for jobs after it 's complete rather than before . However , these sorts of situations are uncommon . At least in math in the U.S. , things typically work roughly as follows : If you 've spent a normal amount of time in grad school and are ready to graduate , but you do n't feel you 're competitive for a top postdoc , then your chances of getting such a postdoc probably wo n't go up much next year and they might go down . You 're generally better off taking the best postdoc you can get and then trying to do your best work in that postdoc , rather than sitting in a holding pattern in grad school . Getting a teaching position could be a good career move in itself , but it 's not the best way to position yourself for a research-oriented job in the future . Whether an industrial job is depends heavily on your field and on what sort of industrial job you have in mind . If you ca n't get a research postdoc at all , and your only options are a teaching job or a non-research-related industrial job , then you should keep in mind that moving to a research university later may be very difficult . I would n't go so far as to say it 's impossible , but it will be an uphill battle that is unlikely to be successful . It could still be worth trying if it really matters to you , but you should n't view this as a routine or straightforward path to a job in a research university .
I do n't have the statistics at hand for the case of students . But there was recently a publication of mobility statistics for scientists on 16 countries : <URL> <URL>
If your institution has a subscription to Journal Citation Reports ( JCR ) , you can check it there . Try this URL : <URL>
There is nothing wrong with acknowledging an editor that goes beyond what can be expected . It is of course not customary to provide such acknowledgement in most cases . Editors do not expect it and it may simply appear as inappropriate attempts at flattery . It is difficult to draw the line where acknowledgements are appropriate but , I have probably acknowledged editors in a couple of percent of my own papers . I have also been acknowledged a couple of times in my capacity as editor ( out of editing hundreds of papers ) , all in cases where I have felt my assistance would save a paper that could otherwise be buried undeservedly . In any case , your description seems to fit a case where the acknowledgement is appropriate , although no editor would probably expect it .
This is indeed a weird question , though not an uninteresting one . Fundamentally a name is a pointer to a person , of a formalized and official sort , but of course for every person there are multiple phrases that point to them . Any article byline gives a mapping to the set of objects named , and the idea that perhaps this function need not or should not be one-to-one is a very curious one . I do n't know a general principle to invoke from which to deduce the " injectivity of authorial bylines " , but multiple names pointing to the same person would be highly nonstandard and powerfully confusing to many . I 'm not sure what to make of the fact that your example of a name change is motivated by a sex change . Name changes are common occurrences for people of all genders , and the percentage of name changes which are motivated by issues of gender identity and/or sex changes is very small . The largest percentage is surely when people ( not just women , though still more women than men ) get married , and then comes people who have moved from one part of the world to another where their name is difficult to pronounce , written in a different alphabet , sounds like something undesirable in the language of their new home , and so forth . Also papers published in one language are often translated into another , with the effect that e.g. many Russian authors are known by several moderately different names in the anglophone academic community . Adding a clarifying note that say that multiple spellings point to the same person could be helpful . In <URL> the byline is " Yuri G. Zarhin ( Zarkhin ) " , which is perhaps the closest thing I 've seen to the practice you 're asking about . However , there are nuances in your question that suggest the sex change example is not accidental : you actually mean to consider deeper issues of personal identity . In other words , what if beyond changing their name , someone considers themself to actually be a different person ? I get this for instance from What happens if Jane never worked on the project , can she be the author or does it have to be John ? The obvious answer is " What are you talking about ? Jane Doe and John Doe are the same person . So of course Jane worked on the project . The fact that the name ' Jane ' was not applied to this person while she was working on the project is totally irrelevant . " However , it could be that Jane feels that she is really a different person from John . Maybe she arranges [ illegally , perhaps ; I do n't know how this works ] to get a new social security number and otherwise systematically denies and delinks her new identity from her old one . In that case it could be meaningful -- even critical -- to her that Jane did n't work on the project , rather John did . However , though Jane 's perspective is a highly interesting one , it is not going to hold up in the practicalities of an academic career , as she presumably wants to regard John 's training and credentials as her own . If she tries to make a CV of Jane Doe 's work only , she is going to at best confuse everyone and more likely shoot herself in the foot . It would be worth hearing from a transgendered academic [ I am not one ] for more nuances about this . My understanding is that the above exigencies essentially require them to explain carefully in their CV that they have changed their name from John Doe to Jane Doe and thus can not professionally behave like they are two different people . If you are including the identity " John Doe = Jane Doe " anyway , then if it has deep personal significance to you to list yourself as John Doe on a paper that you worked on while you were John Doe even though you now sign all your papers Jane Doe , you can make that choice ( and certainly it is your choice : the idea of anyone else telling you what to do here is somewhere between cruel and absurd ) . What you can not do is list both John Doe and Jane Doe as authors . Well , not unless you wish to be truly transgressive : perhaps there are some areas of academia in which the jarring , confusing nature of such a byline would be viewed positively .
When you get an academic degree from a German university , you usually get two official certificates . One ( labeled Urkunde ) is official proof that you hold the degree but does not include a grade . The other ( labeled Zeugnis ) is official proof of your grade but ( according to some bureaucrats , though I suspect they just like to make life difficult ) not of the degree . I think for doctoral degrees it is common that these two documents are combined into one , which is then also labeled Urkunde , or in this case Promotionsurkunde , but includes the grade . The grade for doctoral degrees is still often in Latin , in which case the best grade is typically summa cum laude , followed by magna cum laude . A normal practice to make sure applicants actually hold the degrees they claim to hold is to ask for photocopies of their degree certificates along with the application . This timing makes it less awkward to ask for proof . Also , faking a certificate , even if it 's only a fake photocopy , is a more serious offence than just lying about a degree , and at that point the reward of this more serious fraud is n't even certain yet . It is also possible to ask for a certified photocopy . I am not sure why this is done ; maybe it repels a few more liars . German universities are in fact not allowed to hand out any data about their faculty and ( former ) students . I would consider the spreadsheet linked above a weak form of corroboration . Weak because it looks more like someone 's personal effort than an official list . ( Even two dissertation titles are missing . ) Of course , technically even a valid doctoral certificate is not proof that the holder of the certificate really holds the degree . There might have been a subsequent revocation . One factor that may lead to even competent people committing fraud is the requirement of thesis publication . Once all other requirements have been satisfied , people usually get a warning that they are not allowed to use their degree before publication of the dissertation . As far as I know this is done quite consistently because even with the warning it does happen occasionally . Of course this is less of an issue nowadays , as the publication is often done electronically . ( I earlier wrote that standard practice was to hand out the certificate before publication . Some people protested , and I must agree that what I wrote was obviously wrong . It does n't make sense for universities to hand out proof of something that is not true yet , and they do n't do it . Sorry . )
Use a license . Different open science journals/repositories/etc . allow you to license your publication ( s ) / data/etc . Some allow you to choose a license ; others do not . Others may have different repositories . For example , <URL> gives submitters <URL> : arXiv does not ask that copyright be transferred . However , we require sufficient rights to allow us to distribute submitted articles in perpetuity . In order to submit an article to arXiv , the submitter must either : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . The <URL> journal has <URL> : All papers are made freely available under an open access model immediately on publication at the Royal Society Open Science website and are deposited in PubMed Central on behalf of the author . Under a Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY 4.0 ) , authors retain copyright for their article but allow anyone to download , reuse , reprint , modify , distribute , and/or copy articles provided the original authors and source are cited . Once a license is chosen , all that remains is to enforce the license , which is simple enough . License enforcement is up to the holder of the license . If you choose the first of arXiv 's options , then the responsibility is arXiv 's ; if you license the work under one of the Creative Commons licenses , then the responsibility is yours . The enforcer of the license general is not required to enforce it if he/she/it so desires ( see <URL> on Open Source for more information , although that covers the GPL license , which is not applicable here ) . It 's typically in the best interests of the license holder to enforce the license , but there is no requirement . If you want to make sure that the license is enforced , then you would be best off keeping the license yourself .
If you perform a search for " examples of bad student papers " or " examples of bad writing " you should find many examples . As an added bonus , many of the examples are then analyzed to provide suggestions for improvements .
Try <URL> . I guess the topic you are looking for would fall under <URL> .
No , it 's not OK to cite URLs because firstly , you are citing ONLY the URL ! The URL could change at any given time without notice . Also , you are assuming that everyone is reading your paper electronically and has access to the internet . You NEED to give the name of the paper , the author ( s ) , the Journal it was published in and the year it was published .
end question
start question
How does a professor know when a research project will get expected results ?
The interaction between student and professor should not be a one-shot set-a-problem . Instead , they should be talking frequently , often once a week , and adjusting the nature and direction of the project based on what is being learned during it . The project starts with some idea , from either the professor or the student , that the professor thinks likely to lead to an appropriate outcome within the available time . As time goes on , the student should come to learn more about the project than the professor , and be reporting progress or lack of progress . The professor should be continuously evaluating whether the current line will lead to a good result , and encouraging redirection if not . I am sure my doctoral dissertation was not at all what my advisor would have expected when I started on the project - it was a result of things I learned during it .
If you think your advisor made an error , then I would suggest you figure out how to prove he made an error . This is the first step to showing someone they 've made an error without being ignorant or arrogant ( the rest follows from general customs about politeness , but you absolutely must do this first bit . He supposes , presumably in good faith , that he proved something to you ; the " burden of proof " that he 's wrong now lies in your hands ) . Besides , this is a good exercise . Lots of things do n't seem like they make sense until you yourself figure out how to make them make sense to you . This can be a lot of work . This act of " hacking " someone else 's grand idea until it makes sense to me is how I spend most of my time . Thankfully this often leads to totally new ideas and directions that the first guy did n't see ( or thought too trivial or obviously wrong to mention , yes that happens too ... ) The problem is that , in very many fields , undergraduates are actually extremely frustrating to work with . They do n't yet speak the language , or have the baseline knowledge that all of your colleagues share . But nonetheless , this person is not the ideal advisor if he lacks the patience to put up with a lot of questions -- this is absolutely normal behavior for an undergraduate advisee , totally to be expected and many advisors find the interactions quite rewarding ! On the other hand though , you have some hard questions to ask yourself . Basically , you say that you want to ask questions without sounding lazy , but you must be honest with yourself about whether or not you are in fact asking lazy questions . The research process ( again , at least in fields I 'm familiar with ) is most emphatically not " do exactly what some famous guy told you to do . " It generally involves painfully slogging through material that no one really understands and proving everything you think you know to yourself repeatedly , and then to others , and then occasionally having it pointed out that you made a really silly assumption , or that some obscure paper already solved everything you had set out for . Again , the point is to create new knowledge , and so you have to know your tools inside and out . In fact , if your advisor is explaining anything at all clearly and to your satisfaction , what he is explaining is , by definition , old knowledge .
You ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper until it is made public ( by the authors as a preprint , or by the publisher ) . In particular , before that point you ca n't refer to the paper , you ca n't use the ideas without referring to it , you ca n't publish or otherwise disseminate results based on it , and you ca n't discuss it with other people , including your collaborators . It can be really frustrating to know something important and be unable to tell anyone else for the time being , but there 's no way around it ethically . The reason is that submitting a paper for publication is not considered to release it for other use or dissemination until it is actually published . The people involved in processing and evaluating it ( most notably the editors and reviewers ) have an ethical obligation to keep all information about the submission strictly confidential and not to use it to gain any personal advantage . Once it is published of course it can be treated the same as any other paper , and in the meantime the authors can choose to make information publicly available via preprints or talks ( in which case others can follow up on this information as appropriate ) , but nobody else is authorized to release any information before publication beyond what the authors have chosen to share , or to use it for any purpose other than reviewing the paper . Otherwise it has the same ethical status as using material you stole off the authors ' desks . There 's no reason why the research community has to work this way in principle , but it 's the system that has evolved over time . ( Note that as recently as the 1930 's , famous physicists were <URL> as to how peer review should work . ) It 's possible that in the future we will move to systems such as submitting for publication only after releasing a preprint . That seems to be the trend in some fields , but we have n't yet made a full transition if we ever will , and the community 's ethical principles still offer protection to authors who choose not to distribute their paper before publication . Nobody signs a non-disclosure agreement when reviewing a paper , but the ethical principles are well established . Deliberately violating them would be a serious form of misconduct , which could easily be career-ending if it was more than a minor or technical violation . Pete L. Clark asks in the comments whether referees are allowed to prepare follow-up papers , as long as they do n't distribute them before the original paper becomes public . I.e. , does the " you ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper " really mean you ca n't do anything , or just that you ca n't disseminate anything yet ? ( Let 's assume it 's a single-authored paper that is not discussed with anyone else in advance . ) My interpretation is that nobody can stop you from thinking a little , and you may not even be able to stop yourself , but actively working on and writing a paper of your own would be abusing your position as referee . There probably is n't a consensus as to exactly where the line is for what 's strictly forbidden , but either side of the line could still look terrible . If you want to publish work you began thinking about as a referee , I 'd strongly recommend against doing it so quickly that 's it clear you had to have known about the original paper in advance .
What helps , I think , is that " research " is not a single thing but a complex of many different activities . If I am feeling burned out on paper-writing , perhaps I find my joy in coding or mathematics or sketching new project ideas . Likewise when I am happy about papers but feeling burned out on something else . At a larger scale , even a " unified " line of research has many distinct facets that may feel quite different when one is actually closely engaged with it . Thus , I see no difficulty in the idea of remaining interested and engaged for a long period of time . I have been so for nearly 20 years ( counting undergraduate research work as well ) and I see no reason to expect my interest to fail any time soon . Funding , of course , is an entirely different story .
Taking on an undergraduate for a short-term research project is , especially in theoretical and computational fields , essentially an act of service on the part of the professor . By that I mean that usually the professor will put in much more than they get out of it . This is because the student will usually need a significant amount of one-on-one tutoring , or at least time , to understand what needs to be done and learn the tools that will be used to do it . That leaves little time ( in a summer ) for actually producing research results , and since it is likely the student 's first project , progress is likely to be slow . If the professor is at your own university and you have already established a connection and a good impression , then they may be willing to do it based on that . The next best situation is to have a professor who knows you well recommend you to the professor at the other university . But if you 're cold contacting a professor who knows nothing about you , you need to demonstrate that You 're in a good program and have excellent grades ; you have familiarized yourself with some part of their research ( as well as you can with your current level of preparation ) ; You have good communication skills ; and You have some tools that are useful in the indicated field ( e.g. substantial programming experience , experience with particular methods or techniques ) . All this needs to be in a short email ( a long email probably wo n't get read at all ) . Even the above quite often be enough . Of course , if you are exceptional in some way then make sure to highlight that . For instance : You have some published research already You won a major award ( e.g. you placed in the top few worldwide in the IMO ) You did something else that shows you have aptitude for the field and includes a tangible , demonstrable result The last one might be something like " I implemented computational method X in C and used it to solve this interesting problem ; here is the code on Github and the results . "
At my large R1 state university in the U.S. , it might be impossible to get tenure without having an active grant at the time , even with an otherwise excellent record , since mathematics faculty disinterested ( or hostile to whatever the specialty or person in question might be ) would use this as grounds for doubting the quality . After all , supposedly , all the best people are funded . Supposedly , endorsement by the NSF ( or NSA ) is an external , objective test of quality . This is certainly a convenient assumption for arguments in certain directions . EDIT : and since a strong super-majority is needed for a " positive " tenure vote , even irrational ranting can sway otherwise uninformed or disinterested people to scuttle the vote . Issues of external funding are apparently even more identified with research activity by engineers ( and experimental scientists ) , who often dominate the college-wide tenure ( and promotion ) committees . That is , it is sometimes apparently unimaginable that a person would be doing research without a grant . Further , at my university , in other hard-science departments , often large grants are allowed to " buy out " faculty from any teaching at all . This is rare in my math department . EDIT : thus , in the minds of some engineers , " teaching " is stigmatized , since in their own depts it 's only the disenfranchised who have to do any of it . And then there 're the wildly different paper-count standards for experimental science/engineering versus mathematics . The literal " funding of research " usually is less critical , apart from the expense of travelling to conferences , and extra summer salary .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
The employing professor will not have access to this data . You can omit anything in this form . The data from this form goes to HR and is aggregated there so they can prove to auditing bodies that the staff distribution is not skewed ( i.e. that they are not discriminating on basis of whatever )
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
[ Citation ] means that Google Scholar has not been able to find a source for the publication , but that it has inferred that it exists because other publications cite it . Taken directly from Google Scholar help " These are articles which other scholarly articles have referred to , but which we have n't found online . To exclude them from your search results , uncheck the " include citations " box on the left sidebar . "
There is a strong need for learning research methodologies , and many postgraduate research courses require as prerequisite research methodology evidence . The good news is that many institutions do offer specific courses in research methods ; the better news is that many offer distance learning and there even some MOOC/Open learning options available . Below are some examples that I 'm aware of ( I 'm sure there are many others ) : <URL> ( Open ) <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( Open ) <URL> There are also a <URL>
I would advise against it . I do n't think most people have in their heads a list of " good universities in my field " . When advising students who they know on where to apply for grad school , they try to recommend schools based on everything they know about the student , their interests , talents , constraints , etc. . For a student who they do n't know and have never met , this would be hard to do effectively , and I do n't think most people would really be interested in trying . If you send such an email , I suspect you will either get no response , or a brief " Sorry , I ca n't help " . Instead , I would suggest that you talk to a faculty member in your field at your own university , someone who knows you well and whose opinion you respect . They would be a much better source of advice for you .
In the US , it is very unusual to combine the title " Professor " with a first name . I have never been referred to as " Professor Tom " in my whole career . You can either write " Dear Prof. Smith " , using the family name , or " Dear John " . You should only write " Dear John " if you would call him " John " when you speak in person . ( For people you have n't met in person , the decision is a bit different ; but for people who you know personally , this is a good rule . ) For example , my students generally call me " Prof. Church " , but sometimes after they graduate I invite them to call me Tom ; in this case , it would be perfectly appropriate to send me a letter beginning " Dear Tom " . I would use " Hi John " only to convey a very informal tone . Even with colleagues or students with whom I 'm good friends outside of work , I still use " Dear Mary " when contacting them about professional business . For this reason , I do n't recommend using " Hi Prof. Smith " ; it mixes an informal term with a formal term .
the most senior professor in the room contradicted me This may happen due to any reason . ( my supervisor was not there , he had an unexpected meeting ) Probably , your supervisor was clear about his decision regarding you and the rest was just a formality ( which actually happens in some cultures ) . So he chose to skip that ceremony ( and attend that unexpected meeting ) because he knew his decision would matter alone . What should I have done in the situation ? Assuming that your supervisor had a green signal in his mind for you ( which , of course , you can guess from the situation ) , you should have done nothing but tried to pass on with any reasonable negotiations . Even if the above assumptions are wrong , you should have still done the same , because , considering your this statement : I said a certain method was rather new ( which it was ! ) Especially , which it was ! part , nothing can go wrong . Of course , the reasonable negotiations would involve , you trying to defend that with solid arguments and references , while at the same time humble enough to listen to his criticism and show respect to get along .
Find the hallway where your department 's faculty have their offices . Knock on the first door . When the professor answers , say " Hi , I 'm [ name ] . I 'm a master 's student , and I 'm interested in doing research . Do you have some time to talk ? " Repeat for the remaining doors . ( It also helps to have some idea what kind of research you want to do , and to do some background reading on the professors ' research before you talk to them . We like it when students say " I read your paper on X , and I have a few questions . " )
Its difficult , and rare for faculty to move from non-research oriented schools to research oriented schools , particularly at the senior level . To be hired as a senior faculty member , you generally have to be specifically recruited , and someone has to make a case that you , specifically , would substantially strengthen the department . This is because making an offer with tenure is a huge commitment for a department , and much more expensive than hiring a younger scientist . So what you have to do is be a visible leader in your field . When people think of your field , they should think of you , and when their university thinks of expanding their coverage of your field , you should be one of the first people they think of .
I wrote him an email to ask quick but important questions , like , when do you want me to start . I did n't get an answer even after a week . And similar things happened before as well . Some professors are notoriously bad in answering emails . This does not necessarily mean anything . Do n't fret about it . So I want to ask that as a professor , sometimes will you ( on purpose ) to NOT answer emails in time ? I 'm not a professor , but , no , this is not how I would expect an adult person ( in a management position , none the less ) to behave . If the professor is indeed having second thoughts about you and decided to just not answer anymore , I would say you dodged a bullet there . However , I really think that this is unlikely . Just send a polite reminder , or propose to have a quick chat e.g. , over Skype , at a time of the professor 's convenience .
I 'm in Australia , and from my experience , almost every unit is evaluated every semester that it runs in pretty much all Australian universities . There might be a few exceptions , but this is just standard practice . The standard survey consists of a bunch of closed ended questions and then some open ended questions for more qualitative feedback . From this perspective , there 's nothing special about whether the instructor is a famous professor or a relatively unknown academic . Student evaluations are just a standard component of university life . It would be strange to make an exception , just because the professor is famous . More generally , student evaluations serve a wide range of purposes and the relevance of most would not change whether or not the instructor is a famous professor . Such evaluations give the instructor feedback about how the unit was received by students . It can highlight areas for improvement . From a university perspective , it creates some accountability and some metrics that can be monitored . Of course , there are also plenty of issues with student evaluations . And there is the potential if they are used inappropriately that they can create perverse incentives for instructors : e.g. , simplifying education , grade inflation , and so on in order to have " happier students " . But that 's another issue .
The point of a letter of recommendation is for the receiving party to obtain third-party verification that you are , indeed , awesome . Generally speaking , people like to receive letters from individuals who know you well professionally . In most cases , teachers can not write good letters , as they only know you as a face in the class , and never really got to know your work ethic , personality , and capabilities . A research advisor would be able to comment on all those things , and would be able to write a much stronger letter .
First , you can always research anything you want on your own time and your own money . Thus , I assume that your question boils down to what range of research topics will I be able to get paid for ? That depends heavily on : Your level of ability . If you are sufficiently outstanding you can get awards that will fund you to research whatever you want at almost any career stage . For instance , grad students who have , say , a government fellowship ( in the US these are things like NSF , or DOE CSGF ) are often given a lot more leeway to pursue their own research agenda . But such fellowships are rare and highly competitive . What 's more , almost any professor will be willing to take such a student . At the other end of the pool , if you are a relatively weak student it may be difficult to even find an advisor , and when you do they will probably require you to follow their research plan . Similarly , a young professor who gets a CAREER award can more easily follow their interests . Your communication skills . If you can give persuasive presentations and write excellent grant proposals , you will be able to obtain more funding for the projects that interest you and therefore be free to work on them . You may also be able to buy yourself out of teaching responsibilities and so spend more time on research . Of course , this is intertwined with # 1 above . The nature of the research itself . In experimental or observational areas , you need to buy equipment . If you want to study gravitational waves ( observationally ) , you will need a lot of money -- or collaborators with a lot of money -- to get started . Finally , let 's talk about career stage . The three factors above are operative at every career stage . There are brilliant grad students who can work on just what they want because of their talent , and there are tenured professors who can hardly do research at all because they are required to spend nearly all their time teaching ( this may also be a choice -- research is not the top priority for everyone ) . That said , on average your freedom to direct your own research increases at each successive stage . The " restrictions " at each stage are well illustrated by the comic linked in the comments above .
end question
start question
Should the captions in a figure list include their references ?
Assuming that the thesis preparation guide from your university says nothing about this , I would approach the question by considering the purpose of the figures list . The point of the figures list is to make it easier to find these key elements of a very large document ; the caption fragment is intended to help a reader find the figure that they are looking for . There are two typical approaches to making these such caption fragments , either of which might be reasonable : List the exact caption for each figure , so that the list can be more complete . In this case , you should keep the references , since they 're part of the exact caption . Make a one-line summary of each caption , so that the list can be more compressed . In this case , you should remove the references , since you are making a digest in any case . If you have lots of very long captions , option # 2 is probably better , as otherwise it defeats the point of the index . If your captions are all fairly short , then option # 1 is probably better , since it provides a fuller summary of the contents of each figure .
Should I omit my master 's supervisor from Referees list in PhD Application ? Almost certainly no . Your master 's supervisor is likely the only person who can actually speak to your ability as a researcher . As someone who has done well on their coursework , their recommendation is the most valuable to you . The fact that he wants you to continue with him is good ! If he did n't , he probably would n't recommend you to anyone else ! I 'm confused and I 'm not sure if I tell him that I do n't want to my PhD with him , Will he write good remarks about me or he 'll write bad remarks so that I do n't get PhD position somewhere else . This would be incredibly unprofessional and unethical . That 's not to say that it 's impossible , but you should have a good idea of whether it is likely based on your interactions with him . You should not assume this will happen unless you have a bad feeling about him already . Another problem is that if I tell him straight forward that I am not interested to continue my PhD with him I might lose this opportunity as well . This is just something you will have to bite the bullet and do . Since you have n't already promised that you will do your PhD with him , he has no legitimate objection . If he is acting in good faith , he should not withdraw his offer from you . There is absolutely nothing wrong with applying to multiple supervisors . If he seems angry that you are , then you definitely do not want to do your PhD with him . Of course , he may then decide to hire someone else , so it is possible you will lose the opportunity , but this is unavoidable . You can not have it both ways .
The context for what the CV is going to be used for is key . I have a single CV that includes " everything " since I started grad school and selected things from before then including seemingly unimportant part time jobs . Having a long CV makes it easier for me to create short CVs because it means I need to delete things instead of remember things . For your intended context , I would not include the work experience , but might include the degree in politics . Including that degree will likely lead people looking at your CV to think you are older ( which might be a pro or a con ) . If you are worried about age discrimination , I would drop it completely .
The following is condensed from advice for academic job hunts that I 've read <URL> and <URL> - I imagine it should be somewhat applicable for jobs in industry as well : If you would be applying for a position at Fall , begin applying from summer the previous year - applications tend to be sorted during committee meets , and the earlier you apply , the fewer applications are there , so there are higher chances of getting your application noticed . Hence , you 'll want to draft your research statement , teaching statement and curriculum vitæ ( CV ) the summer before your search . If you are applying for industrial as well as academic positions , you probably want more than one resume , since achievement , skills , and goal-oriented resumes can be more effective in the industrial setting . The middle of January is when most schools stop accepting applications . Even then , keep submitting to any position you find through February , particularly if someone there recommends you apply . You will probably hear back with invitations for interviews in January and February , but sometimes even March and April . Get your letter writers primed as early as possible . You 'll need at most six letter writers , but no less than three , and you 'll want to ask them at least a month in advance with all your documents .
The order is determined by the standard applied by each journal to their publication . In some cases , references are listed alphabetically in the reference list . In this case , the order of appearance of the numbers in the text may seem random ( this is equivalent to your cases 2 and 3 ) . In some cases , references are listed in the order they appear in the text . This yields the first example you provide . So there is no right or wrong , there are different standards and which you need to follow is given by the journal in which you aim to publish.If you are concerned with which system to use in a report or your thesis , you should simply check with your department or organization to see which they follow . If there are no guidelines , I would suggest the system you find most commonly used in journals that lie close to your subject but you could essentially select whichever one you want as long as it is consistent and logical .
You can get a list of researchers who have Google Scholar profiles and have identified themselves with the field , ranked in order of total citation count by searching for researchers in that field on Google Scholar , via <URL> . That 's not quite the same thing but will give you some of the answers you are looking for .
In anthropology , it 's pretty common to use local terms in both the title and subtitle . Almost everyone romanizes the terms rather than using the native script . And they leave explanations and glosses to the body of the dissertation itself . That being said , when it comes time to submit to a book publisher , they 're more hesitant about local terms in titles . The issue is that they are legible only to people who already know the local language or culture , so you 've automatically limited the appeal of your book . But there have been some notable exceptions : Travesti : Sex , Gender , and Culture Among Brazilian Transgendered Prostitutes Toms and Dees : Transgender Identity and Female Same-Sex Relationships in Thailand The Soul of Anime : Collaborative Creativity and Japan 's Media Success Story In the examples above , the exceptions prove the rule by either being obvious to English speakers ( " travesti " = ? transvestite ? ) , close to English ( " Tom " is obvious , " Dee " adds an element of curiousity ) , or already a loan word in English ( " anime " ) .
Most programs I 've ever heard of do n't randomly assign professors - but the typical system in the US I 'm aware of has each professor required to teach X number of credits . The department has requirements for what class must be taught ( like standard intro classes , courses required for the major , etc ) , as well as the opening for a variety of specialty courses ( often called " electives " ) - but the core courses have to be taken up first . While departments differ , it seems the most common system is one where professors pick the classes they will teach ( sometimes by seniority or department rank getting their first pick , sometimes by some other method ) . The natural order of things is that it 's easier to teach a class the second time than it is to teach it the first time ( since you already have so much material prepared and you have had some practice now ) , so professors naturally end up teaching many of the same classes year after year . However , most departments have comings and goings nearly every semester - retirements , people leaving , sabbaticals , medical leave , changing course load amounts ( buying out of teaching , becoming a department chair , not being the chair anymore , winning a big grant , having a big grant run out ) . Thus things are constantly in flux , so even if you really , really wanted the same courses taught by the same professors every semester - you ca n't have it , it is n't possible . There is a downside to having things static , even when you somehow manage to have so much stability that it 's possible . Some examples : Many professors get comfortable with the material enough that they do n't make large updates , and it can get stale and out of date over time ( both materially and in method used ) . Professors , being human beings , get bored of saying the same thing over and over and their excitement , passion , and patience can begin to wear thin even with classes they once enjoyed . Some students are n't a good fit with some professors , and if a required class is always taught by a professor they do n't get along with this may interfere with academic progress . Professors can lose sight - or just not have a good idea to begin with - what the goal of teaching some material actually is . Most programs have courses that build on each other , like Introduction - > Research Methods - > Stats - > Advanced Research Methods . If you only teach stats and do n't ever run an advanced class , are you sure you are teaching the stats students will need - and are you emphasizing applications that best prepare them for the advanced material ? If you teach a Calculus I class , are you making sure students get all the groundwork they need for Calculus II ? I 've had students tell me " the Professor assumed we all had JavaScript in the previous class and designed the whole class around it , but half of us had never seen it before ! " - with not very encouraging results . However , there are downsides to moving people around a lot too : The first time is always the hardest . No one knows what to expect , every question asked will be one you might not have answered before , the teacher 's idea of pacing and time required to complete assignments will basically be wild guesses , etc. . Sometimes someone is asked to teach a class because no one else is available . I talked with a visiting academic who was a statistician , and he said in his first semester they came to him and said , " Hey , have you ever used C++ before ? " He said , " Well , I guess a little bit in undergrad ... " And so they said , " Great , do n't have anyone else to teach this required class - will you teach a C++ class for us ? " So he just had to figure it out as he went . It is n't ideal , but the alternative : no class offered that semester , which may mean students ca n't take required key classes or they will just miss out on learning important material entirely . Sometimes everyone just has the make the best of a non-ideal situation - come to think of it , that 's what most of us have to do most of the time ! In the end , there is a first time for everyone . Experienced professors had to teach a class for the first time too . Sometimes this can even be a positive experience for everyone , if the professor and the student choose to handle it that way . One of the hardest things about teaching people is when you 've forgotten what it was like to not know . You can all learn together , and it can be easier to have empathize with students confusion and anticipate their questions when you are confused and have questions too ! The job of a teacher is n't always to be an expert bestowing their grand accumulated wisdom , but instead sometimes they are just a guide and skilled companion to help you through difficult territory . ... and sometimes neither of you want to be there , but it 's a required course and the department is making them teach it so you suck it up and move on . :)
My general answer would be : No . Summaries should summarize the work/report and anyone reading the summary will not need to go to references to check on sources since those are given in the report itself . I can see exceptions from this if one or two references are key to the report by for example , being ground-breaking or by being in conflict . Then it may be important to show from where the key aspects originate and to perhaps list the single r couple of references after the text . But , the persons reading the summary may not be familiar with referencing so make sure you know your intended audience and the style they are familiar with . It may still not be necessary to provide references but to reference the material by stating the author name ( s ) and the place of publication without reference details . Again , the report summarized in your Exec . Summary will have the details .
Copying my comment : I do n't think you should . I ca n't recall ever seeing test scores listed on a CV . Nobody really cares about GRE scores except graduate admissions committees , and they get the scores straight from ETS anyway .
In academia , one lists things related to accomplishments and dissemination of research in the CV . This typically includes things like papers or preprints , software , as well as presentations one gives . In particular , your list of presentations gives one piece of information into how active you are in your research community . So yes , assuming your poster presentations are academic/research related , it 's appropriate to put them in your CV , though in-class presentations are typically not included . General comments : a CV is different than a resume so there 's a lot of flexibility in what you include and how you format it . Still , there are some dos and do n'ts . You can find loads of example CVs online , but it might be most helpful for you to look at sample CVs of young researchers ( students , postdocs ) in your field for some models . Specific comments : there are different ways you can organize your presentations , but my suggestion is make a section titled presentations , and within that two subsections , one for oral presentations or " talks " and one for poster presentations . Then for each presentation , list the title , venue including conference name and date . E.g. From Cervantes to Swift , 33rd AEIOU Conference , University of Lillipilut , Mildendo , Lilliput , April 1 , 1726 .
I have to disagree slightly with the stark " No " answers . Only when those details provide evidence of your potential for research . Some information about your high-school experience may shed light on your research potential . Certainly you would want to mention winning the <URL> or the <URL> , or describe the peer-reviewed research papers you published as a high school student . But your high school grades ? No , leave them off .
If the goal of your paper is to show that your code solves a particular problem or performs a specific task , then it is your responsibility to prove to the reviewers that your code does what it claims to do . The easiest way to do this is to include the code as part of the supporting information for your paper . However , reproducibility -- which is what you 're asking about , to a certain extent -- is a not-so-simple question when it comes to showing codes do what they 're supposed to . For instance , a code that runs one way under one configuration may return a slightly ( or perhaps _ very ) different result when run under another configuration . This does n't mean that one result or the other is wrong -- it just means that this behavior needs to be taken into account when evaluating the correctness of software . One way to help this is to provide as much information as possible on your testing environment , so that any differences between the system on wich you were working and the conditions the reviewers and future potential users of your code will have can quickly be identified . This would be included , perhaps , as a text file that accompanies the code in the supporting information .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
Assuming that you submitted your application to the human resources office of the university , then it would be appropriate to check with them to make sure that the application was received and was considered to be complete . I would not send a query to faculty members of the search committee ( if you could even figure out which faculty were on the search committee . )
In general , tables of content should n't span more than two pages , otherwise they lose their utility of being a quick guide to the structure of the content . A good keyword index at the rear of the document can handle many of the issues in their stead . That is , if you want people to be able to quickly see where you described the laser engraving process , then " laser engraving " can have a keyword in the index . Or if you make an argument against Talcott Parson 's sick role , similarly you can note both " Talcott Parsons " and " sick role " at the back . ( note : I do encourage my grad students to CREATE extremely detailed tables of contents that lay out their entire argument . This helps them write their dissertations as it gives a roadmap and structure . But when it comes time to submit their thesis to the university , or revise for publication , they should strip their table of contents back down to a minimum of one or two levels ) .
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
A reference list is the list of things that are referenced . A list containing other items that were used is called a bibliography .
Writing " good " papers is an integral part of being a good academic , and therefore it is , in my opinion , something that supervisors should teach their students . This means you should be active in teaching them how to write , and less active in the actual writing itself . Struggling is part of any learning process , provided they are struggling with writing , and not with your reviews . The best you can do is to provide the student with clear goals of how the paper should look , how it should be structured and what it should contain . Looking back at my own first papers , I usually started writing before knowing exactly what the bottom line , e.g. the take-home message , should be . Discussing a plan of the paper , both with regards to content and the writing process , with the student before letting him/her write it is probably a good idea . When reviewing the manuscript , I think it 's important to provide clear , consistent and constructive criticism . Specifically : Clear : If you do n't like a sentence , paragraph , figure or table ( do n't forget these latter two ! ) , make sure you tell the student exactly what you do n't like about it . This may require putting intuition aside and thinking through why you 're not happy with it . Consistent : Avoid editing ping-pong that lead to the same paragraph being re-written 20 times back and forth . It 's probably a good idea to keep copies of previous iterations with your own comments . This also helps the students if you can tell them they 've done a good job fixing things from the previous iteration . Constructive : This is kind of obvious , but I ca n't be reminded of it often enough . Deadlines are a bummer , but they 're as much part of the academic process as the writing itself , so the best you can do is to teach your students to prepare for them adequately , i.e. plan ahead . Addendum As for authorship , in my opinion , teaching a student to write a paper in no way qualifies as co-authorship . It 's part of your job as an academic . Co-authorship is something that arises out of having contributed significantly to the contents of the paper .
If you have published a paper , you should include it in your CV . It does not matter what language the paper is in . For the aid of people who do not speak the language , however , you may wish to include a translation of the paper title as a note , e.g. , : J. Caesar , Commentarii de Bello Gallico [ Commentaries on the Gallic war ] , Caesar House Press , 49 BC , ( in Latin )
end question
start question
Is it possible to get application fee refunded from PhD programs that miss admission decision deadlines ?
You do not a have a leg to stand on , legally , morally or otherwise . The thing you should actually indict them for is not responding to your emails . That is rude ; I think you should probably accept that as an implicit rejection . If they were still thinking of admitting you they would have checked on your status by this point . The issue with your argument is that it does n't actually follow the text of the resolution . The binding part of resolution you cited says " Students are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15 . " So , schools have agreed not to withdraw an offer because you have n't accepted it before April 15th , and not to try to hold you to an offer you 've accepted if you change your mind before April 15th . The school in question has held to their end of the bargain perfectly , since they never made you an offer . The resolution says nothing about the school having to make a decision before April 15th . Of course , schools are well aware that it will be much harder to get people after April 15th , so they make an effort to make offers earlier . However , this is not a deal , this is the department acting in their own self-interest . Unfortunately , there 's too much uncertainty in the process to guarantee you 'll make all offers before April 15th . After all , you have some plan for what your incoming class will be , you make offers to many more people than that , and you hope that you guessed the yield correctly . If the people who 've already been offered admission are waiting until April 15th to make up their minds , you 're then left with a great deal of uncertainty as the deadline approaches , since it will be a big problem if your incoming class is such bigger or much smaller than you planned . Thus , there often are people who you are not sure you want to reject , but not sure you have the money to fund . In my department , we still have a number of people waitlisted , since we have n't filled our class yet . Usually , such people will be formally notified they are on a waitlist ; I think again , that 's in the department 's self-interest and helps clarify things for the student . So , again , it 's likely this is an implicit rejection , which for whatever reason they have n't bothered to formalize .
Higgs 's 1964 paper on the Higgs mechanism was rejected by Physics Letters ( where his preliminary paper on the subject was published ) . He was told that it was not suitable for rapid publication and that he should send it to another journal . However , he <URL> heard that the paper had been rejected because the editors felt that " it was of no obvious relevance to physics . " Apparently , Higgs acknowledged that the paper " had been short on sales talk , " and after adding a couple of paragraphs it was accepted by Physical Review Letters . Here is an <URL> of manuscript rejection , from 1842 : Mayer came up with the theory of conservation of energy , and wrote an article explaining his idea that " energy is neither created nor destroyed . " It was rejected by the leading physics journal of the time , ended up in an obscure chemistry journal , and was mostly ignored by physicists . When the physicists of the time rallied around Joule , who described conservation of energy later in the 1840s , Mayer suffered a mental breakdown . Towards the end of his life , he was finally given credit as a father of thermodynamics . Nature declined to accept Krebs 's paper on the " Krebs cycle " in 1937 . The work later won a Nobel Prize . The <URL> regretfully informs Mr. Krebs that the editor already has " sufficient letters " for the next 7-8 weeks . The seminal paper on quantum cryptography , Wiesner 's " Conjugate Coding , " was <URL> by the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory . ( A surviving copy of the original typewritten manuscript says " Submitted to IEEE , Information Theory " on it . ) It was published about a decade later . In the same subfield , the original manuscript by Bennet , Brassard and Breidbart that introduced quantum key-recycle scheme ( QKRS ) was <URL> several times by major CS conferences including STOC , and was never successfully published . Ernst 's work on nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy , which won the 1991 Nobel Prize in Chemistry , was <URL> not once , but twice , by the Journal of Chemical Physics . Binning and Rohrer 's report on their first experiments in scanning tunneling microscopy , which earned them a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1986 , was initially <URL> on the grounds that it was " not interesting enough . " These are just a few examples . Many more have been compiled in various publications : Here are some more <URL> papers that were rejected at first . Here is a <URL> rejected the first time around . And here are some <URL> that were rejected the first time around . <URL> , of which several earned their authors Nobel prizes and several became the most cited papers in their respective journals . And here are some more <URL> who encountered resistance from reviewers and editors to their award-winning work . And , <URL> .
" Academic misconduct " is not the same as " Lack of academic performance . " " Academic misconduct " is things like claiming undue credit , fabrication of research or sources , outright plagiarism , etc. . Simply not making the grades might reflect on your academic aptitude , but ( unlike academic misconduct ) does not necessarily reflect upon your character .
I do not know about US schools , but for my UK university the IELTS requirements are non-negotiable . Most of the time we see this right away . Sometimes we screw up and read and evaluate the entire application before noticing . In all cases the student is not offered a place . Other UK universities , especially ones that struggle to fill their spots , sometimes will argue with the administration that an exception should be made . From my understanding , they almost always lose .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
Canada is different from the USA , in that direct entry for a PhD after a bachelors degree is rare . The typical path is a bachelors , followed by two year masters , followed by four to five years for a PhD . As far as I know , no typical Canadian PhD program also grants a masters , as in Canada , it 's sort of implied that you already had one going into the PhD . This is of course , based on my understanding of the sciences : Humanities and Engineering may vary . EDIT : One note about courses : Course requirements vary dramatically from program to program , university to university . Some will require relatively few courses , others , many more .
Aeismail 's answer points out that you need to foster contacts with people who can write letters of recommendation testifying to your potential as a researcher . This is a definitely a good answer . However , it is hard to get good credible recommendation letters in China . You need to have not only strong academic performance but also strong social background to get them . The same is true for internship opportunities . When there are more than a hundred applicants competing for 3 internships , the best 3 academic performers with the strongest social background will get them . ( The population in China exceeds 1.3 billion ) . My answer to the question . How can I leave a good impression on the Admissions Committee ? Besides high GPA , GRE and TOEFL scores , ( and possibly winning a competition , publishing papers , abundant internship experiences ) and good credible recommendation letters , the only thing I can think of is an excellent Statement of Purpose . Use that statement to convince the admissions committee why you 'll be an excellent student in their school . Why are you interested in finance or financial engineering ? What have you learned in undergraduate school ? What particular research program in that school you are interested ? What do you hope you can learn from that school after you get the master degree from them ? What do you plan to do after master degree ? Etc.etc . Hopefully , they will be convinced by this statement and then accept you . This is my 5 cents worth . I sincerely hope experts here who are currently in the admission committees can give us more and effective answers .
I can speak for Austria ( place where I did my PhD ) and Switzerland ( current place of employment ) , but my answer should be applicable for Germany as well . I wonder what is the Phd application process for Germany and Switzerland . Are there scholarships offered ? Is there a need for scholarship at all , or do you get paid as an researched directly from the institution where you get the Phd postion ? Both models exist , but the far more common one is that you are just employed as a researcher while doing your PhD . This has advantages and disadvantages . Typically these positions are financially rather attractive ( at least as far as PhD student salaries go ) , currently at about 2400 EUR 14 times a year in Austria for full-time employment , a bit more in Germany , significantly more ( around 5000 CHF 12 times a year ) in Switzerland . All of these salaries allow you to conveniently live ( no need for a diet of <URL> ) in the respective places . On the other hand , as a researcher you are not " just " working on your thesis . In addition , teaching has to be handled , support in administrative matters will be part of your job , and you will need to work on matters of your research project that you find neither interesting nor advance your thesis work in any way . The application process is generally as for any other job - find out what jobs are offered , contact the person per mail , send in CV , ( usually ) do an interview via Skype , wait for an offer . The hardest part is probably finding out what research groups currently have job openings . Positions are generally not announced very widely ( if at all ) . However , just because you can not find an ad for an open position with a specific professor does not necessarily mean that he does not have a position available . Both places that I worked at had open positions almost at all times for a really qualified student . What really helps here are connections - do you know somebody who is already an " insider " in academic circles , maybe a PhD student or postdoc ? If so , ask him to put you in contact with some faculty . If not , look for universities that you might consider joining , find out from their web page what faculty there handles your topic , and send them a short mail . Keep it crisp - both of my professors so far have been insanely busy , and any mail from an unknown person with more than one short paragraph will never be read carefully . Just tell who you are , what your current university is , and that you would like to talk about the possibility of doing a PhD . Give them a week to answer and then send a quick and friendly reminder ( my current prof is the dean of the faculty , and given the size of his inbox mails sometimes do get lost - that does not mean that he is necessarily not interested ) . Maybe , the professor will put you in contact with one of this postdocs or PhD students to " chat " via Skype or in person ( if possible ) - consider this the technical interview , because afterwards the prof will ask the person that you talked to whether they think that you have the technical skills that are required for the selected field . What you should not do is send an overly long formal application - most professors get many of those from rather dubios applicants from the far east , hence formal blind applications are generally discarded unread . Do n't be one of those . is there a need to search and find for a supervisor ( or professor ) , and explain him the idea for the research that you are planning to work on ... or do you get the position and work on the topics which are treated in that research group . my question is both for Swiss and DE ? You are generally not expected to " come " with your own topic . Your broad overall theme will be defined by whatever project / position pays your salary , and on top of that you are expected to define your concrete research project together with a postdoc and/or the professor some time into your PhD ( say , about a year after starting ) . What you should know is roughly what interests you research-wise and contact only professors that really do this research . This sounds like a given , but I work in services and software engineering , and I have lost track of many applicants interested in robotics , AI , formal methods , etc. . I have already discarded . Do n't be one of those , either .
If you are attending universities outside of the US , you normally would n't have much in the way of diversity -- almost all of your courses are directed toward the general area of your major . So it 's not that big a deal not to have too many outside courses . In general , though , I also think that admissions committees do not place as much weight on courses outside the major as courses in the major . If you are a physics major , for instance , a C in a US History course is not going to be as problematic as a C in electricity and magnetism .
Being a mathematician , I must address a logical loophole : I will assume that your field is a STEM field and thus poetry and songs are actually off-topic ( and not just called off-topic ) . How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg ? Four . Calling a tail a leg does n't make it a leg . -- Abraham Lincoln Assuming this : no , I would not submit such creative materials as part of an application to a STEM PhD program . I would n't go so far as to say that submitting such things would be deemed an " affectation " : however , unless you make a clear connection to your chosen field , they are simply not relevant . Including irrelevant things is not a disaster , but it does indicate that you do n't have a clear understanding of what is relevant information in the consideration of your own prospects in that program , which is not great . Most such applications have a personal statement . Mentioning somewhere in the personal statement that you write poetry and songs sounds about right to me : from one human being to another , that is interesting , and personal statements are often not so interesting . But be careful here : a " personal statement " is not a statement about you as a person ! It is really an essay explaining why you would be a strong candidate for the program , so things which are not relevant to that should not be dwelled upon . Many programs do look at the personal statement as a writing sample -- and good writing skills are very relevant in any PhD program , probably more so than any other single quality -- so if you are an unusually good writer the personal statement would be a good opportunity to show your superior skills . However , trying to do that in the genre of either poetry or song would be so risky and open to negative reactions based on personal taste that I would n't recommend it : after all , in most STEM programs you need to be able to write prose , not poetry , and you are not really permitted to burst into song . This is probably a " color between the lines " situation . Added : I spent four ( recent ) years on the committee in charge of graduate admissions in the UGA mathematics department , and I still read some PhD applications every year .
If your question is whether you can cite the patent in a research paper , then yes , absolutely : patents are fully citable sources , and patents do n't protect publication of related ideas . If , on the other hand , you want to use your related algorithm commercially , you 'd better get legal advice on that ...
You can certainly try asking , but I expect you wo n't get a useful answer . In the cases I 'm familiar with ( mathematics departments in the U.S. ) , you are n't likely to get any official answer beyond " no comment " . This is n't because the department is being unhelpful or deliberately withholding information they could reasonably share . Instead , it 's because offering useful feedback is really hard . Rejected applicants sometimes imagine that the rejection may have been due to some identifiable flaw they could fix , but in my experience this is rarely the case . Most rejections are based on an overall evaluation , rather than isolated flaws . Even if a single problem derailed the application , there might have been other issues that were never identified because discussion stopped when the application died . Nobody wastes times on hypotheticals like " Would the candidate have been admitted if it were n't for this problem ? " , since the committee is eager to move on to the more contentious cases . So even if the committee can point to a specific problem , they generally ca n't predict that fixing it would lead to admission . It 's not particularly useful or encouraging to be told " Here 's a serious problem with your application , but do n't assume you 'll get in if you fix it . We have n't even considered that question , so who knows ? " ( Plus there are legal issues : you do n't want to be sued by someone who is told their application was rejected for a specific reason and then discovers that you admitted another applicant with the same issue . You might have had an excellent reason - perhaps the rest of the other application was magnificent - but it could still look like a pretext for discrimination . It 's safest not to offer any explanation that oversimplifies the full decision making process . ) These cases with isolated flaws are really not typical . Instead , most feedback would fall into two categories : " Your application just was n't good enough overall for us to even consider you " or " Your application was good and you made the short list , but you were outcompeted by people with even stronger applications " . The first sort of feedback adds insult to injury , and it 's wise to avoid making enemies among the applicants you reject . The second sort of feedback is also not constructive , since there 's usually no good way to convey to the applicant how the final comparison was made . The evaluation process consisted of multiple readers , perhaps with differing opinions , followed by a committee discussion that compared the application with the competition . Confidential letters of recommendation played a major role , and in any case the process was lengthy and involved enough that it 's difficult to summarize it usefully . For comparison , U.S. National Science Foundation review panels provide applicants with copies of the written reviews and ratings of their proposals , together with a brief summary of the panel discussion . This is about as much transparency as one could reasonably hope for , but it rarely leaves rejected applicants with a clear idea of how to improve their future proposals . In many cases they do n't even have a good understanding of why they did n't make it ( beyond " some other proposals were even more compelling " ) .
At my institution , most researchers have more than one grant . It is extremely common over a wide range of disciplines , at least in the USA . Often , one is required to include the " level of effort " in each grant proposal ; i.e. , the percentage of one 's time that will be spent on that project . That number is never 100 % ; more often , it may be 10-50 % . In many fields , the " principal investigator " on the grant may do only a small part of the actual research , with the bulk being done by students and post-docs . This part is very field-dependent . In some fields , full professors at top universities are expected to have very many grants simultaneously , or at least some very large grants that involve a lot more than the full time of a single person .
There is wrong on every side of this situation . First , a journal demanding money for withdrawing a paper is suspicious in the extreme . I have never in my life heard of such a practice from a legitimate journal , which means that you were probably duped into submitting to a predatory ( junk ) publisher . If this is the case , you should definitely withdraw the paper and refuse to pay the money , but they may not let you : a dishonest publisher may simply publish your paper without your consent and send you a bill . If this happens , you can try to fight it , but you may end up needing to withdraw from the other journal instead and simply write off the paper and/or the $ 500 as a learning experience . And what will you have learned ? Never dual submit a paper : it is scientifically dishonest , wastes everybody 's time , and seriously annoys any legitimate journal . Never submit a paper to a journal that you have n't thoroughly investigated to determine that it is not a shady fly-by-night predatory publisher .
It depends . What does your acknowledgement say when you had submitted your application ? If you were told something like " you will be informed your result by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that regard by that period , then you can write an e-mail to inquire the status of your application . If you were told something like " only successful candidates will be informed by XX month/year " and you have not received anything in that matter , then you can write an e-mail to your contact person to know the status . In any case , you can write email politely to know about your application status if you think it is already too late . There is no harm to inquiring application status .
<URL> may be an option . Its openings are quite heterogeneous ( sciences and humanities ) . Despite the name , it is not restricted to European countries . There are other free scholarship aggregators like <URL> . If you search academia.stackexchange you may be able to find <URL> . Also , you may be able to find <URL> channels associated to your area . At least in computer science it is not uncommon to see such openings posted there . Another option is trying to locate a <URL> where other labs in your field post their openings .
Some universities and faculty are more interested in getting undergraduates involved in research than others . I 've had quite a few undergraduate students do research with me with great success ( publications even ) . I 've never taught at a university with a PhD in CS though - my institutions encouraged undergraduate research and often even provided funding for it . I would recommend against approaching PhD students to work on their research unless directed to do so by their advisor - they are focusing their time and energy on finishing their degrees as well as any research/teaching duties assigned by the university . You can ask graduate students for advice on which professors are interested in working with undergraduates - they usually know the faculty pretty well . As far as professors , there are a few different approaches . Your department should have research seminars - probably more than one - have you been attending ? They are usually open to anyone who is interested and it 's a good way to hear about interesting research . If the faculty member you are interested in working with has a research group with a seminar series then sitting in on that is also a good way to show that you 're serious about doing research with them ( but ask if that 's ok ! ) . Figure out a specific faculty member or research group you 're interested in - you 're more likely to get a positive response if you can demonstrate knowledge of what they are doing and genuine interest ( in the research - not just in getting a recommendation letter ! ) . Does your department have programs for undergraduate research ? Many have summer scholar programs that partner students with faculty or with research labs . Faculty who have grant money can often get extra funding to pay an undergraduate to work with them . The other thing you can do is to look into Research Experience for Undergraduate programs - summer programs where you 'd go to another university to do research . They are competitive to get into though so it 's another situation where you 'll need a letter of reference . This can be from someone whose class you 've taken ( I 've written them for my students ) .
I started with my PhD two years ago , and I understand what you 're asking . There is large number of things you want to consider before enrolling in PhD , I 'll try to summarize my experience and some advises . Bottom line , when applying to PhD you want to make sure that you have these things covered : Clear understanding of what your future research will be . When you start working on your studies , passing exams ( in case you have formal exams as I do ) you 'll want to link these subjects to your main research as much as possible . Make sure you found mentor . I guess this will be professor who offer you PhD , but it can vary depending on field of studies . Check options of scholarship , since PhD studies and research can be quite expensive , depending on your area . Interesting resources and links related to this subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> < -- check this one <URL> < -- Nice checklist Related to funding/scholarships , inside a site findaphd there are 2 sections to be considered : <URL> <URL> Now , about more important matter - choosing good PhD subject , mentor and defining a hypothesis . My biggest challenge was finding out what my specific subject will be ( and what domain will it be applied to ) , cause every mentor expect you to have idea what you want to do . If you try to simply " Google it " it wo n't be of much use . Few approaches helped me here : Open account on <URL> , publish some of your earlier papers and works . After that connect to a people with a same research interests as yours and read their papers and current issues . You 'll be surprised what you 'll find after just couple of days . When you search for books use <URL> instead of simple Google , you 'll find lots of interesting papers on your subject probably . Try to find " problems " , cause your future work MUST provide new benefit , you must solve problem . In order to solve it , you 'll first read about current state of that problem . To summarize it , these are steps you probably want to take : Define your field of research Define domain and mentor Find scholarship module Open account on Academia.edu and upload your papers Research Academia.edu and Google Scholar for issues and opportunities Define hypothesis and general idea for your future PhD Prepare everything in nice documentation and enroll All best ,
From my perspective admitting students to CS PhD programs : TAing for CS classes will be a small positive signal that you did well in those classes and were well thought of by the instructor ( who presumably asked you to be his TA , or at least accepted your application ) . It might also let you get to know the professor teaching the class better , which will be helpful for your application if he/she can write you a letter of recommendation . But beyond that , it wo n't be a huge bonus in and of itself -- its mostly a signal correlated with other good things .
There is nothing wrong with asking , but do n't expect an answer that is particularly helpful ( although you may get very helpful answers ) . You may get a standard response that does n't tell you much , and I would think it pretty rare for someone to take the time to craft a detailed response . If you do ask , make sure you do it in a professional manner , with a couple of key questions about particular issues , like those you mentioned . I would avoid a generic email that simply asks , " Why did n't I get the job/an acceptance ? " or " What did n't you like about my application ? " Obviously , if you do get a response , follow up the response with a brief thank you email ( and definitely do n't get in an argument about the response if you do n't agree with it ! ) .
end question
start question
How to find a list of most influential or cited papers in a given branch of math ?
If you are after highly cited work , <URL> has such a functionality under the tab <URL> : <URL> You can search highly cited work e.g. by subject or by year but note that citations come in slowly into MathSciNet , so data from a year ago may not say too much yet .
Read <URL> and <URL> . My professor put forth 3 simple rules for networking : Talk to the guy beside you Talk to top 3 ( sort by relevance or whatever you prefer ) presenters Mail them 5 days after the conference with some follow up content ( questions/comments/invites for talks etc. ) Just to make this post " dead-link " proof , I present a gist of the content in the above links . Start Early . You should begin preparing before the conference starts . Start reading on who will be there , emailing people you want to meet , and determining which events you will attend . You may want to contact the speakers whose talks you will be attending before the conference ; try to set up a meeting , or if they are too busy , at least meet them and give them your business card . Bring Business Cards . Make sure they 're up-to-date and details your preferred mode of communication . Research people and get involved in their networks . If a certain professor is giving a talk ; read his previous research papers , frame interesting questions and get an excuse to meet him . If you do meet him , exploit the opportunity to interact with his peers and try to enter their network . Sometimes , this is the only way of getting to network with someone . I know of professors who refuse to take students for PhD or internships or Postdocs without a recommendation from someone in his network . A good impression might just get you that recommendation . Note people with similar interests to yours . These people will be attending all the same presentations as you , talking to the same people , discussing similar topics . They are the potential spots for networking . Prepare the elevator speech . A common question will be " So , what is your research about ? " Make sure you have an answer for every audience . For e.g. . If you are in Computational Science , the answer may vary depending on who you are talking with . Plus , make it interesting and digestible . Organize an event of your own . This is especially useful is forming " lower " networks i.e. networks of people who lag in terms of age or experience such as graduate students . If not more , they could notify you of openings or interesting papers or whatever . They could be useful . ( Plus it helps us :P ) Read " <URL> " . Follow Up . Prepare for this even before you leave for the conference . Have different modes of follow up ready . Will you have anything to say that is worth writing an email for ? If not , think of something which will . If nothing works , make sure you click a photo of yourself with him and send it to him a few days after the conference .
Find out what the most current problems in these fields are . This can be done by reading papers in the most recent proceedings of the conferences and journals dedicated to these topics . Regarding these three topics : XML is , as you say , a tool . XML in itself is not particularly novel and a lot of research involving XML is of the form " Something interesting and known in XML . " I find such papers unexciting and reject them if they pass my way . Cloud computing is a hot topic and there will be lots of people working on it . This means that it is easy to find papers and easy to find a venue for publications . On the other hand , there is a lot of competition . Complex data is and will always be interesting . But what do you plan to do with it ? Are you planning to use the cloud to process massive amounts of complex data ? That is certainly a hot topic these days , with things like Google 's Map-Reduce framework and other comparable things ( Hadoop , Cassandra , ... ) . A lot of big companies have interest in such settings , so it might be challenging to find something new to do , but you will likely have people interested in the work you do . In short , I think you only really need to consider the complex data and cloud computing combination . This will make your search a little easier . Then find the top conferences in the area and read the proceedings from the last few years . In addition , it is crucial that you build on top of what other people have done , rather than starting from scratch . Ideally , start with something developed by people in your own lab ( whether it be a system or a theory ) .
I do not believe that the problem is fundamentally about space , but rather is a cultural problem that stems from three things : Reviewers do not demand clarity in their mathematics There is often a perception that " fancy " or " difficult " math means more important science ( related to # 1 ) Really clear presentation of mathematics is difficult and takes a lot of work ( <URL> ) Ultimately , a community tends to get what it rewards . There is no reason that math must be impenetrable . Even if one is faced with a space problem , you can play the same sort of games that you do with figures and data in order to fit . Right now , however , it is typically understood and accepted that you do n't have to do that with your mathematics . In fact , some scientific communities will punish a researcher for presenting mathematics more clearly , because it makes the work look " less significant . " Technology can not help solve this , because ultimately it is a problem of human communication . Anyone who is bothered by mathematical impenetrability can , however , take their own small steps towards changing this culture : In your own work : Include tables and clear explanations in your papers . Use as few symbols as possible , and choose the symbols to improve clarity , e.g. , matching the symbol to the first letter of its description . Buffer your equations with explanatory prose that restates their content in plain English . When considering other people 's work : Call out mathematical impenetrability as a reviewer Ask for tables , clear prose , etc. in the papers that you review View the mathematical impenetrability of a work as a flaw rather than a good thing . This is a very difficult problem , and unlikely to change any time soon , but it can be made better one paper at a time . Moreover , it is my belief ( and experience ) , that clearer mathematics can make for a higher impact and better cited paper , so it will likely be valuable to you in the short term as well , unless you are in a community that has a toxic relationship to mathematical impenetrability .
It really does not matter where you come from . In general , to apply for a PhD program in the U.S. , you need : application letter , resume , reference letters ( usually 3 ) , master 's degree ( mostly required ) , transcripts from bachelor 's and master 's program , and GRE score ( many programs require it ) . In addition , TOEFL score if your native language is not English . Most of the time , if you are admitted to a PhD program in social sciences , you will be granted with assistantship / scholarship at the same time . Mostly , it 's an assistantship , which means you will teach or do something else for the department . The stipend of the assistantship usually is only enough for you to live , not for your research study . If you need funding for your research study , you have to invest your own savings , or get research funding from the department or other grant institutions , which is not easy to get . For the resources , use Google or Google Scholar to look for related publications or scholars . Actually , it is a good strategy to contact professors for the research topic first . If a professor is interested in your research topic or finds you competent during the discussion , it will increase the possibility for the professor to accept you to his/her program . But , be carefully prepared , do n't send email before digging into the literature .
If the work is extending the original , then all of the original authors should be retained . New authors can certainly be added , however , if they have contributed to the extension .
In my experience I have never encountered a situation in which the ordering of reference letters mattered . Usually the only distinction between the different letters is when you are required to have letters from your PhD/postdoc supervisor . These letters may carry more weight because they are from the people which can best assess you . However my experience is from life sciences , not physics .
This is , of course , ultimately up to you , people can only advise you ; I will provide a list of some things to think about ; hopefully this will help :) You say that you want to " do a good research project " . Is n't that what the master 's project is for ? I do n't know anything about unofficial projects but it could work . Yes , taking a break from academia would be a slight disadvantage , but if you 're doing an unofficial project , then this wo n't be a problem at all , will it ? " High impact research " , in my opinion , is a very ambitious/risky thing to set your mind on , in terms of a master 's - level project . Do n't forget that as a master 's student , you are still expected to be learning ; a PhD supervisor is unlikely to expect something like this , although they would like it ! Can you do a project over summer ? In the UK at least , there are loads of paid internships and summer projects available , both with universities and industry .
There 's a certain amount of judgment that needs to be exercised here . One of my more frequently cited publications is an attempt to correct methodological errors in a previous work ( which was also highly cited ) . While it got the point across , it has also led to my work not being cited by the other authors , even though they 've adopted the methodological points laid out in my paper . Now , part of the reason why we discussed the work in detail was because there were major problems that led us to being unable to reproduce their results when we used their techniques with the " advantages " of modern technology . Since it in fact " inspired " our work , we felt the extended discussion was appropriate . However , if the same paper were to present results that were simply wrong , and did n't have the same " primacy " within the research literature , we would have probably ignored it . Literature citations in standard journal papers ( as opposed to review articles ) are not meant to be ecumenical or exhaustive . Your job , as an author , is to exercise judgment as to which articles provide an accurate overview of the state of work in the field , and provide the best support for the arguments you wish to make .
<URL> recently of the most cited papers in Web of Science . At the top , with more than 300k citations , was a methods paper : Protein measurement with the folin phenol reagent . Lowry , O. H. , Rosebrough , N. J. , Farr , A. L. &amp; Randall , R. J. J. Biol . Chem . 193 , 265 -- 275 ( 1951 ) .
My situation is different from yours , but analogous . I have observed a lot of academic discourse on MathOverflow , and even some on Math.stackexchange . I have registered for conferences online and participated , even without a current academic affiliation ( industry affiliation is good but not required : check with conference organizers and your employer ) . The real key is to find a group of people who will either a ) work with you remotely ( say by email ) or locally ( if you are lucky ) , or b ) willing to critique and perhaps mentor you in some arrangement , or c ) willing to spend a few minutes of time giving their opinion of what should happen , or d ) willing to tolerate occasional communication and friendly interaction , on a fairly infrequent basis . MathOverflow is a good way to start at d ) and work your way up the chain . Answer a few questions , post some good ( and I mean GOOD ) questions , and you will more quickly find online presence to develop a relationship which may be useful in real life . You can show your technical chops , sometimes get the fast track on research , and get a lot out of it , even some socializing . However , follow the FAQ : MathOverflow is not for discussion , ill-formed questions , or solving homework , and they are not prone to giving hints to graduate exercises , especially if it smells like asking them to do the work for you . There are also some reasons to prefer math.SE over MathOverflow for submitting questions , but I think doing well at the latter will be more beneficial for you . My impression ( but I could be wrong ) is that your question above would not go over well at MathOverflow , since it deals more with " sociology of math " than with math itself . It might be quicker to reach your goals by hanging out near a large Math department with free food , but I would bet cash money that the above is actually quicker . Good luck at MathOverflow . Once you get to b ) or a ) , you will find out other opportunities outside academia to help you with research .
Try <URL> . I guess the topic you are looking for would fall under <URL> .
Ideally you want to focus on teaching components that you would not ordinarily notice yourself . I do not have previous experience with teaching consultations , but I can suggest some facets of teaching that are difficult to improve without others ' feedback . Especially when you are speaking , there are things you miss because you are focusing on choosing your words . Body language and conveyed impressions Mannerisms , e.g. ' like ... ' , ' um ' , ' ah ' Volume and pace of speaking Eye direction ( are you looking at the students , or do you look upwards when thinking ? ) Students ' facial expressions and body language ( what do they think of this specific class and why ? ) Conversely , there are some facets of your teaching you will notice by yourself in time , and are not particularly benefited by feedback : The clarity of your material ( diagrams , slideshows , images ) . It may be more worthwhile to review this in your own time . Which parts of your content are difficult for students Whether students feel confident to interact What lesson structures work better Students ' overall feelings about the course ( assuming you have course feedback forms ) I hope you make the most out of this opportunity !
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
If you are after highly cited work , <URL> has such a functionality under the tab <URL> : <URL> You can search highly cited work e.g. by subject or by year but note that citations come in slowly into MathSciNet , so data from a year ago may not say too much yet .
In my opinion , the simplest and quickest ( but not necessarily the most optimal ) solution would be to rank those frameworks [ A , B , ... ] by your favorite criteria ( i.e. , importance , fit to my research career goals/interests , fit to my department 's research interests , etc. ) and then perform bibliometric search within the IEEE journals scope , using one or more of your top-ranked frameworks as keywords . The resulting list of journals would be pretty relevant to your paper as well as to your most important criteria .
the h-index is an interesting measure , but it changes all the times microsoft search does it Google author search does it ( see an example <URL> ) the freely available tool <URL> does it you could try and triangulate the numbers that you get and find the average , as a possible solution
Google scholar works pretty well , though with all of these things there are edges cases that cause problems ( non unique names , random poster presentations showing up counting as citations , etc. ) I find that ResearchGate tends to be pretty good . People can comment , annotate , and more generally fix up the metadata issues on this site in a social media style , and so it tends to be pretty accurate . However , since it 's still quite new most papers are missing from its databases ( though it still tends to count citations correctly ? ) .
In the UK I 've always seen it done in reverse chronological order ( most recent first ) . This may vary from country to country . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> to indicate that reverse chronological CVs are the norm . The last link there seems to break it down well , element by element . And for the record , mine is also reverse chronological . Publications : a reverse chronological list is a prerequisite , best presented as an appendix . Include journal articles , books or chapters of books , reports and patents Research experience : in reverse chronological order . Emphasise specialist/technical expertise , IT skills , plus any skills required for the job . including project and people management Education : in reverse chronological order . Focus on higher education onwards . Include awards and scholarships . Include the name of your doctoral supervisor and funding body , if appropriate
Look at all the application rules and guidelines . Unless the registration/application is specifically described as first-come first-served ( which would be unusual ) , the date of submission does n't matter as long as the submission is complete before the deadline .
end question
start question
How to prepare for being a TA ( Teaching Assistant ) ?
Be honest and be yourself . Students will latch on to your discomfort and will use it as an excuse for their performance . I have found that if you are honest with them with a statement along the lines of " I am new to teaching , so please be patient while I work out my teaching style and get more comfortable . If you have any concerns about how class is going , please speak to me as soon as possible . " they are much more forgiving of your mistakes which you are bound to make . There is nothing worse than students who feel they can not pass the class due to your teaching , so allowing them to voice their opinions early can both help in your teaching ( i.e. , " You stand in front of the board too often . " or " It would be more helpful if you spent a little more time going over X. " ) and in your students attitudes towards you . But be careful on this front , make no instantaneous decisions . I always will say something like " I will think about it and get back to you next class if the policy X needs to change . " Always get back to them about it , even if it is a no . Additionally , talk to other grad students and faculty if you are finding you are having problems with teaching . I would be surprised if your department or university had people did not staffed just for training of instructors for teaching duties . Talk to them and voice your nervousness , they are there to help . Even think about all your classes and what the professor did that you hated or liked and try to emulate the best attributes as best you can . But do n't try to be these people , just be yourself . The key here is talk to everyone , do your best , and be yourself . Since you 're just starting out , I do n't believe that they would throw you in cold into a classroom and say " teach " without any forewarning or even knowledge of which class , but they might depending on where you are ( and talk to other people about what to do quickly if possible ) . You will probably start out grading and/or doing recitations/review sections a few times a week until you are more capable/comfortable with maintain your own class . Good luck in teaching and studies ! I always think being able to explain what you know to other people is a true sign that you know it yourself . Addendum : The books that earthling suggested will always help . If you are in mathematics , I also suggest <URL> by Steven G. Krantz . Even though it is written for those teaching math , it is also a good read for almost any new instructor , particularly in the sciences .
I would n't worry about this , unless you have some reason to think you are particularly at risk for having an idea stolen . Ideas are generally not the bottleneck in research . Any experienced researcher will have many more ideas than there is time to investigate , and the hard part is actually carrying out the research well . This means there is little or no incentive to steal untested ideas , especially in comparison with the risk of professional embarrassment from an accusation of theft . When I 've seen impressive ideas in graduate school or job applications , I 've admired the applicant more than the idea . Sometimes there have been cases where it would be exciting to work on this topic with the applicant , but I 've never seen a case where an initial idea was so obviously great in isolation that I wish I could take it up myself without involving the applicant . That 's not to say theft ca n't happen , but I do n't think it 's a likely or worrisome threat . There 's also not much you can do to prevent it in this scenario . You can create enough documentation to prove that you had the idea yourself , but it 's much harder to prove that the other person had n't already had the same idea independently ( which does happen on occasion ) . You might be able to prove that someone behaved like a jerk by not telling you that they were competing with you , but you probably ca n't prove that they stole your idea . Given that it 's not a big risk and is n't easy to address , I 'd recommend not worrying about it .
The decision of whether someone should be a coauthor is completely independent of monetary compensation : authorship depends on what sort of intellectual contribution each person has made , and it would be unethical to treat them differently based on their job ( paid assistant , student , colleague , amateur , etc. ) . People in different roles may be treated differently based on their contributions . For example , an assistant who does no creative or insightful work , but instead just carries out explicit instructions in a straightforward way , should generally not be a coauthor . ( Still , the assistant should be thanked by name in the acknowledgments . ) When the assistant 's work starts to involve exercising nontrivial skill and judgment , coauthorship may be appropriate . If the assistant is doing a serious part of the creative intellectual work , then coauthorship is mandatory , even if the supervisor 's role is deeper .
It is what it is . Some schools give you less opportunity for teaching than others ( e.g. , schools in the UK ) . If you are looking for a research postdoc , then having a lot of teaching experience is not too important . For instance , at my institution , we want to make sure you 're competent and not going to cause problems , but you do n't need to have won five teaching awards . This is evidenced primarily by your teaching letter . If you think you can get a decent teaching letter now , then I would n't worry about it . ( Note : if you 're TAing now and probably wo n't be again before you apply , consider having someone who will write you a letter observe your class . ) If you 're looking for a " teaching postdoc , " e.g. a temporary position at a liberal arts school , they typically want more evidence that you 're a good teacher , so you might try to actively look for more teaching opportunities . Note : presumably many other students at your institution have the same issue . Try finding out how much TAing recent graduates did and what kind of jobs they got after graduating .
First to answer your titular question : What is a TA called when he/she is in charge of organization ? Such a position does ( in theory ) not exist , as a TA as by definition supposed to " assist " somebody else and not run the show on her/his own ( I am aware that this is not how it sometimes works in practice ) . Generally , you need to keep in mind that title and scope of academic positions , especially regarding teaching , are quite different between US and Germany , so you will likely not be able to do an accurate 1-to-1 mapping . I would write " Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter " in the CV and explain what you actually did . Translating it to english is prone to confusion . If you write TA , people will underestimate your responsibility in the course , if you write something like lecturer , people may infer that you already had a faculty position and will be confused by the perceived mismatch with the rest of your CV .
The phenomenon you describe is known as compression and , in the case where salaries are actually reversed , inversion . Unfortunately these are very common especially at state universities . The principal cause is that faculty get hired as assistant professors at market rates , but the university salary structure fails to keep up with inflation and any other sources of increases . Given the severe funding cuts , salary freezes , and so forth that have plagued public higher education over the past few decades , this situation has been almost inevitable . The result is a salary structure such as you describe . The only ways to fix this are either explicit allocation of funds to correct compression , or for individual faculty to obtain raises via retention packages to fight off outside offers . In general , salaries are basically set by market rate at hiring ( which for assistant professors is largely independent of citations and papers , conditional on getting the job in the first place ) and by outside offers received later during the career . Both the availability of outside offers and their magnitude will depend on stature in the field . Even if one does not actually take an outside offer , receiving one or more such offers can prompt the home institution to put together a retention package . The willingness of the home institution to put together a top package will also depend on stature , and similarly the magnitude of the retention package depends on the outside offer and is thus also based on stature . In principle , regular merit raises could also reward faculty in accordance with their productivity and impact . But for whatever reason ( I blame self-governance , but that 's another discussion ) , merit raises and such tend to be allocated in relatively egalitarian form , rather than proportional to differential merit and productivity . Other answers provide additional important information . Some salaries are 9 month , some 12 month . Some faculty on 9 month appointments can cover summer salary off of grants ; others spread 9 months salary across 12 months . Public databases often list total salary received rather than 9 month salary ; this considerably increases the variation among faculty .
Ideally you want to focus on teaching components that you would not ordinarily notice yourself . I do not have previous experience with teaching consultations , but I can suggest some facets of teaching that are difficult to improve without others ' feedback . Especially when you are speaking , there are things you miss because you are focusing on choosing your words . Body language and conveyed impressions Mannerisms , e.g. ' like ... ' , ' um ' , ' ah ' Volume and pace of speaking Eye direction ( are you looking at the students , or do you look upwards when thinking ? ) Students ' facial expressions and body language ( what do they think of this specific class and why ? ) Conversely , there are some facets of your teaching you will notice by yourself in time , and are not particularly benefited by feedback : The clarity of your material ( diagrams , slideshows , images ) . It may be more worthwhile to review this in your own time . Which parts of your content are difficult for students Whether students feel confident to interact What lesson structures work better Students ' overall feelings about the course ( assuming you have course feedback forms ) I hope you make the most out of this opportunity !
Be honest and be yourself . Students will latch on to your discomfort and will use it as an excuse for their performance . I have found that if you are honest with them with a statement along the lines of " I am new to teaching , so please be patient while I work out my teaching style and get more comfortable . If you have any concerns about how class is going , please speak to me as soon as possible . " they are much more forgiving of your mistakes which you are bound to make . There is nothing worse than students who feel they can not pass the class due to your teaching , so allowing them to voice their opinions early can both help in your teaching ( i.e. , " You stand in front of the board too often . " or " It would be more helpful if you spent a little more time going over X. " ) and in your students attitudes towards you . But be careful on this front , make no instantaneous decisions . I always will say something like " I will think about it and get back to you next class if the policy X needs to change . " Always get back to them about it , even if it is a no . Additionally , talk to other grad students and faculty if you are finding you are having problems with teaching . I would be surprised if your department or university had people did not staffed just for training of instructors for teaching duties . Talk to them and voice your nervousness , they are there to help . Even think about all your classes and what the professor did that you hated or liked and try to emulate the best attributes as best you can . But do n't try to be these people , just be yourself . The key here is talk to everyone , do your best , and be yourself . Since you 're just starting out , I do n't believe that they would throw you in cold into a classroom and say " teach " without any forewarning or even knowledge of which class , but they might depending on where you are ( and talk to other people about what to do quickly if possible ) . You will probably start out grading and/or doing recitations/review sections a few times a week until you are more capable/comfortable with maintain your own class . Good luck in teaching and studies ! I always think being able to explain what you know to other people is a true sign that you know it yourself . Addendum : The books that earthling suggested will always help . If you are in mathematics , I also suggest <URL> by Steven G. Krantz . Even though it is written for those teaching math , it is also a good read for almost any new instructor , particularly in the sciences .
Over the course of a long career in teaching , the nature of your instruction will necessarily need to change as both our scientific understanding of the world and our society change . This is especially true for undergraduate and graduate instruction , where the knowledge is more specialized and changes more quickly , but I would argue it is also true for much of one 's earlier schooling as well . To be a good instructor , then , I think that one absolutely must keep up with the evolving nature of one 's field . But does that require doing research ? I do n't think so ( except , of course , for advising graduate students who are required to do research ) . Remaining involved in research is definitely one of the easiest ways to keep up with a field , but it 's not a panacea either : research is typically extremely focused and narrow , and being up to date in one 's particular research sub-field does not necessarily mean you will learn about everything relevant to instructing your students in a course that is only related in the more general sense ( e.g. , a platinum electrocatalyst researcher teaching introductory organic chemistry ) . One can consume information about research without producing it oneself , however , and many other forms of professional education are also available . Bottom line : doing research is a great way of keeping up with your field , but not necessarily sufficient and not necessarily the only way .
From my perspective admitting students to CS PhD programs : TAing for CS classes will be a small positive signal that you did well in those classes and were well thought of by the instructor ( who presumably asked you to be his TA , or at least accepted your application ) . It might also let you get to know the professor teaching the class better , which will be helpful for your application if he/she can write you a letter of recommendation . But beyond that , it wo n't be a huge bonus in and of itself -- its mostly a signal correlated with other good things .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
Where do you want to work ? Research universities want people who do research , publish , go to conferences , and can tolerably teach , in that order . Small liberal arts colleges want people who can teach and who do enough research to keep up with the field . These are rough generalizations . There 's no right answer here .
Yes , it is perfectly appropriate to refer to students in a class you are TAing as " my students . " You are teaching them ; hence , they are your students . It does n't really matter whether or not you are the primary instructor .
I have seen both used in recommendation letters , regardless of the strength of the recommendation letter itself . I would , myself , recommend Dr. John Doe / Dr. Doe for most professional relationships , except when it is clear that you have formed a close professional relationship ( PhD student , or long-term collaborator or post-doc ) . In case you go for the surname , I would still use the full name at the first mention : Dr. John Doe was a student of mine at the University of X , where I teach Y , ... . He later joined my research group as a Masters , then PhD student . John is an extremely bright student , ... ( Of course , that 's merely an example and not a good letter wording , so do not look at the wording itself , only the use of names ... )
In my experience , what comes before professor ( e.g. assistant , associate , full ) is only really used in formal contexts , and in most other cases simply " Professor " / " Prof. " is enough . And , at least in the sciences , " Doctor " / " Dr. " is typically used when that is the highest title . I 've never seen both " Professor " and " Doctor " used together . So , in your case , I suppose " Prof. X " is good enough .
Since you intend to do it on CS I want to point out that the GRE Subject Test on CS ( the one usually asked ) will not be administrated anymore . According to the ETS website : The last administration of the GRE Computer Science Test will be in April 2013 . The test will be discontinued after the April 2013 administration . Scores will continue to be reportable for five years . ( <URL> ) I wanted to say this in a comment ( since it 's not exactly an answer , but I think it 's an important information to you ) , but I ca n't since I do n't have enough reputation on this website to do it :( Therefore , even though I think you wanted more a opinion from people already in academia , I feel obligated to put some more thought on my answer : I 'm a student , currently undergrad ( will graduate at the end of this year ) and I 'm " kinda on the same boat " ( from a third world country , wan na do a Ph.D. on in US in CS and I 've being somewhat lost regarding what to do ) . Here is a compilation about what I have found so far that may be helpful to you : The notions of PhD and MSc in the US may be somewhat different from what you are used to . Quoting from something I 've read in a university website ( ca n't remember which one right now ) " Masters is about breadth , PhD is about depth " . At least in my country ( and I 'm guessing it may be the same for yours ) , both are pretty depth-oriented . - > Keep in mind that , some MSc are breadth oriented , these may not be the droids you are looking for . Also , the programs vary a lot from place to place ... ( And if you are used to the fact that you have to do a MSc prior to the PhD , this is not true for a lot of PhD programs in the US , you can join then directly if you have a bachelor 's degree ) . Example : At CMU , the masters degree is " breadth-oriented " , meaning that you take a lot of advanced courses in various topics , and the PhD is totally research-oriented ( average 6 years , in contrast to the average 2-year MSc + 4-year PhD in my country ) . But in MIT , as far as I 've understood , you apply for grad school , if you are accept and you do n't have a MSc , you are put on a MSc program , if you already do , you are put on the PhD program ( so , seems to be a lot research oriented on both programs ) . - > Make sure you read thoroughly how the programs in the universities you intend to apply are , cause there 's no " standard " . About the " money " part of your question , as far as I 've seen , it goes something like this : MSc : You have to pay for tuition , you may get a paid TA-ship ( Teaching Assitant paid position ) , you may get an RA-ship ( Research Assistant paid position ) , but nothing is guaranteed . PhD : Top universities usually pay you monthly and if the professor that is orientating your research does n't have funding , you need to get an RA or TA job . On other universities , you may need to narrow your options to professors that have funding . - > Keep in mind that , PhD is a better option money-wise , but harder to get in . As pointed on the comments , research capability is a must ( for the " depth " programs at least ) and matters even more than grades . Quoting from a CMU professor on the " Grad School Talk " available at their website : It does not help you , in my opinion , to be closer to 4.0 [ GPA ] as opposed to 3.5 . It 's a much better idea to spend your time on research than on optimizing your GPA . - Keep in mind that proving your research capability matters a lot . But another important quote from this same pdf regarding grades is : Your grades may be somewhat low -- under 3.0 -- because you were having a good time in college and you may therefore be having trouble getting into a Ph.D. program . In this case , you may want to do an MS and use the time to boost your grades and reapply after the MS. Another important thing to note : The things that each program prioritize when looking at your application seem to vary a lot , even among programs at the same university/department . - > Try to figure out what the programs you are aplying prioritize . ( eg : by reading their websites well ) . About TOEFL : It matters a lot , but as far as I understand , it matters in a sense that it prevents you from getting in a program if you do n't have the minimum score needed . * Each university asks for a different TOEFL score . * The top universities ( regarding CS programs ) usually ask for 100 on the IBT ( internet based test , out of 120 ) , an exception being Stanford , that asks for 110 . Regarding IELTS : All universities seem to accept TOEFL , a lot of them seem to accept IELTS , but you need only one of them , so I suggest you go for the TOELF ( for US universities ) . As a plan of action , I suggest this one ( which is kinda what I 'm doing myself ) . Boost your ability to prove " research capability " : It 's VERY important that you have some prior research experience . Have you ever done research as an undergrad ? Do you have professors that can write a recommendation letter for you ? If you do n't , you are ( probably ) gon na need to pursuit this
You can certainly try to politely negotiate salary , but I would n't count on getting much if anything at all . At my institution , my experience has been that the administration simply wo n't negotiate on salary . For a VAP , the department is simply looking for someone who can handle teaching load for a year or two . There are typically many qualified applicants with enough teaching experience , and because the position is temporary there just is n't any point in paying more than necessary .
In mathematics departments at U.S. research universities , typical teaching loads are 1 +2 or 2 +2 , with 1 +2 being common at fancier or better funded schools . See <URL> for some data ; I do n't know how accurate it is , but it looks approximately right to me . 1 +1 is not absolutely unheard of , but it is very rare . Of course what counts as a " research university " is unclear , and some places that consider themselves research universities may have 2 +3 loads , but I do n't think any of the more prestigious research universities have 2 +3 . Of course there are a lot of other factors that come into teaching load . How much flexibility is there in the course assignments ? How does the teaching credit differ between huge lecture courses and small graduate seminars ? How many people ( if any ) get a reduced teaching load ? Does the department allow faculty to buy out of teaching using grant funds ? Without answers to questions like these , a numerical comparison of teaching loads only tells you so much . What I 'd recommend is that you apply for every job you might plausibly want , and then once you start to get interviews or offers you can look into the teaching conditions at these schools in detail .
A " prep " is an individual different course you are teaching . If you are teaching 2 different sections of the same course the same semester , that counts as only 1 " prep " but counts twice towards your " teaching load " . Given not-too-large class sizes , teaching 4 courses with only 2 preps might be less work than teaching 3 courses with 3 preps , since presumably you do n't have to prepare twice to teach the same class twice .
As per the comments on your question , I think this is really context specific and the role of an author can vary quite subtly from area to area . I 'll try give a general answer to the general question first , and then look at the specfics of your case afterwards . How to handle not being credited for research software development in papers ? The first question is whether or not you should be credited for the software you developed in the paper . The answer is predicated on what precisely the contribution of the paper is and what the contribution of the software is . If , for example , ( part of ) the core contribution of the paper is describing optimisations and techniques that you invented and applied in the software , then I think it is more than fair that you should be credited as a co-author . If , for example , the core contribution relates to a methodology for doing X where your software was specifically designed for that methodology , then you should probably be credited as a co-author or , at the very least , mentioned in the acknowledgements . If the core contribution of the paper is not directly related to the software itself but the software is used to some ends , then you should probably not be credited on the paper ( otherwise Linus Torvalds would have millions of publications ) . But if the software system was described in another paper and played a significant/specialised role in the current paper , you could expect a citation . Since the publications would n't be possible without the systems I developed would I have any remit to ask for credit and/or authorship ? I think your reasoning is a little flawed here . Making a research paper possible does not entitle you to co-authorship ( as a simple counter-example , if paper A builds upon the results of paper B such that paper A would not be possible without paper B , the authors of paper B should not expect co-authorship on paper A ) . Providing part of the core contribution of the paper -- the reason why it was accepted in the first place -- entitles you to co-authorship . I noticed something crucial in your comments that you did n't clarify in your question : " Since xxxx our system has collated data on x cases and found that . . " The authors should absolutely not be claiming credit for a system they did not design or build . This is clearly wrong . ( And it also indirectly suggests that part of the contribution is indeed the system and the authors are trying to claim credit for it . ) Since you know the authors , you should talk with them , show them the relevant quotes in the papers and tell them that you are not happy with them claiming the system as their own . Tell them that if they wish to continue claiming the system in future then you should be a co-author on the paper . If you wish to escalate , you can contact the editor ( s ) of the journal ( s ) involved and tell them your story . The editor ( s ) might agree to let you publish a letter referring to the specific paper and outlining your case . This should be considered the " nuclear " option . EDIT : Not in answer to the question , but this quote in the transcript of Hamming 's address " <URL> " ( well worth a read for anyone in research ) reminded me of this question : I also did a second thing . When I loaned what little programming power we had to help in the early days of computing , I said , " We are not getting the recognition for our programmers that they deserve . When you publish a paper you will thank that programmer or you are n't getting any more help from me . That programmer is going to be thanked by name ; she 's worked hard . " I waited a couple of years . I then went through a year of BSTJ articles and counted what fraction thanked some programmer . I took it into the boss and said , " That 's the central role computing is playing in Bell Labs ; if the BSTJ is important , that 's how important computing is . " He had to give in .
end question
start question
Why are some professors critical of even casual use of Wikipedia ?
A small sidenote to start things off : If I tell them " I read from Wikipedia that ... " I get dismissed immediately , yet in online forums we use it like a Bible . Well , one of the reasons for that is that " I read in Wikipedia " is almost synonymous with " I have exactly 5 minutes worth of knowledge on the topic " . The problem here really is n't the fact that you read Wikipedia , but that citing from it implies that you have read nothing else on the topic . If I am an expert in whatever field , I would probably not take a concern from somebody who implies that all his knowledge comes from a few-minute Internet recherché very seriously , either ( no matter what source ( s ) he actually found ) . Also , which online forums " use it like a Bible " ? Most that I hang around at are very critical of Wikipedia quotes , mostly for the reason I stated above - arguing based on a Wikipedia entry does not exactly establish creds as a person knowledgeable about the subject . Now , let 's discuss the real question here : What is the real reason Wikipedia is perceived negatively among many professors , even for informal use ( e.g. as an introduction to a subject ) ? ( note that the question is specifically about using Wikipedia as an introduction to a subject , not as a primary , citable source ) Honestly ? It is probably a combination of feeling threatened , reluctance to embrace change , and lack of knowledge how Wikipedia articles actually evolve over time . " Feeling threatened " in the sense that Wikipedia is kind of decentralising knowledge compilation , which is of course not necessarily something that makes academics ( the people that used to be more or less the definition of " compiled knowledge " in pre-internet times ) very comfortable . " Reluctance to embrace change " in the sense that Wikipedia is ( in comparison to text books or lectures ) a very new ( and radically different ) way to get an introduction to a topic , and most humans tend to be sceptical of this kind of disruptive technology . " Lack of knowledge " in the sense that many critical academics simply have not taken the time to study how ( especially popular ) Wikipedia articles actually evolve over time . I am convinced many would be positively surprised if they knew how well quality control in Wikipedia actually works in practice . I remember that in 2004 , c ' t ( a well-known German magazine widely read by IT professionals ) ran <URL> where they took random articles out of various encyclopaedias , anonymised them so that one could not tell the source anymore , and had domain experts compare them to anonymised Wikipedia articles for quality and technical errors . Wikipedia was consistently rated higher-quality than even well-respected standard encyclopaedias . That being said , I assume that the average quality of Wikipedia articles degrades a lot for entries on more esoteric topics , so I actually agree that for deeply scientific topics , one should be somewhat skeptical of Wikipedia , just as one would be about any other single source . Finally , I have to say that I know many professors that do n't have a problem with using Wikipedia as a starting point for your review of a subject . However , if you write , for instance , an seminar paper , you are expected to read the primary sources ( and I fully agree with this ) .
This kind of questions are often closed due to being a " shopping question . " And yet , I do feel it 's important in faculty 's life . Perhaps you can reword your question so that it 's asking for " What to consider " rather than " Which software to use . " Now onto the question . The answer is " I do n't know . " It 's because the choice of platform can depend on a lot of criteria and not many were presented in the question . What I 'd suggest is to identify the education media person and the instruction designer in your institute and schedule a meeting with him/her . Prior to the meeting , prepare the followings . These are the general information the specialist will need to know : Is it synchronous ( live with real time interaction ) or asynchronous ( not live or only partially live , with more lag time interaction . ) For example , a live lecture that allows people to raise question at the same duration of time is closer to synchronous ; an uploaded video of a past lecture with a discussion board for Q&amp;A is more of an asynchronous design . The more details you can provide to the specialist , the more fitting the solution . Is it closed or open ? Do people need to RSVP and log in with user name or password ? Or is it just a link that anyone can access ? How many participants are you expecting ? Just a ballpark is fine . Do you need onsite AV and technical support ? This has impact on your pricing . But if none of the speakers has experience with technical troubleshooting , I 'd suggest get one at least for the first couple sessions . These are just the works you need to do with the education media person . On your side , there are a lot to think about as well : Online course has very different design concepts . While some of us may think that it 's just an extra camera in the lecture hall but it 's a lot more complicated than that . You 'd have to consider the pacing , consider if micro-lecture is a better alternative , figure out when to let participation or Q&amp;A happen , and design online assessment and evaluation , etc. . Resources are readily available on the Internet and in books . Consult the education media person for details . The management of the class is also different . For synchronous , I 'd suggest have one person do the teaching and one extra person ( could be a TA ) to manage the chat , collect and curate questions for you . It 's often disastrous for the speaker to try jumping between chatting and teaching . Test run , test run , test run , and test run more . If anything , this is the most important key to success . Find some friends and colleagues to join some test sessions . Collect information on their device and make sure there is a good diversity in operation systems , browsers used , microphone and camera models , desktops or tablets , etc. and make sure the system is as versatile and bullet proof as possible . Develop an etiquette/technical support guide and circulate it among the participants or make it available as a download prior to the event . The guide should contain i ) time and date of the event and details on how to log in . Screenshots with captions are great ; ii ) explain how to raise question ( through chat , e-mail , or bulletin board ) ; iii ) explain common etiquette such as mute your microphone when you 're not speaking to avoid audio feedback , etc. .
Say you 're a professor reading the application of a prospective student who wants to work on topic X , which is not your specific interest ( your interest is Y ) . You may be thinking along any of the following lines : " I 'm doing Y , and I have lots of interesting research ideas around Y. I want students to help me explore these ideas in Y , so I wo n't supervise a student in X. " " I 'm doing Y , and I can supervise students in Y reasonably well . But supervising a student in X for the first time would require a substantial extra investment of time and effort on my part , and I 'm not able to offer that right now . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X . But currently I only have funding for Y ( and PhD offers in our field are always funded ) , so I ca n't take on this student unless they are fully funded by an external fellowship . " " X is really interesting . It would be useful to develop expertise in X in this research group . I 'll take on this student even though I have no interest in or expertise in X. " But then this advisor may turn out to be an ineffective advisor for this student . " X is really interesting . I do n't have any expertise in X specifically , but I do know about the closely related field Y , and I think this expertise would enable me to effectively supervise a student in X , so I 'm willing to take on this student . " ( It may or may not turn out to be true that expertise in Y will translate to effective supervision in X. ) " X is a major up-and-coming topic , which is why I just hired that postdoc with expertise in X to start this fall . With her help , we could definitely get a PhD student started in X. " " I would n't take on a student whose main topic is X , because that 's not my primary research interest . But if the student was working on my topic , Y , I would be open to also pursuing X with him as a side project . " Since you do n't know which of these apply , if you contact this professor , it would be a good idea to indicate that you would be very happy working on Y ( if that 's true ) in addition to your interest in X.
As for the question in the title , some common examples would be organising a seminar , helping to organise a conference or workshop , or serving on a committee . I do n't think that the activities you mention are generally considered ' service ' . They are definitely activities worth mentioning in other contexts , though . If you really do n't have any experience in ' service activities ' , then perhaps a good way to respond to questions about service would be to admit that you do n't have such experience so far , but express interest in gaining such experience ( with specific details of the kinds of service you are especially interested in ) . I have no idea whether this is good advice , though , as I 'm only a postdoc myself and have never been on a search committee .
I 'll tackle the easiest side of the question first : bringing nothing should not create trouble . If you are clearly expressing your thanks for the invitation , both in written before you arrive , and in person when you meet the guy , noöne should take offense . On the other hand , bringing a gift is fine too , but : It should be tasteful and suitable for any taste : no sake , no unusual ( by US standards ) food ... unless you know him well enough . It should not be terribly expensive : people like the attention , but they do n't actually care so much about the gift itself . Keep it simple , that way it can not be understood as a bribe . Not academia-related , but still useful to remember : make sure it passes customs ( I had my French gift confiscated from me once ) . I usually bring stuff to colleagues who host me when I travel to other places , if only because it gives a starting topic for smalltalk ( something which I 'm not very good at ) in a future occasion .
Assuming the empirical studies with topic X involves the application of various methods associated with X , aspect of citing the number of available examples depends on your motive . If you are illustrating a method , then citing only a few like two or three would be fine . This can be when you wish to show the applicability ( or inapplicability ) of a method Y for the topic X citing only few of the papers that uses Y on X. On the other hand , if you wish to do a detailed study on different methods applied in different ways on topic X , then you would have to cite all the available empirical studies done on X. Note that you would also have to give an account on each of the material you have cited . This would be the obvious case for a proper survey .
Do n't make anyone do extra work . They may not want to ( or easily be able to ) open a different file to find the reference . Give up part ( 1/4th ? ) of a page for references . Do n't cram text in the main body , but references could be written with a ( slightly ) smaller/tighter font size/spacing if necessary .
Whether the articles were paywalled or not , you should resolve your problem in three steps : Content license : check if you can find a version of the figure with liberal licensing terms . The paywalled version certainly does not fit the bill ... but you may find the same figure ( or a similar one ) in a pre-print version of the paper , under a different license . Obtaining permission for use : even if the content is not available under a free license , the publisher can grant you permission to reproduce the image . Nowadays , many publishers use a nice interface called Rightslink . If you look for example at this <URL> from the American Chemical Society ( which is far from being the most liberal of publishers ) , you can see a " Rights and permissions " link . In that particular example , the publisher will grant you reproducing of up to 4 figures of the paper on the internet , even on a for-profit website . Fair use : the fair use doctrine is a tricky , murky area of US copyright law . It 's not as wide as people generally assume . It has to be judged on a case-by-case basis : see <URL> and <URL> . See <URL> a notorious case from back in 2007 which is very close to your particular case . So , my own conclusion on fair use : it 's nice in principle , but unless you 're ready to hire a lawyer to double-check ( or get formal training on that ) , just play it safe .
I think that this use is fine , and some professors may add their subspecialties to these skill lists ( e.g. Algebraic Geometry ) . I think that being prescriptivist about how a social networking site is used is a bit fallacious in the first place . Professors may use LinkedIn to find connections that lead to work in similar ways to non-academics . There is no " supposed to be " in this context . For example , at most US universities faculty are responsible for finding funding for their summer salary . That might come in the form of teaching summer courses , finding grant funding , or working as a consultant to a business or national lab . Putting oneself out there on LinkedIn might be a great way to find or be found for consulting gigs . Also , not all profs are permanently committed to their current jobs , so being on job-based social networking sites may lead to their next opportunity . I agree that it 's a little silly for senior people to be listing skills like this and farming endorsements , but I think this is more like the future than it is like the past . I would n't be surprised to see LinkedIn add features that make it more attractive to academics to use . The site is already an online resume for non-academics , adding academic-style publication references , grants , courses taught , etc. might allow us to use LinkedIn as an online CV . The site already has publications , but they do n't really support them like ResearchGate , Google Scholar , or other academic publication aggregators ( yet ) .
Is having a specialised PhD topic a pitfall when applying to be a lecturer of STEM education ? [ with teaching and research duties ] I would not call it a " pitfall , " per se , but rather you 'll have to do some convincing that you 're qualified to research in the field of education . I applied for a couple of similar positions ( with somewhat similar experience and education as you , though with about half the number of years teaching high school ) , and the guidance I received was that I needed to demonstrate that I had a " research arc " ( or research strategy ) that was consistent with the research goals of the position . Having a good deal of teaching experience may have given me an edge as far as the teaching duties were concerned , but I only had one publication in the education pedagogy realm , and that ( among other things , presumably ) was not enough to make me competitive for the positions ( i.e. , I did n't get the jobs ) . In fact , it probably was the case that most applicants for such a position spent time teaching at the secondary level , and my experience there was a wash . Bottom line : if you are asked to write a research statement , make sure it is highly targeted towards the position , and try to have a long-term approach to the research question or questions you discuss . Relating it back to your hard-science degree may be difficult , so leverage as much of the teaching experience you can to inform the statement .
The short answer is : yes . Sabbatical is not a vacation but is rather a leave of teaching to focus on research and publication . At many schools it is not automatic but must be applied for and is granted at the provost 's discretion . Some schools will only provide six months of funding , but will release a full year of teaching , making the faculty member responsible for getting grants for the remainder , or effectively working at half salary .
Most professors are required by their departments to do some sort of service to the university and department . It 's a duty of their job , often assigned by their department chair , and may be required as part of their tenure case . Someone who is actually a professor may be able to say more . Paper reviewing , and the peer review system as a whole , is a cooperative system . Profs need peer-reviewed publications to get tenure , so someone has to do the reviewing . Nobody gets explicit points or credit for reviewing , but if everyone tried to free-ride , then no papers would get reviewed , and the system would collapse . As a non-professor , I do n't do as much reviewing ( dozens of papers a year ) as my professorial colleagues ( hundreds per year , often , depending on field ) , but every time I submit an article to a journal , I 'm asked to do a review by the editor , which helps keep me involved in reviewing . I suspect that people also do n't want to develop reputations as free riders , so when asked to review , within reason , they do it . In addition , sitting on a program committee for a conference involves a lot of reviewing , and it can be a great way to meet and network more closely with more senior or more junior researchers depending on your own level , both of which have their advantages . Doing both kinds of reviewing and doing it well can help one build a reputation as someone who supports the system . Besides the general benefits of a good reputation , it may lead to program committee chair positions , other conference organizing positions , and journal editorships . In the end , having a bad reputation for not reviewing and not doing other kinds of service could seriously affect one 's tenure case or future job prospects .
DOI , by itself , certainly does not add " authenticity " . The Digital Object Identifier is , by <URL> , meant to be a method of producing and providing a persistent actionable identifier to entities . To put it in plain English : the DOI is an effort to prevent <URL> , and importantly , does so by not only providing a registry of the numbered items , but also providing a mechanism for accessing/retrieving those items . <URL> also explains pretty well what it is for . Notice that DOIs can be had for many more than just journal articles . In science , a growing practice is to use DOI <URL> . As to why a publisher may decide not to participate in the DOI scheme : for starters , it <URL> . This may have contributed to the correlation that sham publishers typically do not make use of the DOI service .
In general , an editor will choose to issue a retraction when misbehavior or errors undermine the " core " of a paper ( authors may request a retraction , but ultimately it is generally the editor who decides ) . An erratum or correction , on the other hand , is for when there is a problem that does n't change the " core " of the paper . Different editors will draw the boundary differently , and some things are in a grey area . In this case , it looks like reuse of background material ( a grey area on self-plagiarism ) shaded over into plagiarism from another closely related piece . In most cases plagiarism , even of a background section , would be enough for a paper to be retracted due to the issue of dishonesty , which cases doubt on everything else in the paper . In this case , however , it appears that given the close relationships between the authors and the papers , the editor judged it less a matter of theft than of sloppiness , and opted for the lesser correction .
In Germany , professorships and doctorates are considered to be " legal " titles , and have special status not accorded to other degrees and professions . In particular , university professors in Germany are Beamter ( appointed civil servants ) , which places them in a relatively small class of government employees . It is to be noted that a professor in a German university can be called " Herr Professor " or " Frau Professor " only so long as he or she is actively working as a professor ; following retirement or leaving the university profession , it is technically not permitted to use the title . Thus , in this sense , the appellation " Professor " is legally part of someone 's name , and should therefore be used in formal greetings and salutations . ( This can sometimes be annoying -- for example , in a physician 's waiting room , you can hear them call for " Frau Professor Schmidt ! " )
Page length is one of the most basic things you can know about a document , and one of the few useful numerical measurements of a piece of writing . I personally find it helpful as an indicator of how " serious " something is . ( This holds for novels as well as papers . ) If I see one set of notes on a topic that are 8 pages long versus another set that are 56 pages , I have a good sense that the latter set is much more detailed than the former . Similarly , a 6-page paper entitled " Bounded gaps between primes " ( a famously hard problem , very unlikely to be solved in so short a work ) gives a very different impression than <URL> . While page length is not equated with how deep or interesting something is ( and of course depends on format ) , it can be at least suggestive . As a corollary , I also take page lengths into account when evaluating job candidates to get a sense of how productive they are . Regarding the definition , I think it 's safe to interpret page length as the number of pdf pages , as this is what most people will immediately see when they open the pdf . That said , if it 's a book , it 's perfectly fine to put something like 286 + xvii pages , but I doubt people will care much either way . Remember , this is just a preprint server .
It 's always good practice to cite as closely as possible , especially in a book . LaTeX makes it easy to do this with the form . For a paper , it 's often not necessary since one typically cites the main result of a paper . But even with a paper , if what you 're citing is a lemma buried inside ( and that is not obvious from the abstract ) it 's good to say or something like that . As to why people do n't do it , AnonymousMathematician already answered that above .
It is nice to do so ( especially if you mention their support in the acknowledgement - which may even be the only things they 'll read ) , but it is far from required .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
There are some general guidelines for choosing members of a PhD committee : They should have some enthusiasm for the work that you do . If they 're not invested in seeing you succeed , you wo n't get as much utility out of that committee member as someone else who might not be as knowledgeable , but is more committed . They should have the time to be on your committee . If they 're extremely busy , then it does n't help to have them on a committee , because it will be difficult for them to attend the meetings -- or it will make scheduling the meetings a nightmare . They should not have conflicts with either you or your advisor . A thesis committee is already a somewhat political body . There 's no need to add extra politics to the situation by having interpersonal or professional conflicts before the committee even begins to meet ! Collectively , there should not be a power " imbalance . " If your advisor is a new assistant professor , do n't overload the committee with a bunch of full professors holding named chairs , and vice versa . When they will set preliminary exams , there 's the additional qualification of : The committee members should be familiar enough with your area that they know what it might make sense to test you on , but not so familiar with your work that they turn it into a " gotcha " game .
end question
start question
Would it be okay to provide a template when asking reference ?
Personally , I would be somewhat offended if a student gave me a template for a letter , and I would n't use it . ( Unless I had asked for one , which personally I would not . ) However , it is perfectly appropriate to say , " I believe that the committee will probably be interested in my ability to dangle participles and reticulate splines ; it would help if your letter could address this . " It is also fine to include a list or resume of your other activities that he may not be aware of , but leave it up to him how to use this list . It 's quite possible that your professor has written letters for students in this different field before and already knows what is expected . Also , for letters which are submitted online , the writer normally gets a message from the requesting institution explaining what issues should be addressed .
The time frame to a point where a question can or indeed should be sent varies depending on the typical time for that journal , or of similar journals in your field . To me 2.5 months does not sound too long , a decision after one month sounds very quick if I consider a normal set of reviewers also should make their evaluations in that period . If you think sufficient ( relative to what you perceive as " normal " ) time has passed you can certainly send a short e-mail asking for information . If you have an excuse for asking , in addition of just wanting to know , your mail is far less likely to be perceived as " pushy " . But , regardless , editors will get hit by such mails fairly regularly and despite some of them or the bulk of them being a source of irritation at times , the question is not strange by any means . It is all down to the tone of the mail . The fact that the editor is retired should not affect any aspect of the review procedure so I do not see any reason to take that fact into consideration . The journal must appreciate the work the editor is doing , otherwise the editor would likely not be there .
Certainly this is appropriate , especially if you indicate who you are and why you are interested . Researchers are interested in spreading their results far and wide to get citations . The worst that can happen is that the research is not yet quite publication-ready , and the author prefers not to share it yet , to avoid academic claim-jumping . If so , you may get exactly this explanation , or no answer at all . The best , conversely , would be that this could actually lead to a fruitful discussion and/or even collaboration .
If a student needs a reference letter for graduate admissions or that sort of thing , some profs will ask the student to write a reference letter for themself before sending it off to the prof for minor edits and finalization . Some profs lie , cheat and steal as well ... occasionally in their professional life . Just because a practice is common does not make it right . This seems to be a somewhat common practice given that some graduate schools ask for several letters of recommendation even when it is not reasonable for the student to have developed deep connections with that many professors , and that most professors are just too busy to write quality letters for all the students that ask them to . It is certainly " reasonable " to ask for several letters of recommendation for graduate admissions . That many students will not have had substantial personal contact with faculty is something to keep in mind as one progresses through an undergraduate program . Also connections need not be especially deep in order to result in a good letter : if the writer can be confident that the student will succeed in the graduate program she is applying for , that is enough . Often a truly outstanding performance in a single course is sufficient . Is it acceptable to write most of the reference letter and have the prof make minor edits ? No , this is a form of plagiarism and academic fraud . What you pass off as your written word must actually be yours except where you explicitly document to the contrary . Do academic institutions frown upon this practice ? Many of them do , yes . Would it be considered an academic offense if a student wrote a reference letter for themselves and had a prof sign it ? It depends on the institution and probably the nation in question but in the United States : yes , it certainly could be . If I found out that this happened in an application that I read , I would at the very least throw out the entire letter ; I would probably be inclined to dismiss the entire application . I would probably not contact the faculty member because in my view they are equally culpable ( if not more so because they should know better ) , but I would be much more skeptical of letters coming from that person and even that institution in the future . The above takes a hard ethical line , as I am very frustrated with other answers to this and related questions that seem resigned that one must accept unethical behavior in this situation . But here is a different kind of answer : A graduate admissions letter that a student writes for herself is going to be a bad letter compared to a " real " letter written by a qualified faculty member . A graduate admissions letter is a communication between one mature academic and another : how would a 22 year-old young adult know how to write such a letter in a convincing way ? Without having read hundreds or thousands of other similar letters , how would she know what the faculty want to hear ? She would n't . If you write your own letter , you are at best forging an ineffectively written letter . Surely you deserve a better one ? As for faculty being very busy : yes , we are . As for having lots of letters to write : yes , we do . But writing such letters is part of our job , so a faculty member who does not take time out to write a good letter is not a good faculty member , at least not in this aspect . Writing a good recommendation letter usually takes several hours and often more than one sitting . How can you help your professor write a good letter ( on their own ! ) : 1 ) Give them lots of time to write the letter . Academics are busy , and our schedules are uneven . If you give me something to do six weeks in advance , then maybe in week three I 'll find a spare afternoon and be able to do it . Leaving much less than a month for someone to write a letter is getting off on the wrong foot and already implicitly asking for less than the best possible letter . 2 ) Provide information about yourself rather than waiting for the faculty member to ask . You should not write the letter yourself , but you should certainly include all information that you think might be pertinent , and you are well within your rights to highlight certain information that you think might be especially pertinent . Preparing something like a CV but tailored for a good letter rather than a job would be ideal . 3 ) Do everything in your power to minimize the attendant clerical work in submitting the letter . Faculty members are busy and also , honestly , a bit lazy/snooty about routine work . If you tell me to mail a letter to a certain address , then there is going to be a whole day in which I print out the letter and do n't get around to correctly putting it in an envelope . If the letters still need to be mailed ( fewer and fewer do , and most but not all faculty members prefer to do things electronically ) , it would be wise to provide a self-addressed stamped envelope . If the submission is electronic , again try to ensure th
Is there a reason not to show a student their letter of reference ? One important reason is if you make direct comparisons with other students , which is one of the most useful things you can do in a letter . If you say " this student is even more promising than X , and perhaps comparable with Y , but not quite as strong as Z " , then it does n't seem appropriate to tell the student . Even if your letter does n't name anyone specific , but instead says " this student was among the top two in a class of twenty-five " , it still leaks a little information about how other students performed in the class . Even aside from direct comparisons , you 'll be making implicit comparisons if several students compare the letters you wrote for them to see whose is more enthusiastic . That does n't raise the same ethical issues , but it 's still awkward . I have no interest in telling students my private opinion of how they compare with each other . The second question is , is it reasonable to refuse to write a reference for a student when the student does not waive their right to see the reference . Why not ? The fundamental question here is whether you ever have an obligation to write a letter . In general I 'd say no , although there are cases in which it would be offensive to refuse to write for anything less than very serious reasons . ( For example , Ph.D. advisors owe letters to graduating students . ) Under most circumstances , refusing to waive the right to see the letter sounds to me like a fine reason to decline to write one . There are also all sorts of intermediate options you could choose . For example , you could tell the student you would have to write something like " I warned this student that I could not write a compelling letter if he did not waive the right to see it , because I would be unable to compare him with other students . He insisted that he needed a letter from me but was unwilling to waive this right , so I will do the best I can . I can confirm that he received an A in my class and has sufficient preparation for further study in this field . "
I think the method you 've proposed , while cumbersome and intrusive , is also the correct way to do things , as you will be assigning a specific item to a specific source . That is the point of citing original source material in the first place . So while it may be somewhat unsightly ( particularly if using a Harvard-like style in which the authors are listed as part of the reference ) , what you 're doing has the advantage of being unambiguous and completely legitimate .
Assuming that you 're not in a field where it 's " strictly alphabetical order " ( like economics ) , the question of which position is more important depends on what stage of your career you 're in . If you are a beginning academic -- a PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow -- then the first-author publications are most important , as these will show you taking an active and leading role in your research . As you move up the chain , however , and reach more senior positions , having the last-author credit becomes more important , as now you 're showing your leadership role in directing projects . You do n't want to be stuck in the trap of being a " junior " partner in research collaborations , with the senior PI getting all of the credit for the work .
Short answer : okay , and a quite good idea , for the reasons and with few limits , see below . in academia one should never submit the same paper to two journals If only noone had done that ... So I suppose that you have a journal paper under review ( your title ) . And the workshop asks for a contribution . I doubt you will directly send the paper under review to the workshop committee . So you will write something " else " for the workshop , possibly a shortened version . Recently , I read a chronic in IEEE Information Theory Society Newsletter ( see below for the full quote ) . In the 1950s , apparently , you could present a paper to the associated workshop/conference ( only ) when it was accepted or published before in the journal . This has the advantage the audience could read the paper in detail before the talk , and allow nicer discussions . Recently , some IEEE conferences ( ICASSP , ICIP , GlobalSIP ) have begun the accept " submissions " , after the official deadlines , from papers already accepted in <URL> ( which has the same 5-page same format as the conference ) . The paper , once accepted , is presented at the conference , but it is not in the abstract book : of course , it is already " being published " by the journal . These examples show that limiting the clutter of unfinished works , submitted too early and several times at conferences , was and still is possible . Indeed , if one writes a conference paper , after presenting it , it is sometimes difficult to find the energy to write the full paper . So this sounds perfectly fine to me . The main thing to care about is ownership : as the preprint ( submitted ) is still yours , and as long as it does not infringe the workshop rules . I believe though it is honest , and useful , to mention in your workshop absract , that the extended version of the work is " under submission " , " under revision " in a journal ( you can mention the name or not ) , or accepted with the date of acceptance . <URL> ( <URL> ) , in the The Historian 's Column : It is worth noting in Fano 's letter that the number of sessions was six ( 6 ! ) and all of them were in series . Each paper was presented for about 20 minutes with 10 minutes left for discussion which was invariably lively and had to be stopped by the chair person to make sure that the schedule was kept in time . But consider this : The papers were FIRST published in the Transactions and THEN they were presented at the Symposium !! That is a total reversal of what we do today . The distinct advantage of this arrangement was that the audience had the benefit of studying the papers carefully ahead of time , which enabled an in-depth discussion after the presentation . Not a bad idea !
From the survey <URL> by Drew Appleby and Karen Appleby : According to several respondents , spelling and grammatical errors found anywhere in the application are an immediate Kiss of Death . My job should finish here , but I want to summarize the paper after a quick skim . 5 major Kisses of Death are : Damaging personal statements : personal mental health , excessive altruism , excessive self-disclosure , and professional inappropriateness . Harmful letters of recommendation : undesirable applicant characteristics , letters from inappropriate sources Lack of program information : not researching the general focus of the program , not exploring how the applicant 's research interests fit the focus of the program . Poor writing skills : spelling and grammatical errors , poorly written applications Misfired attempts to impress Thanks Roger Fan for linking this survey .
Is it normal to submit an abstract to a conference when the research is NOT completed ? Sure . There are plenty of fields where the purpose of a conference is to discuss research that is " still cooking . " In fact , many journal publications can be viewed as interim reports on larger research programs that are still in progress . You might use this opportunity to set a goal for ( roughly ) the piece of your thesis you want to have done by the date of the conference . It 's ok if that piece is relatively small , and nobody at the conference will hold you strictly to what you say in the abstract . In fact , some people submit abstracts on one thing and then talk about something entirely different ... I wo n't advocate that behavior as an intentional strategy , but I will say that many people ( myself included ) prefer a great talk to exacting consistency with the abstract .
This depends a great deal on the professor and course in question . Better to ask first if you plan to do this . Also , check the syllabus if there is a stated policy regarding help on homework .
Yes , this is a fine question to ask , although I might phrase is slightly differently : " How happy are you with the progress that I am making ? " which makes it a little more open-ended and focuses the question more on process and progress .
Is it a good idea to upload a version of the survey on Arxiv and keep on updating it ? It 's worth doing if you have the time and energy , but it 's unconventional . There are some continuously updated survey papers ( such as the <URL> in the Electronic Journal of Combinatorics ) , but the usual expectation is that a survey represents a snapshot in time . As a career matter , writing a second survey on recent results a few years later may get you more attention and credit than updating your original survey . Continuous updates can be especially useful if they are timely and the field is particularly hot , but they have their own limitations in a rapidly developing field ( the original organization may weigh you down if you stick too closely to it ) . From my perspective , the trickiest aspect is what to tell people . If you silently update the paper , it wo n't attract as many readers as announcing that everyone should check back for periodic updates . ( And the whole purpose is to inform the community , so getting readers is important . ) On the other hand , it 's difficult to commit to regular updates , and it 's nice to avoid issues such as whether other authors should be unhappy that their latest results have n't made it into the survey yet . In that case , should the Arxiv version contain a note that an earlier version was published in so-and-so journal ? If you update the arXiv version of a paper after publication , it 's critically important to be clear about how it relates with the published version . Otherwise you risk confusing and upsetting your readers . I would recommend against removing anything from the survey over time . It would still be accessible via past versions on the arXiv for those who know to look there , but it 's annoying to send a student to learn about X in Arani 's survey and have them report back that it 's not covered .
As editor I would not accept this in a publication . If it is published it should be referenced . Yes , it bumps the references for the authors and yes , bad science may attract a fair amount of citations for all the right ? / wrong ? reasons . But , it is not up to the authors to decide how referencing should be made , journals have guidelines that should be followed . Having the citation properly referenced makes it easier for others to find the article and see it for themselves . Furthermore , from another point of view the statement that something is " unscientific " is not appropriate either . It is an opinion . The cited paper can be unscientific but the academic way to show this is not to just say it but to prove it . Your quote is a specific case , of which I know nothing , so the reply concerns the general case but I would react if I saw something like that in a paper I edit and I would ask the authors to stick to facts . One last point is that if a paper is really bad , then it should be considered for retraction . That is how scientifically extremely poor , bordering on dangerous , papers are handled .
I know people who restate whole proofs of mathematical theorems , either because the proof itself is interesting , or simply because the original presentation of the proof is poor in their opinion . It is completely fine to summarize works of other people in your work , you just have to make it completely clear that it is not your work . But you can quote even whole paragraphs IMHO , without much problem ( surely in math/natural science , I 'm not sure how 's it in philosophy and such ) .
This may depend to some extent on hiring norms in your field/country . I would assume that if they are interviewing people in July , it is because they really need someone to start teaching in the fall . ( Otherwise they would wait another year and hire for next fall , when there would be more candidates available ; I would assume that by this time of year , many people are off the market . ) As such , I would n't think they 'd be likely to go for a deferred start date , or a complete release from fall teaching . A modest teaching reduction is conceivable ; you may be able to tell during the interview whether this would seem to be in line with their needs ( e.g. if there is one particular class that they really need someone to teach ) . The size of the department may also give some indication - a large department is more likely to have some flexibility than a small one . You might be able to negotiate for classes that require less advance preparation ( e.g. introductory courses instead of advanced ) . You might also be able to get more money for relocation , on the grounds that you 're moving on short notice . But my gut feeling is that you should be prepared to show up and start teaching in September .
There are a myriad of reasons why a student could have barely passing grades and good attendance . Not everyone is able to grasp the concepts as quickly and as well as others . They may have a learning difficulty , or they are taking on something to extend their knowledge and skills . An example , my short term memory is no good under pressure , such as in an exam - I barely passed , and had conceded passes twice - does that make me less deserving ? I 'll let the fact that I am now just finishing my PhD in the same topic area answer that question . Good attendance is an indicator , albeit , not conclusive of effort , but more conclusive if they had not attended at all .
I think there 's two parts to the question , one about anonymity , one about content . In terms of anonymity , it 's unlikely that your paper would be rejected , at least in my field ( which is not math/CS ) . While papers are submitted anonymously , in reality , reviewers sometimes have a good idea of who the author is . A reviewer can recognize the submission 's subject area and approach from other work you 've published/presented , or be tipped off by little things like the citation of an unpolished thesis ( which likely only the author would know about ) . If reviewers think they know the author , and there 's a conflict of interest , they contact the editor ; if they do n't see a conflict of interest that would bias them toward or against who they think is the author , they just review it . That 's been my experience at least . In terms of content , it 's a bit dicier . I know this is n't something you 're asking about , but I figured I 'd address it for completeness sake . I assume that you 're referring to questions that are fairly small , narrow , and specific , and whose answers do n't make up the core of your paper . If so , no problem . But an editor or reviewers might take issue with you using answers you get here as your own , especially if they 're central to your argument . You probably know that already , and I 've never seen it occur in any blind review I 've done , but I feel better including this caveat in my answer to your main question .
I do n't think there 's any way to stick a citation and figure reference right next to one another in a non-ugly way , so I cheat . When faced with a situation like this , I reorganize the sentence so that they are separated , e.g. : The SuperFramework [ 1 ] , for which a screenshot is shown in Figure 1.1 , ...
It is down to the supervisor , i myself believe any extra research projects adds a LOT to your own skills . Being taken out of your comfort zone and learning new skills improves yourself as a researcher . Besides how much " real " work time can you devote to one PHD before your productivity falls off dramatically . I see a lot of PHD 's concentrate soo much on their project that they do n't spend enough time learning new things that makes them so much more productive in the long run . However , aimlessly going to lectures where you do n't apply those skills is less worthwhile than doing a project . Having said that , if you know a good lecturer whose lecture series illuminates a previously difficult and unknown area , and those gems are out there , then it is not wasted time . Devoting your time to a job unless it does teach you new skills may be pushing it .
end question
start question
What does " pers . commun " stand for in academic papers ?
As said by Thomas in a comment , it means personal communication . Under this phrase , there can be any kind of communication : a discussion ( in the university corridors , at a conference , before a couple of beers etc. ) , an email or whatever . The communicated piece of information might be something already published , something that is going to be published , or something that will be never published but it is related to the communicator 's experience . For instance , while doing a certain research , I might stumble across some curious phenomenon of which I do n't know the origin : the phenomenon might be totally secondary with respect to my research , but I 'm curious and I ask someone else , maybe an expert in another field , the origin of this phenomenon . Then , while writing up a paper I might say : you see that bump over there in Figure 2 ? Well , it has nothing to do with what I 'm saying here , but it 's due to this and that , Jack told me ( tacitly : I 'm writing this in the paper because then you , reviewer , will not ask me : hey , what 's that bump in Figure 2 ? ) In your examples , instead , the personal communications are really more related to the research described in the papers .
Ir . means a masters degree in Engineering . source : Belgian Education :) I added a " reference " . This Prof. Dr. Ir . received a M.Sc . degree in electrical engineering and the Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven ( K.U.Leuven ) , Belgium Also , from wikipedia : Belgium In Belgium , there are two types of engineering degrees : <URL>
" First look " is a stage in the ScholarOne Manuscripts ( S1M ) system used by many journals . The First look stage means that your manuscript , after an " Accept " decision is scrutinized to see if it adheres to journal standards ( a.k. Instruction for authors ) and that figures are of sufficient quality ( resolution for bitmaps ) . The journal editor ( s ) handle ( s ) this stage . Your paper may be returned to you to fix specific formatting problems BUT NOT changing the content . See <URL> So " First look " is not a general name for a stage but is specific to S1M . Other systems or journals may of course be using such a term for other purposes but it is not a general publishing term . The stage it represent will , however be found in all journals .
I am a scientist working in a company and frequently collaborating with university academics . There is no difference between the papers we write . People at companies are more likely to write more applied papers , and people at universities are more likely to write more theoretical papers , but the distributions are highly overlapping .
As said by Thomas in a comment , it means personal communication . Under this phrase , there can be any kind of communication : a discussion ( in the university corridors , at a conference , before a couple of beers etc. ) , an email or whatever . The communicated piece of information might be something already published , something that is going to be published , or something that will be never published but it is related to the communicator 's experience . For instance , while doing a certain research , I might stumble across some curious phenomenon of which I do n't know the origin : the phenomenon might be totally secondary with respect to my research , but I 'm curious and I ask someone else , maybe an expert in another field , the origin of this phenomenon . Then , while writing up a paper I might say : you see that bump over there in Figure 2 ? Well , it has nothing to do with what I 'm saying here , but it 's due to this and that , Jack told me ( tacitly : I 'm writing this in the paper because then you , reviewer , will not ask me : hey , what 's that bump in Figure 2 ? ) In your examples , instead , the personal communications are really more related to the research described in the papers .
As per the comments on your question , I think this is really context specific and the role of an author can vary quite subtly from area to area . I 'll try give a general answer to the general question first , and then look at the specfics of your case afterwards . How to handle not being credited for research software development in papers ? The first question is whether or not you should be credited for the software you developed in the paper . The answer is predicated on what precisely the contribution of the paper is and what the contribution of the software is . If , for example , ( part of ) the core contribution of the paper is describing optimisations and techniques that you invented and applied in the software , then I think it is more than fair that you should be credited as a co-author . If , for example , the core contribution relates to a methodology for doing X where your software was specifically designed for that methodology , then you should probably be credited as a co-author or , at the very least , mentioned in the acknowledgements . If the core contribution of the paper is not directly related to the software itself but the software is used to some ends , then you should probably not be credited on the paper ( otherwise Linus Torvalds would have millions of publications ) . But if the software system was described in another paper and played a significant/specialised role in the current paper , you could expect a citation . Since the publications would n't be possible without the systems I developed would I have any remit to ask for credit and/or authorship ? I think your reasoning is a little flawed here . Making a research paper possible does not entitle you to co-authorship ( as a simple counter-example , if paper A builds upon the results of paper B such that paper A would not be possible without paper B , the authors of paper B should not expect co-authorship on paper A ) . Providing part of the core contribution of the paper -- the reason why it was accepted in the first place -- entitles you to co-authorship . I noticed something crucial in your comments that you did n't clarify in your question : " Since xxxx our system has collated data on x cases and found that . . " The authors should absolutely not be claiming credit for a system they did not design or build . This is clearly wrong . ( And it also indirectly suggests that part of the contribution is indeed the system and the authors are trying to claim credit for it . ) Since you know the authors , you should talk with them , show them the relevant quotes in the papers and tell them that you are not happy with them claiming the system as their own . Tell them that if they wish to continue claiming the system in future then you should be a co-author on the paper . If you wish to escalate , you can contact the editor ( s ) of the journal ( s ) involved and tell them your story . The editor ( s ) might agree to let you publish a letter referring to the specific paper and outlining your case . This should be considered the " nuclear " option . EDIT : Not in answer to the question , but this quote in the transcript of Hamming 's address " <URL> " ( well worth a read for anyone in research ) reminded me of this question : I also did a second thing . When I loaned what little programming power we had to help in the early days of computing , I said , " We are not getting the recognition for our programmers that they deserve . When you publish a paper you will thank that programmer or you are n't getting any more help from me . That programmer is going to be thanked by name ; she 's worked hard . " I waited a couple of years . I then went through a year of BSTJ articles and counted what fraction thanked some programmer . I took it into the boss and said , " That 's the central role computing is playing in Bell Labs ; if the BSTJ is important , that 's how important computing is . " He had to give in .
To be short , yes . According to the <URL> , it means ' see the index ' . It basically tells you to refer the index section and look for the topic that is discussed in the context where it is cited . Note : This question was asked in both Academia.SE and English.SE to benefit both communities as there is n't a single standard dictionary that could be found online to define this term . Credits go to the <URL> in English.SE for answering my post .
First a disclaimer : I personally do not agree with some " ways of life " I am going to describe and already upvoted other answers :-) . is it possible to be a researcher without concerning about " Publish or perish " ? YES , albeit probably only in atypical settings . firstly , at this site , we tend to forget that academia is not only the first league of the few top-notch research universities , but includes a MASS of smaller universities and research institutes in all sorts of small , hidden corners of the world which tend either not to produce academic output in terms of journal articles , books , conference papers , etc. , but at which they live and breath by e.g. , primarily education , local politics , etc. . Yet , on paper they claim to do research , so working there , you would be officially a researcher . I am speaking for instance about universities in countries , where rigorous science and high education , for whatever reasons , does not have a very strong tradition . At such places , doing research would resemble a kind of a <URL> . Most often , at least at some stage in the career , you still need to publish something . E.g. a dissertation would probably suffice . But often an interview with such a researcher in a local newspaper would count at the place more than a first-class academic journal . Being coined an expert on X by the local media a single time would allow you to survive at such a university for a decade ( at any level from a PhD student to a Full Professor ) without being concerned with perishing . If there is a desperate lack of teaching staff , then you do not have to care even for being any good teacher either and you would n't perish . I know personally people who are are doing some research ( or at least everybody around says so ) for decades without moving from a place and without publishing even a technical report and do not perish . to a more optimistic note , though being pedantic now , you can easily be a researcher and not publish in the industry . Many industrial researchers do not primarily work for the benefit of the humankind ( as you could see said in academia ) , but for the benefit of a company . finally , I speculate there could be some special professorship positions where you do not have to worry about publishing anymore , because you are not about to perish anymore .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
I think this is a good question . Let me propose some guidelines : 1 ) A religious invocation should occur at the beginning of the talk or the end of the talk , but not in the middle of the talk . People often begin talks with material that is unrelated to the topic of the talk itself , e.g. thanks to various organizers ; comments about the weather , the venue or the town ; jokes ; and so forth . It seems to be clearly asking too much for someone to speak only about their scientific field during the entirety of their talk . However , at a certain point you get down to business and the " talk itself " in the narrower sense begins . One should not ( of course this is an opinion , but a strongly held and easily defensible one ) mix religion with the material of the talk itself . 2 ) A scientific talk is not an occasion for proselytization . To me whether religious material is appropriate depends a lot on the purpose one has in bringing it up . If you include religious material as an attempt to convert audience members to your religion , I think that is really problematic and unethical . If you include religious material for other promotional reasons , then I still have a problem with it , just as I would be with someone promoting their not wholly scientific company or product . ( Even wholly scientific promotion might not be so great , but that 's a different answer . ) On the other hand , it is a totally standard thing to have the last slide of a talk give thanks to various people and institutions . If you feel deeply grateful or thankful in the religious sense , then it seems natural to want to express those feelings , given that other speakers are thanking people and things ( e.g. the US government ) that , in your sincere opinion , have not helped you out as deeply or fundamentally . At any rate , it does not bother me if someone ends a talk by thanking some theological entity . 3 ) One should not express religious sentiments in a scientific talk in a way that encroaches on anyone else 's religious sentiments or lack thereof , nor which implicitly or explicitly invites or requires participation or complicity from the audience . Thus " Alhamdulillah " is probably okay ; " Now Thank We All Our God " is probably not . In general , in ( e.g. ! ) an academic context , one should be respectful of others ' beliefs and views , and one should not be controversial or exclusionary in anything without a specific intellectual purpose for doing so . One should also be respectful of others ' time and realize that speaking in front of a group is a privilege . On the other hand , academics are human beings and can choose to say things which are not strictly necessary . In my calculus class last week , I had students identify a quote about mathematics being someone 's worst subject followed by a careful and insightful consideration of the reasons for this . The quote turned out to be from Malcolm X . What calculus reason could I possibly have to quote Malcolm X ? None . But I thought it was interesting and perhaps important in its own way . I enjoy my freedom to do that , so it is not a hard sell for me to give leeway to those who want to make some kinds of religious statements , so long as they are in line with the above guidelines .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
Some journals restrict by word count , others by page count , yet others by odd hybrids such as counting each figure as a certain numbers of words . In the case of the journal you mention , it sounds like it is , in fact , page count , with a limit of 30 . Usually , if there is a page-count restriction , the journal also prescribes submission format more precisely , so you may want to look into that as well ...
That is a rather confusing request , actually . However , what I think the job offer is looking for in a " statement of interests " is a description of the research areas you are interested in , while the " statement of research " would be a listing of projects you 'd plan to start if you were hired . However , in many job postings , those two items would potentially be conflated into a single statement . So I 'd recommend that you contact the department . I 'd recommend doing this by phone , if possible -- that way , you do n't have to give as much identifying information .
As @vadim123 said in the comment , this is to estimate the size of the special issue . If it were too small , the journal may decide to : make a very small special issue ; join special issues from two conferences into one ; cancel the special issue and propose acceptance of the paper through a standard process . If the special issue is too large , they would typically make it into a supplement . What should you do ? Reply yes or no for your participation in the special issue , and if yes , then the estimated length , like : " We 'll provide the full proofs while in the 10-page extended abstract there were obly sketches , it 'll be circa 20 pages long . " If they wanted more information , they would have asked for it explicitly .
This is a rising <URL> topic in the area of <URL> and <URL> . Last year there was controversy with <URL> . There is no set policy , though they are being devolped . Most recently there is the <URL> The <URL> principles state : Awareness . Scientists have an obligation to do no harm . They should always take into consideration the reasonably foreseeable consequences of their own activities . They should therefore : always bear in mind the potential consequences -- possibly harmful -- of their research and recognize that individual good conscience does not justify ignoring the possible misuse of their scientific endeavour ; refuse to undertake research that has only harmful consequences for humankind . The US NIH <URL> is often consulted for such research concerns and has a report <URL> and has a series of <URL> . The <URL> does not address publication restrictions/censorship .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
Running a journal with Wiley as a publisher , Wiley 's instructions state JPEG , TIFF and EPS are acceptable formats . Since many authors supply figures in PDF and PNG I started to pass these on to the type-setter and found that no issues erupted . It is therefore clear that publishers may lag behind with their recommendations while type-setters are quicker to adapt to " new " formats . I imagine the lag is possibly a lack of interest to update what works , but can also be because they work with many type-setters and printers and wish to maintain a largest common set of files that they know all can accept rather than having to constantly adapt to individual services ' capabilities . I am fully aware that this thinking is a bit arcane and that any type-setter/printer that can not handle almost everything has very little potential for survival in today 's competitive world . Anyway . I would suggest asking the journal if it is possible to use PNG in your case , or do as many authors have done in " my " journal , send them in anyway . It may , for example , be possible to send in a JPG and a PNG copy of the graphics asking them to use the PNG if possible . As a side point : PNG is in my opinion the best pixel format because of its strong loss-less compression except for photographs , something it was never intended for anyway . Using PNG graphics will keep down the size of final PDFs of the article which is a good goal to have . So in my case , I encourage authors to provide PNG even though Wiley does not .
The reason for using " her " more frequently nowadays is to correct an ongoing imbalance : in general , for a long time , " his " has been used , even where a more neutral pronoun ( " one " ) should have been used instead . Grammatically , however , any of the recipes you suggest would be appropriate : it is only the matter of the particular taste of the author . I would recommend , though , that when using both " he " and " she , " that you use one consistently throughout a particular usage . Do n't write " she/her " in one sentence , and then " he/his " in the one after . A few paragraphs later wo n't be a problem , though . The reason " one " is not nearly as popular is that it is somewhat awkward-sounding ; too many " one " and " one 's " in the same sentence makes it feel too stiff and impersonal . ( It 's a bit of a catch-22 , I know , but that 's the way it is ! ) One other option that you did not mention , though , may be the simplest route of all : simply use collective plural pronouns : use " they , " " their , " and " theirs . " It gives you the benefit of including everybody , without having to contort your writing to do so . ( I would also comment that some books go out of their way to be gender-neutral , particularly through the use of " gender-neutral " names : Chris , Sam , Pat , Jean , and so on . )
You can submit both papers to one or two different conferences , as long as you have two new contributions in them . Side Note It is advised not to cut the " meaty " part of a very nice contribution , into two or more different papers/journals . This sort of " slicing " put your future academic life at risk , because there are some academics that write many poor papers , by just slicing a contribution into different papers ; and they are very well known for their " efforts " . So , do not put your academic career at jeopardy , and think this through ( i.e. , contribution ( s ) you want to discuss in each paper ) .
In-major means classes related to your major . In your case , these would be all the Computer Engineering classes you have taken as well as any major requirements from outside the department . These do not include classes required by the school ( e.g. writing requirements ) or high level classes from outside the department that do not related to your major .
end question
start question
Is it common and acceptable for a postdoc to leave before contract ends ?
Usually , a postdoc is a normal contract between an employer and an employee , and as such , terminating it earlier than its date depends on the contract and/or the country . It should be normally specified on the contract , otherwise the laws of the country should apply . For instance , in the UK , I have had a notice of 1 month , in Italy , it was 3 months . It is normally acceptable for a postdoc to leave before the end of the contract , although it depends on the situation . If the employer does not provide any guarantee for further employment , and if the postdoc has found another offer , starting earlier than the end of the current contract , then that 's the rule of the game . If the postdoc has found a much better offer ( for instance , a permanent position ) , then that 's also the rule of the game . If personal reasons are involved ( going with a partner , going back to home country , etc ) , that 's quite fair . By acceptable , I mean that the employer should normally not make any problem ( assuming the legal obligations are fulfilled ) , and might even be supportive in the end of the contract . A case that might not be acceptable is to leave in the middle of a contract , breaking some work commitment ( e.g. , an experiment to run ) for a reason that might not appear very strong . But in the end , it depends a lot on the relationship between the postdoc and the employer . The point to remember is that Academia is a small world , and that in general , it is worth keeping good relationship with former employers . In doubt , talk with your current employer , or with a mentor at the place you 're working at to know what the rule normally is .
There may of course be differences between different academic cultures and systems but in essence you should be free to read whatever you want . Yes , you will of course need to read some literature to keep yorself up to date with your field to the extent that you can teach whatever courses you need to teach . I assume teaching is something you are ordered to do . Your own research adds the need to read other papers but since you decide your field you also decide what you need to read . If you find other areas of interest ( still within your or related fields ) then I can not see that as a problem . There are many aspects of science such as methodology that can be extracted from , for example , neighbouring fields . In my own case , I find I have a different problem : simply not time enough to keep myself updated to the level I would like . So , reading literature irrelevant to my major field is simply not imagineable . So in the end the answer will depend on what your job situation looks like and what the expectations are , what you are ordered to do and what is your own initiative as well as what might result if you do not fulfil the goals of your employer .
Just to expand on Peter 's answer , there is a saying on the University of Canberra 's <URL> regarding academic papers : Academic material is not meant to be read . It is meant to be ransacked and pillaged for essential content . Particularly , some of their advice for reading academic texts may be of help in helping you with the time taken to read and summarise the texts that you have , specifically before you start reading , have a question already that you want answered and very importantly , to optimise your time in reading academic papers : If there is a summary , a conclusion , a set of sub-headings , or an abstract , read that first , because it will give you a map of what the text contains . You can then deal with the text structurally , looking for particular points , not just reading ' blind ' and so easily getting lost . I always have a subject-based dictionary on hand as well .
they do n't seem to understand the subject very well . You sound like you are in a level of expertise that you could judge the quality of the lectures . You may then ideally speak to the professor about your allegation they still do this . I am ignoring the regional limitations and considering the question in a general context . Is it even considered an accepted practice ? Assuming that there are no institutional guidelines that goes against assembling questions from the internet ( which you must check if you have n't done already ! ) , from a logical perspective viewing this as a student , the practice is similar to posting questions from the text book or peer reviewed journals . The professor in any case is responsible for the question and its relevance can be questioned with supporting evidence . From the point of view of a student , you could also do a student peer review about the quality and relevance of the question supported by discussions and critical reasoning . If the result of such an assessment goes against the question , you could then report him/her with proof your views about the practice . NOTE - This is not limited to internet based questions but also any questions even from the sources you think are authentic .
Visa issues can be seriously problematic , especially given the high degree of arbitrariness that is often applied toward people coming from disfavored countries in the developing world . For example , consider the <URL> . Given this I would recommend using the following criteria in making a decision : Is the person being reasonably aggressive in acting to secure a visa ? If the student is attempting to secure a visa and being blocked/slowed by outside forces , time to secure the visa should not be held against them . If the person is not bothering to act towards securing a visa , then it 's the same as not bothering to physically move , and they can be let go with a clean conscience . Is there a concrete time limit on the funds ? If external requirements mean the money is on a short-term " use it or lose it " status , e.g. , a 1-year externally funded project that includes a task for a postdoc , then the person may be disqualified through no fault of their own by the circumstances . In this case , I think it is appropriate to put the deadline early enough to have a reasonable chance at hiring an alternate person to fill the post . The deadline should be made clear to candidates as early as possible , however . If the timeline can be flexed and the person is being reasonably aggressive in pursuing the visa , however , I think that it is morally important for the ideals of science to continue to extend the offer . Science should be , to the extent possible , practiced openly for the general benefit of humanity , and it needs all of the diversity of strong intellectual contributors that it can obtain , no matter where they may originate , so long as they are honest and open contributors . Giving a person time for visa issues to resolve is one small but important thing that an individual scientist can do to support that ideal .
Your role as a teaching assistant is to further the educational goals of the course ( as determined by the instructor and/or the department ) . If encouraging your students to read these materials furthers the educational goals of the course , then you should do so . If not , then you should n't . Since the instructor and/or the department determines what the educational goals of the class are , you should check with them first , and use your extra material only with their approval . ( Besides for the issue of making sure your material is consistent with the goals of the course , it also makes sense for them to be aware of what is going on . )
I think it is perfectly reasonable to expect a timely response , however it seems to be the case that many graduate schools are overwhelmed with applications and underestimate the time it takes to deal with them . A slightly more cynical view would be that many graduate school admin departments are understaffed and do n't have the resources to cater for expected number of applicants . In my case I submitted my application on 28 Feb and was informed that interviews would take place " during the week of the 19 March " . This date came and went and I assumed I had not been successful , so I called the Faculty Graduate Office the following week and was informed that the process was taking longer than expected but I would be notified of the status in due course . On 5 April I received an email saying I had been selected for interview and " we will contact you shortly with an interview date and time " . On 25 April I was given the interview date ( for the middle of May ) . I would recommend that you just call them and ask to know the status .
Yes , but to avoid confusion , clearly label it as such . Similar to how you can list papers with ( submitted ) or ( under review ) , you can list presentations and posters as ( confirmed ) or some other indication that the plan is final and has been accepted . If you do n't label it as such , there is a risk the reader may believe the year is erroneous .
Is it possible to write both of them in the last place as co-last authors ? No . As expected , an author list is not a <URL> or a <URL> , but a simple flat ( one-dimensional ) list . There is exactly one last author . Possible solutions or mitigation of the issue include : Alphabetical author list . This happens in some field , and is totally unheard of in some others ( including chemistry and biology , which is your field , so this might not be a possibility ) . Having two contact authors , or have the professor who is not last author to be the contact author . In the past I have used this as a way to " pacify " a co-author who was n't happy with his spot on the author list . ( Needless to say , it 's a perversion of the system , and should only be done if the author can actually act as contact author . ) Have a statement indicating the contributions of each author ( " X and Y contributed to this work equally " ) . Some journals require such statements , some will refuse to include them , so your mileage may vary . I doubt this will pacify your reluctant supervisor , though : people who are worried about their rank in the author list are most probably thinking about how it looks like on a publication list or CV . Have the head professor take responsibility for the final decision ( as senior professor and project instigator ) . That 's the most sound solution , but it does not mean it 's an easy one . Good luck with your negotiation ! And remember that they 're not yours to handle ( see my last point ) !
In addition to gerrit 's answer ( which I completely agree with ) , if you are in the situation where it would be hard to decline ( conferences sometimes have very short deadlines ) , you might review this paper as a " non-expert " . It 's indeed quite common ( at least in Computer Science ) that the review should indicate both the score ( i.e. , reject/accept ) and the confidence of the reviewer . If you indicate a low confidence score , then your decision has a lower weight than those with higher confidence . In that case , you can review the paper from a more global point of view ( like any non-specialist reader would see the paper ) : is the problem well explained , does the solution seem consistent with the problem description , is the language correct , etc. . Ideally , it would be better to decline the review , but if the paper is also reviewed by two or more experts , then your review could bring a good non-expert vision . If the paper is reviewed only by non-experts , then either the paper is off-topic , and it 's the author 's problem , or the PC chair did n't do the job correctly .
I 'd recommend trying to gather some objective data on outcomes . For example , in the <URL> you can search by " name of school " and " year of degree " to find a list of people who graduated in 2014 or 2015 . It 's not guaranteed to be complete , and it sometimes mixes together people who were in different departments at the same university , but it 's usually pretty good ( and sometimes easier than finding this information on math department websites ) . Then you can start googling people , with " math " appended if necessary , to see what you can find . If you ca n't find any indication that someone is working in academia , then they probably are n't . If they are , then you can gauge how pleased you would be with such a job . This should give more reliable data than self-reported difficulty of finding postdocs , because it avoid filtering through the departmental culture . Some cohorts of grad students are optimistic and enthusiastic , while others are more apprehensive , and it 's not clear to me that this correlates particularly well with actual success on the job market . It 's also worth keeping in mind that the relevant issue is job opportunities , not actual outcomes . If one person complains about the difficulty of finding a job and another does n't , you ca n't conclude anything without knowing where they were applying . ( Sometimes students at more prestigious universities apply mainly to fancier postdocs , because they would n't be happy with less prestigious jobs . ) Unfortunately , this is more difficult to gather objective data on , but I think it 's a second-order effect .
You should discuss this situation with your department graduate chair or a similar authority . It is important to give your program feedback so that they can improve . However , keep your feedback constructive . The word " report " is excessively negative . I think you should adopt some perspective . Often , graduate level courses are not treated as seriously as undergraduate courses because graduate students are expected to spend their time on independent research , not course work . Also , while you may be paying a lot of tuition , it is unlikely that an adjunct professor is receiving very much pay . Many adjuncts are working many jobs to pay their living expenses . They often receive no training from employers . Poor teaching by adjuncts can reflect problems with the structure of the institution rather than with the individual adjunct .
It 's acceptable , but it probably wo n't help and could even easily hurt your application . It might be taken as a threat to the department , i.e. it 's like saying , " I could take this fabulous industry job I 've been offered if you do n't admit me ! " I might find this off-putting if I read it in an application . Departments are n't usually short of applicants , so a reviewer might just put your application aside thinking , " OK , you just go ahead and take that position . I have 50 more applications in this pile over here to go through . " Determination to do research is n't the most important factor in demonstrating your ability to complete a Master 's or PhD program . The internship by itself helps show your passion for research , and maybe helps show that you 're capable of it , but the idea that you 're highlighting your willingness to bail on the internship in order to pursue a higher degree might say to some committee members that you 're also willing to bail on the graduate degree program if something better comes along ( like a nice offer from Google or Microsoft in you 're in Computer Science ) . I think you 're better off using the current internship to show that you are able to make progress in research , and leave the idea that you 've been offered a job extending that research aside , lest you come off as pretentious or threatening . There are lots of suitable graduate school candidates with internships or prior research experience who might also be suitable to the same program . Use yours to show that there 's something different about you .
I want to prepare some exercise sheets for a course . I am wondering whether or not it is OK to take some exercises directly from the textbook . Yes . Regardless of the legality or scholastic integrity of copying exercises from required textbooks , recommended textbooks , non-required textbooks , other books in your personal or institutional library , course web pages , random pieces of paper found in classrooms , and the like , it is common and accepted practice to do so , typically without attribution of any kind . Unless you 're teaching a popular MOOC ( which attract lawyers like certain substances attract flies ) or writing a popular textbook ( likewise ) , nobody is going to come after you for copyright violation . But if it 'll keep you awake at night otherwise , rewrite the problem in your own words before you distribute it to your students . Of course , you should also include your own original problems . ( Just do n't be surprised to see another instructor use them later . )
This reasoning is Wrong and Bad in several ways . First , computing " mean impact factor " for a person or group is insane and should be resisted at all costs . Even amongst IF-crazy groups , the metric is generally how many high-IF publications have been obtained ( ignoring low-IF publications ) , not the fraction of high-IF publications . Second , even if you 're going to commit yourself to such insanity , the reasonable mathematical interpretation of " no impact factor " is " IF = 0 " , not " omit from data . " Thus , if you 're using this crazy statistic , it should be worse to publish in a no-IF venue . Finally , a journal with no IF generally falls into one of two categories : either it is good but very new ( or just not yet covered by ISI ) , in which case it will likely have an IF in a couple of years and the strategy will be undone , or else is it complete trash and likely predatory , in which case it will be a worse stain on your record than a moderate-IF publication , even amongst the most IF-crazy communities . My only possible conclusions are that either : your supervisor is seriously distorted in their thinking , or your supervisor is lying to you out of embarrassment to cover the fact that they published ( intentionally or accidentally ) in a trash/predatory journal .
There certainly is no " correct " answer to this question , as it depends on two factors : ( 1 ) the company ( some will see it as useful , most probably wo n't ) , and ( 2 ) the type of postdoc ( with or without management tasks ? project lead ? PI on a small project ? independent or highly dependent of a professor ? ) . However , at least here in Switzerland and for Computer Science , the rule of thumb is that as soon as you are 100 % that you wo n't stay in academia , every further month spent as a postdoc is inefficient in terms of career development . Yes , some companies may count your years as postdoc as some sort of relevant leadership experience , but most wo n't , and even those that do will consider a similar candidate with the same number of years working in industry to be much more attractive . There is also another angle to look at this - you are currently looking to move into industry , and you have differing opinions from people that are already working in industry and people that are not . In absence of any other information , you should probably give more weight to the information provided by the insiders .
In brief : no , in mathematics in the U.S. , you do not " have to choose " a research topic prior to beginning your PhD . At the same time it is _ of_course _ good to have something to be enthusiastic about , curious about , fixated upon . But that can change , and probably should change as you learn more . It is apparently the case that in the U.S. , and to some degree elsewhere , in mathematics , undergrads and even M.S. students really do n't get enough background to understand contemporary mathematics at all , except very superficially . Fine , that 's not a moral failing ... maybe just evidence that there 's a lot happening in mathematics ... ( !?! ) But , then , in that light , the enthusiasms that novices have are necessarily ( by-far-typically ) ill-informed ... and will change if/when they learn more . This is not to say that one should not have an opinion , or should not admit interest in things because one knows one 's interest will change ... but only that one should anticipate that change , rather than believe that one " has arrived " at age 22 or so , and there 's nothing left to learn , and now it 's just " trying to solve problems/do research " . I understand the appeal of that , but , if we think about it , it 's better in the long run if mathematics is not that shallow or superficial . More specifically , spectral graph theory is a quite viable research area . " Expander graphs " are popular and google-able . Lots of people work on this , both from the " spectral side " , and from the " graph theory " side . And , perhaps counter-intuitively , the possible fact that there are not so many " books " treating a topic can in fact be a very positive sign ... it 's unclear . That is , if there are zillions of books on something , then chances are good that it 's an older topic and has been worked over pretty hard ... leaving less room for beginners to contribute . So , sure , it 's entirely reasonable to have specific and fine-grained interest ... as opposed to " general " interest . Like having a specific lunch rather than a lunch-in-general . :) But be utterly open to changes in your viewpoint ... as you learn more , which will be for many years . :)
You 'll very quickly learn that being an academic involves more than just writing research papers . Your time as a postdoc is when you can start learning about these other aspects , while building your own profile . A postdoc needs to do the following : Build a publication record . This will involve both what you are paid to do and your own line of research . Get involved with supervising students . Help with the PhDs in the lab , and get involved in supervising masters students . Get involved with obtaining funding . This can either be by helping your employer or ( ideally ) obtaining your own funding . Build an international reputation . Start collaborating with external parties . Gain some teaching experience . This is absolutely crucial if you want a faculty position . Learn how to manage projects and a lab . This includes overseeing the progress of projects , allocating your time ( and others ) , presenting results at meetings and writing deliverables . If you are in a lab setting , you will need to learn how to fix/calibrate/maintain critical equipment and software so that you can start your own lab some day , and you will need to become proficient in teaching more junior members on how to use that equipment . Start to devise a strategic research plan . While it is fun to do opportunistic research , solving a problem that comes along or investigating any idea that pops into your head , a better long term strategy is to formulate an interesting long term research plan and follow it , building result upon result . Be as proactive as humanly possible , without being annoying . Talk to everyone in the department , especially people whose research interests are close to your . Go to conferences and sit down and work with interesting people ( not necessarily the superstars ) .
I would like to answer this question for the best interest of the student 's , not yours . You are supervising bachelor students . They may go to academia or industry after graduation . If the student will pursue academic career after he graduates , then you should tell him to use the tools that are widely used in academia because it 's for his best interest . I think force is a too strong word . To convince him is what you would do . However , if he will go to industry , why waste his time to learn something he probably will never use for the rest of his life ? If the student does n't know what he wants to do after he graduates , it 's time for him to think about it now . Is n't it ? Here is my personal experience while I was in industry . I had to produce some document which contained math equations . I wanted to use LaTex . MS word was the tool I was told to use because of maintainability issue ( no one else in my department knew how to use Latex ) . I had to follow the order . Matlab is another story . It 's also used in industry .
In my experience supervising post-docs the goal has been to get the post-doc into a tenure-track position . I 've seen post-docs apply for tenure track positions and get them before the end of our funding for the post-doc , and I 've considered that to be a success , even though we had go out and find a replacement for the post-doc . I would encourage you to discuss this with your current supervisor . If they 're not supportive then you probably wo n't get the kind of recommendation you would need , and there might not be any point in applying for the position . If they are supportive then you can apply with some confidence . Even if you do n't get the job , you 'll have some experience with the application ( and perhaps interview ) process .
end question
start question
Why do researchers in areas requiring minimal resources apply for grants ?
I am a theoretical computer scientists in a top-10 US computer science department . To first order approximation , the only reason I apply for grants is to fund PhD students . My research does not require PhD students , but it 's part of my job as a university professor to advise them , I enjoy working with them , and I am considerably more productive when I work with them . Students in my department that are not funded by research grants or fellowships are funded instead by teaching assistantships . Being a TA requires a significant time investment , decreasing the time that these students can devote to research . Being a TA can be incredibly valuable experience , especially for prospective academics , but the first-order criterion for judging the success of PhDs in computer science is the quality of their research output . My department competes with peer departments -- and I compete with researchers in those departments -- to attract strong PhD students . If we/I want to attract strong students , we have to make credible promises of future funding to do research , because that 's what our peer departments do . Prospective PhD students understand the previous point . I work in a public university in a state with rather significant budget problems . TAs are paid from state money , which is limited . Thus , my department can only support a limited number of TAs . So if I want the department to admit more than a small number of students into my research area , I have to demonstrate that we can fund a majority of those students through grants . Students need funding to travel to conferences to present their research results , because they need to build a reputation in the research community . I could pay for my own travel out of pocket if I really had to , but most PhD students do n't have that luxury . There are a few second-order concerns as well . The day-to-day functioning of my department requires a steady stream of incoming research grants . Grant overhead pays for a lot of basic infrastructure in my department , including the salaries of all the staff our business office , half of the salaries of most other administrative staff , support for non-instructional non-research computing resources like our graduate admissions database . Grant overhead is also the source of startup packages for new faculty ( for which we are again competing with our peers ) . The only equipment I need is " pencil and paper " -- or more accurately , a laptop with a stable LaTeX distribution and a drawing program , and basic internet access . NSF no longer allows research funds to be used for general-purpose computing equipment , so I ca n't include that in my grant budgets anyway . But my university returns a small fraction of overhead directly to PIs , and I can use that to buy new laptops , to pay for additional travel ( by me , my students , or visitors ) , or even to help fund RAships . Tenure and promotion decisions , and to a smaller extent raises , do depend in part on professors ' proven ability to attract funding , especially in a department ( and college ) like mine where most faculty are extremely successful . Oh right , I almost forgot . I can pay myself an extra month or two of salary over the summer from my grants . The university pays me for only 9 months of each year ( although that pay is spread over 12 months ) , so each month of summer salary is actually more than 10 % of my annual pay .
Why not just make three lists of publications ( one for each field ) and place each with its own subheading under the general heading " Publications " ? i.e. : Publications Biology pub 1 pub 2 Astronomy pub 1 Mathematics pub 1 pub 2
I think this is a historical issue more than anything else . Until quite recently , dissertations were usually sent for microfilming , microfiching , or both , for later reproduction and distribution . As a result of this , they needed to be carefully formatted so that they would reproduce correctly when photographed . Thus the requirements for font size , margins , line thickness in graphics , positioning of page numbers , and so on . In recent years , this has not been so important , but that does n't mean universities have completely relaxed the rules regarding formatting . There is definitely an interest in having a consistent " look and feel " for theses from the same institution .
The description of this particular fellowship includes the phrase : Winners are chosen based on individual merit , including academic performance and preparation , intellectual capability , English proficiency , and the potential for contribution to scientific education and research in Vietnam . " Leadership " means the ability to work with and through others . It is much harder than people think - a good leader is humble yet decisive , a good listener yet able to motivate ; he can synthesize the thoughts of the group into a common goal and vision , use that vision to obtain resources and allocate them in a way that helps the group achieve its goals . Doing all that without appearing to be " the boss " is real leadership - something that comes with practice . Selling cookies to support your local charity is initiative ; getting together with your friends to sell lots of cookies and build a new school , that 's leadership . I have heard it said that Leadership is what bridges the gap between responsibility and authority Leadership lets you change the scale of your impact ; and since this particular fellowship is explicitly created to find individuals who will have impact on scientific research and education in Vietnam , you need people who have both the academic skills and the skill to translate this into impact " on the system " . Demonstrated leadership experience is an opportunity for the selection committee to explore whether you will be able to make an impact - they are not looking for the next CEO , but you will be amazed how much difference a good leader can make in any collaborative environment . In the US this trait is becoming so highly valued that some high schools have an explicit course " Leadership " on their curriculum - a chance for students to develop and practice these kinds of skills , often in the context of community projects . It is obvious from the selection summary that intellectual ability , preparation etc. are most important - but I hope you can see that leadership as I tried to define it here has a place in this academic environment .
Textbooks take a lot of time and effort to write , so why would a university support their faculty to do so ? Why would n't they ? Writing textbooks is an important form of scholarship , with great influence on the field , and this is something universities should strongly encourage . The only reason I can think of not to support textbook writing is the profit issue , but this is not generally an important factor , since very few textbooks make a lot of money . The fact that U.S. faculty are allowed to keep the royalties from textbooks they write is a historical contingency , and there 's no reason why the system has to work that way . However , I think it 's a good system in practice . Overall , the incentives to write good textbooks are too low , since both the financial rewards and the academic rewards are generally small compared with the time commitment . Removing the ( small ) profit motive would leave the incentives even lower , and I think the net effect would outweigh the tiny increase in university funding . What about the grad students that edit and also work on the textbook ? It seems as if they are working to fill the faculty member 's pocket while being [ partially ] supported by the department/university and expected to do research . If grad students are being enlisted as unpaid labor , then that 's a real problem , but in my experience it 's not common . If there 's any prospect of nontrivial royalties , then it 's unethical to ask students to work without compensation . Furthermore , the arrangement needs to be formal enough to include a copyright transfer ( otherwise , the students will own the copyright to their contributions ) .
My experience is in mathematics in the US . My personal experience is that people will not read anything especially deep into applying for both jobs . Everybody understands that the market is tough , and basically expects everybody to apply to every opening . I 've seen instances where a person was considered both for a postdoc and TT position at the same university , and this was not seen as an issue at all ( there was much more strategizing around the question of whether they would come for a postdoc ) . In the vast majority of cases ( without , say , a severe geographical constraint ) , I think if you consider TT and postdoc at the same place as both reasonable options for you and plausible possibilities , you 're probably kidding yourself on one score or another . Generally if you 'd even be seriously looked at for a TT job at University X , then when the postdoc committee looks at your file , they 'll say " We could hire this person for a TT job . There 's no way that a postdoc at University X is the best job they 'll get . " and they probably wo n't offer you the position . But unless you feel confident about which way it is , I do n't see any problem with applying to both . EDIT : One thing I 'll add , which is mathematics specific : if you 're applying MathJobs , the visual difference between applications for the different jobs is negligible . There is a column where you can see what positions the applicant applied for , but it 's not very noticeable . So , it 's quite possible the committee for one job wo n't even notice you applied for the other ( I have seen this happen ) .
The way I use this term , " priority " means " who had this idea first " . Of course , everyone can come up and say " hey , I totally had this idea to determine graph isomorphism in quasipolynomial time in 1990 " , so it is difficult to validate a priority claim unless there is some written material to back it up . But intellectual priority is the former concept ; publication dates are just an imperfect way to measure it . In fields where research is routinely disseminated before formal publication ( using arXiv , preprints , or conferences ) , such as mathematics , there are ( in my opinion ) fewer possibilities for issues such as " X had the idea one year before Y , but Y 's paper was published earlier " or " Y was a peer reviewer and scooped X 's idea " .
In my case ( pure mathematics ) it is about two or three weeks of hectic activity before the October 1 NSF deadline once every 2-3 years . I can not say that I do nothing else during that time but it definitely distracts me quite a bit . What helps is that we ( I and a few my colleagues and friends ) often apply for collaborative research grants ( so we have well-established separation of labor when writing , which increases the speed noticeably ) . The reports are easy if you have something real to show . I would say it takes me at most a couple of hours to write mine . Recommendation letters and reviews usually take much more time .
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
As other have already said , you should not let your past degrees out of your CV . I am just a bit surprised that they did n't emphasise the fact that it can be actually very beneficial for you . You might not want to give right away your grades on the CV [ 1 ] but I think you should definitely mention them . Doing a PhD takes time , motivation and perseverance but it also means asking yourself a lot of questions : those questions are related to the subject you are researching but also on yourself which can be pretty <URL> . Whatever you can hear , if you have a PhD program with a high rate of dropout or that take a long time to be achieved , it is not good . Showing that you already have faced turning points in your life and managed to go forward ( and have managed better ) can be reassuring for the recruiters that you will do well in the PhD program : That means you probably know yourself better . You are not keeping with a pre-establish path just because it is easy . ( I suppose that you change field after due reflexion ) You change fields : This mean that at some point you have make a decision . Taking decision ( particularly life-changing ones ) is not always easy . Particularly , when this means starting ' again ' . You are motivated : doing a Master is not a piece of cake and you knew it but still you were foolish motivated enough to go through it another time . On a side note , it also proves that you are not taken aback by what you might see as a failure and you actually try again . Even if your grades were n't good in your previous track , they did improve while the later Master . Basically , you showed that you improved and developed through time . Which is a very good point for a PhD . It also means that you were right to change . It also means that you have a broader view . Okay , you might not had good grades in your previous Bachelor and Master , but you do have them i.e. a committee of experts in the field considered that you know enough to have these degrees ! Apart if you are considering a very technical PhD ( and even though ) doing a PhD ( well really any research in general ) is doing something that nobody else has done before . Granted you start from something , but then you are on your own . Believe me , having a broader view can be very helpful on the creative side . And to finish , apart that lying or omitting key information can be seen as a huge breach of trust , I would like to ask : Do you really see yourself rejecting your past ? Do n't you want to do your PhD in a place where you know that you have been accepted as yourself as a whole ? Doing a PhD is not an easy process - not because the applications are though - because it is though . IMO , applications are just the quickest way and the least worse ( and not actually the best ) for recruiters to identify who are the people who would manage to finish it . [ 1 ] Keep this for the interview , if they ask . Disclaimer : I am French who has done a Bachelor and a Master in Organic Chemistry before doing a Master degree in Bioinformatics and actually doing a PhD in Bioinformatics in Cambridge , UK .
Fundamentally , I do n't think this problem has to do with the shift to a paperless format . Even with a syllabus on paper , my experience has been that a professor may well change it , often for good reason ( e.g. , shifting to make room for an excellent guest speaker , extending a deadline on a lab that many people are having problems with ) . I think that the real problem here is that the faculty member has made a last-minute change that makes life harder for the students . Student who thought they were done with the assignment have just discovered that they have more work to do , it may be interfering with their other plans , class or non-class , and it just plain does n't feel fair . Perhaps a good policy for that would be that no assignment can be made more restrictive once it has " started " ? There is also a place where the electronic aspect can enflame or mitigate the issue , and that may also address your original question . Online documents offer the potential for making a " sneaky " change that is not announced directly to the students . That seems to me to be something that should definitely be prohibited , and might be handled automatically by having the system send an announcement to all of the students whenever a course document changes . I do n't know Moodle , so I do n't know how hard or easy it would be to set up automatic notification ; even without automation , however , you could certainly regulate that all non-trivial changes must have a notification sent to students .
If I interpreted your question correctly , you 're asking if you can apply for graduate school one year , and , if rejected , re-apply the following year . Unless there are some field-specific norms that I am unaware of , the answer is almost definitely yes . Of course , for you to stand a chance of not being rejected a second time , your application should be significantly improved . In your case , that seems likely , as you 'll have had an extra year of schooling , possibly stronger references , perhaps some research experience . Good luck in any case !
Your question mentions both activities and job offers , for which the situation is slightly different . This answer is specific to Germany , and from the perspective of Mathematics . ( The formal structure is the same in other disciplines , but how it is handled in practice can differ significantly . ) Regarding activities : What a habilitation confers is the so-called venia docendi , the right to teach at the university . The two main consequences are The right to give lectures at the department . The right to supervise PhD students in your own name ( i.e. , not just be co-supervisor together with some other full professor ) . While the first line is somewhat blurred in practice ( for example , the department can give you a teaching assignment for a lecture even without habilitation ; on the other hand , the right to choose your lectures to teach is somewhat less useful if the department decides that those lectures will not count toward your teaching quota , so it would have to be on top of your regular duty of four classes per week ) , the second to my knowledge is hard . These rights are automatically conferred to full professors upon instatement , so the practical role of habilitation is a sort of promotion inside a department from postdoc to assistant professor ( a role that is supposed to be supplanted by the junior professorship ) . There is also a formal procedure for transferring your habilitation from one ( German ) university to another . I believe it 's also possible to get a foreign habilitation acknowledged and transferred , but that is more involved . The rights and requirements for a habilitation and the rules for the procedures are university or department policy . It also plays a role in appointments for a full professor position . In Germany , the relevant requirement in job offers is usually worded as " habilitation or equivalent qualification " . The latter option is routinely used for foreign candidates or younger researchers they want to fast-track . If this is done , it is part of the duty of the hiring committee ( and in case of candidates that make it to the short list , the external reviewers ) to explicitly state which contributions were considered as equivalent qualification . This could be a direct foreign equivalent ( such as the French habilitation or the Russian Doctorate ) , a series of high-impact papers , a published monograph ( or particularly nice textbook ) or successful direction of PhD students . The requirement is also routinely waived for candidates already holding a tenured position ( including junior professors after a positive evaluation ) , the " equivalent qualification " presumably being having received tenure in the first place . As I wrote above , instatement as a full professor automatically confers the venia docendi , so formally this makes sense ( at least within the German system . ) The legal framework here is somewhat more difficult ; schools and universities are the responsibilities of the state , not of the federal government , and the autonomy granted to the universities differs from state to state . In general , the requirements for a full professor position are set down in state law ( " Landeshochschulgesetz " , usually in the exact form I stated ) . The decision of the hiring committee , including the recognition of equivalent qualifications , has to be passed on to and sanctioned by the department , university board and ( depending on the state ) the ministry .
One of the best resources for jobs in computational chemistry ( not limited to PhD level positions ) is the job section of the <URL> . Another place where I 've regularly seen relevant postings is the <URL> .
Academic rank varies by country . But I would expect in most places a letter written by a postdoc would be considered . Selecting letter writers is often a compromise between getting a letter writer who is highly ranked and well known and getting a letter writer who is well informed . Typically one gets both when a postdoc assists a senior faculty member in writing a letter .
From the <URL> : NSF rarely provides support to foreign organizations . NSF , however , will consider proposals for cooperative projects involving U.S. and foreign organizations , provided support is requested only for the U.S. portion of the collaborative effort . For further information , contact the Office of International Science and Engineering . ( Reference GPG Chapter I.E. 6 . ) Individual funding opportunities list specific eligibility requirements . These generally say something like " The PI must hold an appointment at an eligible US institution . " There is an <URL> specifically devoted to encouraging international collaboration , and there are often specific funding opportunities earmarked for collaboration with a particular country . You 'll find examples of many such opportunities on the linked page . Having said that , it 's not impossible for NSF money to trickle down to foreign researchers . For example , I am at a US institution and I participate in a project supported by the NSF , in which our budget includes a subcontract arrangement involving researchers in Australia . As far as the NSF is concerned , this money is paid to a US institution ( mine ) , but we are allowed to use some of it to pay our foreign colleagues as subcontractors . ( The details of this arrangement were of course specified up front in our proposal . ) Specific grants may have different requirements with respect to subcontracting to foreign institutions .
From the context of your question , I assume you are a computer scientist graduate student . ( Computer scientist because you mention DBLP , and graduate student because you 're worried about people finding your research quickly . ) My answer is specific to computer science , especially the first two points . Just post your papers on your web page already . Among other things , posting your own papers will allow Google Scholar to find and index them after only a few days . Despite scary legal language to the contrary , neither ACM nor IEEE ( or SIAM , or AMS , or Springer , or Elsevier , or ... ) has any interest in suing individual researchers for providing copies of their own papers . Post preprints of your work to the ArXiv and/or your institutional preprint server . Again , despite scary language to the contrary , granting a license to the ArXiv to publish your papers does not deprive ACM or IEEE ( or SIAM , or AMS , or Springer , or Elsevier , or even ACS ) the right to later publish peer-reviewed version of your papers later . Many publishers explicitly allow you to publish post-reviewed but pre-copy-edited preprints on the ArXiv and similar servers . Posting camera-ready versions is technically illegal , but neither ACM nor IEEE has any interest in suing individual users for such violations . Post publication announcements on Facebook/Google + / Twitter/your blog . Yes , this works . Really . Give lots of talks . At a minimum , you should give talks about your results in an appropriate local seminar . But especially for really strong results , you ( or your advisor ) should also <URL> to a few other institutions to give a talk . Send copies of your work directly to a few colleagues . Just send them email with a link to your web page . ( Do n't blindly send papers as attachments ; remember that some people read email over the phone and pay by the byte . ) But do n't just spam the whole world . Limit your email to the small handful of influential people that you are sure will be interested -- other researchers working on the same problem , people whose results you directly improve or extend , your advisor , and -- if you 're nearing a point like graduation or tenure where you need letters -- a few potential letter-writers . Take the long view . It really is not important that see your results RIGHT NOW THIS MINUTE ZOMG NOW NOW NOW !!!! 111 ¡ ¡ ¡ CXI . Relax . Yes , DBLP and other indexing services operate with a delay of several months . ( Although my impression is DBLP has gotten faster , thanks to some outside funding that allowed them to hire more than one human being . ) And yeah , that 's frustrating . But in the long run , those few months of publication delay are not going to make a bit of difference .
If you make enough use of them , it 's cheaper and more efficient to use in-house services . That 's why most universities will also have a mechanical workshop , to make one-off items mostly for the physics and engineering departments . Everything is streamlined : the glassblower is an employee , not a business owner . He can spend more of his time on his products , thus his services are cheaper . The University will also make some profit from selling their services . It makes things easier for the academic staff , and there 's less bother with accounts or purchase orders . For routine jobs ( if these things are n't outsourced ) , just visit the workshop and ask for another 1L boiling flask . The academic staff know that he will always do a good job : a low turn-over rate means the glassblower ( s ) develop a strong rapport with their frequent customers , and have a good understanding of their needs . If more jobs are outsourced , this personal touch can be easily lost . Of course , it <URL> that ordinary items are usually outsourced -- a big factory is more cost effective . It 's for the one-off custom items that it still makes a lot of sense to keep things in-house .
Not everyone who reads a paper is going to be in your field and have the same background no matter how basic it might initially seem . In researching literature , I often come across sociology , economics , history , etc , papers . That initial regurgitation in a paper might seem really obvious to sociologists , economists , and historians , but it is n't necessarily so obvious for me ( and nicely tends to give references if I feel the need for further background knowledge ) . It also helps out people in the field , especially when they 're not as current on the specific topic ( when was the last time a scholar of modern American theater read Beowulf ? Likely graduate school ) . It helps for understanding the approach used as well as seeing the paper 's context , relevance , and importance within the field . Even at a basic level , when someone recaps a plot/situation in a single paragraph for me , it 's enough to jog my memory and save me from needing to pull the book back out and read a hundred pages just to follow the paper .
Instructors often use some kind of curve to adjust for the varying difficulty of exams from one year to the next . The general idea is that if ( for example ) the class average on an exam is lower than it has been for the same course in previous years but the quality of the students ' work is the same , then the exam given this year might have been more difficult than the exam in previous years . It would be unfair to students ( and also reduces the signaling power of grades ) if their grade is strongly dependent on the year in which they happened to take the course . An instructor might choose to adjust the students ' grades to account for this . It 's generally unwise to assign grades in a way that is strictly norm-referenced , without taking into account the students ' demonstrated mastery of the course material , for reasons described in <URL> . For example , if the class average on an exam is lower than it has been in previous years , but the average quality of work submitted by students is also worse than usual , then the average grade of the class should be lower ( to preserve " fairness " and also the signaling power of grades . ) Some instructors might use a curve for other reasons , e.g. if their department has a policy about the maximum number of " A " grades an instructor can give out . ( Like <URL> . )
end question
start question
How should I include a list of links in my thesis ?
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
Yes . You could mention it in your SOP and/or in your CV . I have received some applications from students in which they mentioned a technical blog , and so far it has always left a positive impression . In my opinion , keeping such a blog demonstrates : Maturity in writing and communicating ( especially if your blog communicates something technical in an informal way that is not sloppy ) . Organization of thought and effort . Initiative . Love for learning ideas relevant to your discipline .
I ca n't speak for all disciplines but in biomedical science this is generally considered an inefficient way of writing because the same sentence can be simplified to My reason ( s ) of shifting to biology from physics is ( are ) ... It 's also considered tacky but I probably have to attribute that to overuse and misuse . I will only use hypophora if the statement is highly unusual or seemingly illogical . This is a bad use because the statement is not dramatic : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling . Why ? Because ... Contrasting to : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling with a silver spoon in the kettle . Why ? Because ... is probably synchronizing better with the readers ' mental rhythm : " Huh ? Why the heck would you put a silver spoon in it ? " Then the following " Why ? " would serve a better role : to resonate with the readers . Surely enough in my own field nothing is dramatic enough for me to deploy this expression . Is " shifting from physics to biology " unusual enough to raise eyebrows ? I am not sure without too much context . My gut sense is perhaps not because I 'd categorize them both under the school of science and they do go together quite well . I 'd think " shifting to biology after spending 10 years studying physics " or " shifting to biology from classical string performance study " may probably deserve a " Why ? " Although , this is purely opinion . The part after the " Because ... " deserves attention as well . Make sure it 's followed by a very compelling reason , or your " Why ? " may be tainted with a taste of self-doubting or still-on-a-soul-searching instead of persuasion . In any case , expressions like such are unlikely very harmful if used sparingly . They also serve to inject some liveliness into the statement . I 'd consider using no more than once in a statement acceptable .
I see absolutely no reason why not . It fits perfectly well into " other academic achievements , honors , and activities " ( or whatever else your title of this part is ) . Just do n't declare it the biggest achievement in your lifetime and provide the relevant details ( conference name , level , session , etc. ) in a reasonably full and concise format so that people can appreciate what you are talking about .
Many ( if not most ) academic CVs have a section labeled " Service " that lists committee memberships , reviewing experience , outreach activities , and other university and community service . You could also reasonably include a brief " service statement " , as an addendum to your teaching ( or research ) statement , that explains those service activities ( and future goals ) in more detail . But keep in mind that you 're not describing who you are as a human being , but rather who you are as a potential colleague . The service activities you describe should have direct bearing on your suitability for a teaching job in a university mathematics department . So coaching your daughter 's robotics team could reasonably be included , but coaching her baseball team probably should n't . Also remember that your service activities are almost certainly less important than your record in teaching and research . " Service " should be the last section of your CV , and any service statement should be significantly shorter than your teaching or research statements .
The reason for no response may be anything from what Anthony Labarre mentions to what you list . I would wait at least a month before writing off an answer ; I have received answers even later than that . It is possible they are working on improvements themselves as well . In short , if you do not get a reply , you can only try again and perhaps express your request differently . You seem to have contacted all the authors . Sometimes the project leader may be too busy to pick up on questions and the younger team members may be more inclined to answer . They may , however , want to talk it over among themselves , and it is probably not a high priority . So try again in a couple of weeks . If you do not get any response , then there is probably not much you can do . You probably need to think about what can do to improve the chances for a reply . The word " collaboration " is sometimes a good way to " sweeten the deal " . Sometimes , just to give a perspective , I get requests for data that are of the sort , give me this or that , give me everything , and I often end up asking myself , why should I ? having laboured to generate the data . I am not saying you must follow such an approach to be successful but considering why the other researchers would want to help you may also help towards solving the communication problem .
Calm down ! easier said than done . Remember you know more than they do but do not put on a suit that does not fit . If you get questions you can not answer , do not get nervous , simply say : it is a good question and you will check up the answer . Do n't start putting out excuses that you are inexperienced , have n't done this before , or whatever . Let what you do speak for itself , I am sure it is more than fine . Now that the emergency is over , what can you do ? Be prepared . Check out the material ahead of time and if you are in a lab or have to help out in exercises , run through them yourself to figure out where problems may arise . This takes a little time but will help you run things smoothly . In the case of a lecture situation , you also need to be prepared , read up on the material , make a good series of slides . Show what you plan to do to someone more experienced to perhaps get feedback and pointers on improvements . A typical rookie mistake is to overwork things , put too much stuff into a lecture and set the level too high . Assessing the right level is something you learn but if you have a chance to look at others ' lectures or perhaps go back to what you experienced , you may be able to find your level quicker . If yo want a quick check on what you have done you can do a quick feedback at the end . Give each person a small piece of paper ( e.g. index card ) and have them write one or a couple of things they found good on one side and something they think could be improved on the other . Do not use the word " bad " on that side , you want to know what you did well and what might improve . Collect the feedback and check it immediately . It may help you get a sense of how you came across . You can do this on a regular basis if time permits . In the end , it is tough to get started , we have all been there with different amounts of self-confidence , experience etc. . Expect some things to go less well , it is bound to happen , we all have off days . If something is less well , use it to improve . Use your colleagues as support if you find it rough , everyone has some experience of that sort . I wish you luck . It can be really fun to teach . Look for pointers on teaching on the web and check out journals for higher ed . teaching to get ideas . There is no reason to approach teaching less seriously than what one would do , say research . The butterflies you will inevitably feel when you start will disappear and your confidence will grow with experience . Just keep calm and on top of matters .
Skype interviews are usual ( e.g. I have one with Oxford ) . The school might prefer face-to-face interviews but there is nothing wrong in sending a polite ( brief ! ) email .
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
In terms of status-enhancement or proof of merit , the actual giving of the talk is of almost no consequence . The invitation is the thing that " proves " status and merit ( such as they may be ) . So , yes , list it , all the more considering that you probably do n't have many such episodes to put on your CV . For that matter , if you yourself had some ( unfortunate , presumably ) reason to cancel from your end , still , you did get the invitation . From their end , to cancel your talk after issuing the invitation would be a fairly severe gaucherie ... so I 'd bet it wo n't happen . Even if it did , almost-surely the official reason would be some funding problems , not that they 've discovered that you 're a poseur and a bad person , etc. . So the status and virtue leading to the original invitation are not diminished . Being invited to give presentations is a kind of proof of one 's relevance to the research community . There are rumors of " an internet " , supposedly allowing easy , massive , long-distance asynchronous communication without the expenses and perils of long-distance personal travel , but until that possibility is assimilated into the academic community ... much like the notion that " publication " could mean literal publication , rather than running a status-and-merit gauntlet ... :) Joking ( ??? ) aside , it 's not the literal giving of the talk , and is not the literal publication in refereed journal , that confer status or prove merit , but the invitation ( resp . acceptance ) .
No , but make sure you cite it and mention it , to avoid being accused of copying and pasting from Wikipedia . In any case , it is great that you have contributed to Wikipedia and I wish more people considered using pieces of their introductory chapters for Wikipedia . Just make sure that people know that you copied to , not from , Wikipedia . ( I mean , the order is irrelevant , i.e. whether you first wrote text for Wikipedia or your thesis , but the authorship is . )
Write a nice thank you letter Keep in touch ; send an email every couple of years to let them know about your recent successes Pay it forward by investing your own time and energy into mentoring others , as time and opportunity permits My " gratitude role model " is a high school summer research student I had a few years ago . First , she gave me a card with a nice message at the end of the program . A year later , she emailed me to let me know that her time in my lab had really meant a lot to her , that she was still pursuing her interest in computer science , and that she was participating in another CS program that summer . From her next email , a year later , I found out that she had accepted an offer of admission ( for undergraduate studies ) from a top-20 computer science department . A couple of months ago , I got an email from my school 's K-12 outreach program ( which had organized her summer in my lab ) , informing me that this student had reached out to them to ask if she could volunteer in their programs this summer , while she 's back in town . Working with students can be a thankless task ; but the students like the one I described above really keep me going , and make me feel like it is time well spent . I can not imagine a better way to be thanked .
If you are in mathematics , there is no notion of " first author " , so you can ignore alphabetization . You can put your own name on the first slide as you normally would , and then elsewhere on the slide add " Joint work with XXXX . " Here 's an example from a slide talk I gave : <URL>
If you are after highly cited work , <URL> has such a functionality under the tab <URL> : <URL> You can search highly cited work e.g. by subject or by year but note that citations come in slowly into MathSciNet , so data from a year ago may not say too much yet .
You should definitely mention that you attended conferences . How much detail to include depends on how much space you have left after you included all of the more important information on your CV . I can not tell what is more or less important . You have to figure it out yourself . Here is what I usually do in such situations : Make a CV listing everything you have that is even slightly relevant to what you are applying for . If you went over the page limit proceed to step 2 . Divide your CV into absolutely necessary/required info and ' other stuff ' . Rank the ' other stuff ' from very important to barely relevant on some continuous scale , say 1 to 10 . Delete the least relevant info until you reach the page limit of your CV . You can apply the same procedure to your conference list . I would say it is important , but not 100 % of it if you do n't have enough room . Rank the conferences you attended from the most prestigious/impressive to the least impressive . Start listing them from the most prestigious until you hit the page limit . Leave one sentence to mention the conferences you omitted , generalizing them in some way to underline their relevance : " ... and other ( number ) conferences on topics related to molecular biology .
Yes you should . I expect that a common question in any interview would be to ask the candidate about any piece of work of which the candidate feels particularly proud or pleased . Being able to refer to your publication -- and have a copy of it with you -- would be a positive thing . Regarding your opinion of the work -- you might be your own worst critic . Clearly the journal editor felt it was acceptable for publication . In a positive spin , you could outline in your interview where you feel the work could have been improved , showing a capacity for reflective practice .
You joined a PhD program without a master 's degree ? Well ... a master of science is about doing an small version of a PhD . In that sense , it could be beneficial to show that you do have some experience in research . On the other hand , the fact that you left , probably without results or something to prove how well did you do it so far , might not be so positive . But anyway , honesty should be the most important thing , and you should n't hide what you have done before . Also , it is definitely more beneficial to fill those gaps on your CV with the PhD time , instead of letting them think that you were just lounging around ...
There is no definite answer . It really depends on how much previous literature exists , how much of it you have reviewed and cited appropriately , and ( loosely ) what the word count of the document is . Page count can misleading , as some theses have many more figures and tables than others . No one is going to skip to the bibliography , think negative thoughts , and say " you have too many references ! " without reading the document . If no individual part of the thesis could be considered as having too many citations , then the thesis as a whole has an appropriate number of citations . These related questions have answers as to how you can decide if a particular part of the thesis has too many citations . <URL> <URL>
If this is for an application for university , then you do not need to date your personal statement . That is because your application as a whole is dated and signed by you at the very end . Otherwise , you can initialize and date it at the end of the document , e.g. : KN 2014.06.30
[ I ] s graduate school necessary if I want to go into an advanced field like AI ? Are there any paths other than graduate school which I can use to get into the career ? " Go into AI " is pretty broad . What sort of job do you want to be doing ? Theoretical research ? Software development ? Engineering ? To get an idea of what jobs are out there you can look through the job postings at Google Research , Microsoft Research , IBM Research , Amazon Research , and so on . All of these do ML and AI . They have position all along the spectrum from things that only require undergraduate degrees to things that require PhD 's . I have no experience with the non-PhD path , so I ca n't tell you much about that , but a lot of their internships are geared to ML/AI PhD students spending their summers there , and then those same people get their degrees and apply for research jobs at those companies . I am wondering what my college studies should look like in order to make my interest a reality . I can tell you what is useful to know for ML and AI , besides programming : In computer science , you need to have a good grasp of the theory , taught in courses like Theory of Computation and Algorithms . Some schools also teach an undergraduate AI course . Machine learning can be viewed as the intersection between computer science and statistics , so basic statistics is important . A lot of AI and ML has to do with ( mathematical ) optimization , for that you need a good grasp of linear algebra and multivariate calculus . Some methods ( like neural networks ) require understanding differential equations and partial differential equations ( but I would put those down as fairly optional , you 'll learn the relevant material if you ever need to ) . The reality is , if you are going to go to a graduate program in AI/ML , you 'll learn all the AI/ML-specific things you need to learn there . What you need to know to get accepted into the program is very variable on a program-by-program basis , but the reality is that the coursework probably wo n't be the most important thing in the admission process . If you 're going straight for a job out of college , employers probably wo n't care much about your coursework either . It will be all about how you do at the interview , which will be very variable on an employer-by-employer basis . At the end of the day , my suggestion is to think about what job you want to end up doing and work backwards from there to figure out what you need to do to get it .
end question
start question
How can an undergraduate Computer Engineer start making publications before his Thesis ?
Take classes from professors you 'd like to do research with . Do really well . Ask good questions . Participate . Go by office hours and talk to the prof. Show interest . Try to read and understand their work . But do n't be so persistent that you become annoying . You 're looking for a personal fit as well as demonstrating your interest .
Yes , high grades and excellent letters of recommendation from the master 's program can help overcome poor grades from earlier . Remember you will apply for the PhD program a year in advance , so the professors you have the first two semesters in the master 's program will be the ones you need to ask for letters . You need to be excellent from the start of the master 's program . The other thing that can help overcome bad grades ( to some extent ) is a high score on the math subject GRE . You want to study thoroughly for that , unless you already have a high score . See e.g. . <URL>
I 'm going to disagree with Oswald . In my experience , undergraduate students do not often prove new things in pure math . I would n't even say master 's theses often contain new results . There are a few main reasons for this . Firstly , pure mathematics operates at a level that is not very accessible for most undergraduates , even those doing research . Undergraduates doing research are often well out of their depth and holding on for dear life . This can mostly be attributed to just not having enough time to get up to speed with what is considered modern mathematics . Most courses in mathematics at the undergraduate level are about math from 50-100 years ago ( if not older ) . Secondly , undergraduates do not often have the mathematical experience to know what the right plan of attack is when faced with an abstract and new problem and they may not know how to check their work thoroughly to make sure there are no major oversights or blunders . A lot of mathematics involves lateral thinking and it takes a lot of time to build those connections . The hardest part of a pure math PhD ( in my opinion ) is learning how to attack a problem no one has considered before . Standard techniques that others used may not be useful at all to you for one reason or another . An undergraduate wo n't have the creativity to navigate this kind of issue because the kind of creativity that is needed comes with a lot of experience . Even when an undergraduate student thinks they 've proved something , the nuances of their argument likely will not be apparent to them . ( This is especially true when it comes to functional analytic/measure theoretic arguments - the devil is in the details . ) Thus a proposed proof may not even be close to being right . Lastly , not many undergraduates in pure math do research because the gap they have to overcome between coursework and modern mathematics is pretty substantial . Those that make contributions in pure math are those that are very , very talented and have very thorough backgrounds ( backgrounds that rival master 's / PhD students ) . Undergraduates in pure math are not expected to make contributions . That is not what research is about for them . Introducing an undergraduate to research serves a couple of different purposes : it introduces them to more advanced topics and it gives them a taste of what research is like so that they can make an informed decision about whether or not graduate school is right for them . As such , the theses are more like surveys of a specialized topic in mathematics . There is a lot of independent learning involved and there may be some unique examples , insights , and connections contained therein . They may not be presenting " original " work , but poster sessions are there to present what they 've learned regardless of whether or not it was original . So yes , it is kind of like a lecture . They are undergraduates and far from being experts in their field . Note that I am not saying that no undergraduate ever produces new results in pure math ( there are some high school students that are better than most PhDs ) , but it is not a common occurrence and is not expected or considered the norm .
There is no need to remove the acknowledgement in the final version . I know students have done so and for very different reasons , they want to " surprise " someone , they are not on friendly terms with an advisor and does not want the advisor to see it before it is printed . etc. . The " surprise " aspect is , I would argue , greatly overrated . To not provide it because of a conflict is not likely to help the conflict . So , even if the reason is non-controversial , not including it might raise an eyebrow of a sensitive advisor . In the end , this is something that should not matter but some people are overly sensitive so ask yourself , are you confident that you will reach your intended effect by doing what you suggest , then go ahead , but if you do not feel so , avoid it . You will sometimes be surprised how much is read into a benign text such as an acknowledgement .
It sounds as though your major contribution to expanding the extent of human knowledge is in showing how the new technique can be used to confirm results ( X ) which were obtained by the old technique . So when defending your thesis , you better be very sure that you show how this new technique enhances our understanding of X !! If you are unsure how to best present this , talk to your advisor . In fact , even if you believe you know how best to present your contribution , talk to your advisor ! Take advantage of his/her experience and knowledge of the field to position yourself where your contribution can make the greatest possible impact . You need to prove that you have expanded human knowledge , so focus on how this is better than the old technique , not on how you have gotten exactly the same results . Again , your advisor should best be able to show you how to do this .
While this will depend partly on the formal requirements of the course for which you are applying , here are some general things that I look for in reading these statements as admissions tutor for our department : Demonstrated enthusiasm for the subject . Your CV and transcript will provide basic factual information about your technical skills and ability to succeed in an academic environment , but the statement of purpose lets you round out that profile with memorable detail . Be specific . If you 've worked at a tech start-up , how did that inform your decision to pursue further study ? What new skills did you learn , new challenges faced and overcome , etc ? Demonstrated awareness of the programme . I 've read essays that clearly had no understanding of what our programme covered and how we taught it . Be familiar with the prospectus and do n't be afraid to contact the admissions tutors to clarify anything . How does the style of teaching at your target university relate to your interests ? Ability to write coherently . Regardless of the subject , you will need to be able to communicate clearly . A poorly structured essay , full of grammar and spelling mistakes , is a sure-fire way to end up on the ' no ' pile . Good luck !
I am in math , and have some experience with undergrad research ( from both sides ) , and there are lots of different ways you could have a good experience with undergrad research . What would be good for you will depend a lot on your individual situation ( mathematical maturity , background , independence , etc ) and your goals ( do you want to get a paper out of it ? just get some research experience ? learn something new ? help your case for grad schools ? ) . For getting into a good grad school , what 's most important is how well prepared you are in terms of background and how much potential you show . This is evidenced by your transcript and recommendation letters . Doing novel research or writing a paper is much less important ( unless it 's much more impressive than typical undergrad math research ) . ( Note : many undergrad theses in math are just an exposition of an important topic . Some of these are very good . ) So in terms of grad school , the most important thing out of this project will probably be ( 1 ) what you learn , and ( 2 ) the impression you make on your supervisor , who should write you a recommendation . For being able to get a paper out of it , research is never certain , but it 's important that the project is well thought out beforehand . More open-ended projects may sound interesting , and teach you a lot , but may not be conducive to having a finished project in the time available . I generally find ones that involve some calcutions/computation have a higher rate of " success , " in the sense you should at least be able to do the calculations , whereas projects that require you to develop some theory may just leave you completely stumped . ( Though some types of theoretical projects where you can follow the method of another paper closely also have high rates of success . Conversely , try to stay away from projects of the form " look for pattern in this data . " ) Hopefully you can get a sense of how well thought out the project is from the description ; also knowing how successful the supervisor was with previous students may suggest this person gives high-percentage or low-percentage success problems ( but if you 're more concerned about grad school , where the students went for grad school is more important than if they published papers ) . For learning things ( which helps with grad school ) , a project where you have to learn some theory ( even if just to do computations ) is better . Both to make progress and to learn things , an accessible advisor ( say is willing to meet you once a week or so ) is better . Apart from that , I would say put some value in your general impression from talking to the potential supervisor . If you have a chance to talk to former students of the supervisor , that could also be useful .
The most common solution which I usually see is having a section called " Selected Publications " or " Key Publications " . Often people show the details only for these and you have to take some extra step ( e.g. press some link or an " expand button " ) in order to get the full publication list .
In the academical sphere , I never heard any similar . I know only Middle Europe , but multiple countries there . Its reason is n't that the Profs here would be addict , but its exact opposite : it is unthinkable on such a level , that nobody thinks it would be needed . The wider context : The long-term mental harms of drugs would make you probably ineligible to fulfill a full-time academical job . Most of the drugs have a time until they are emptied from your body . You can google for that on the net . After that , the test will be negative . But it would be much better if you would n't need such tricks , i.e. you could simply pass the test without any problem . Employers often have similar traditions , for example they can wish some papers from the police that you are n't an offender . Considering things like these are in our cultural circles nearly unheard , it is really no more as a tradition . Maybe it could serve as a little positive psychological effect to show for everybody , that your university/company is perfectly " pure " . Although knowing , that everybody laughs on this little ritual behind your back , can cause maybe more harm . I suggest do n't play the idealist liberal , allow them this show . They need it for the feeling that they are " clean " , it does n't cost for you anything , and they are your employer . There is no real reason to reject the test .
Authorship questions inevitably end up having two threads : what should be and what happens . The " what should be " is that the amount of intellectual work ( as described in the <URL> ) that each author has put into the work . As with most agreements , it is best to discuss this in advance and agree on how to evaluate the work done . Usually the first author is in charge of writing and the other author ( s ) provide feedback and contribute to the writing . If everyone follows these rules then the argument is fairly " straightforward " . In reality , we have to also deal with different types of personalities and other situations that affect judgement . It is not uncommon for persons to want first authorship if they are up for promotion or if they see that something they did not fully think was great actually is . The list could be made long . Straightening these cases out is sometimes ( if not often ) really tough . Being pragmatic , I often think about if the situation will hurt me and evaluate if the fight is worth it . In the case of a PhD student , having ones advisor as first author is not necessarily a bad thing since , hopefully , the advisor is well-known and respected . Hence some of that rubs off on the co-author . As a PhD student I think a valid argument is that you need first authorship on some of the work in your thesis . This is a particularly good argument if the " switch " occurs repeatedly . Arguing against irratianal excuses for first authorships will be hard or near impossible to win so I am a little pessimistic when it comes to such cases . You need to evaluate the situation yourself , gather objective arguments for your claim and possibly asking other faculty for advice and support .
<URL> : Open access comes in two degrees : gratis open access , which is free online access , and libre open access , which is free online access plus some additional usage rights.These additional usage rights are often granted through the use of various specific Creative Commons licenses . Only libre open access is fully compliant with definitions of open access such as the Berlin Declaration on Open Access to Knowledge in the Sciences and Humanities . See <URL> for more ideas . As a result , it depends on the contract you agreed to when submitting your article to the open access journal .
The department where you are going to submit the thesis probably has a document of PhD/thesis regulations that specify if such a thesis is allowed . For example , <URL> have the following statement : [ ... ] Scientific publications may form a part of a doctoral thesis . If the doctoral thesis consists of several scientific papers , a presentation of the guidelines of the papers submitted has to be added in an appropriate extent . [ ... ] i.e. a sandwich thesis is possible here . So you should find out if your favored departments have similar regulations and have a look in there .
In all of my experience : no one within academia cares about honor societies whatsoever . To expand on that : in academia we routinely ( closer to constantly ) evaluate people based on their academic qualifications , in a very serious way : i.e. , the " winners " get offered substantial scholarships and/or jobs . Not once have I ever heard anyone mention membership in an honor society in any of these decisions . Not for faculty hiring , not for graduate admissions , not for picking TA 's ... never . When I was an undergraduate I did join Phi Beta Kappa ( junior year : whoop de frickin ' doo ) and Sigma Xi . The way I recall it , I was moderately encouraged to do so by my undergraduate program . And I must say that the amount of money that I gave to these people -- if any ; maybe my school paid it themselves ? -- was truly negligible : at most $ 40 , or something like that . Based on this money , for many years afterwards I got : Regular newsletters from the organizations that made what looked like reasonable attempts at giving me some kind of scientific / academic contacts . ( Not that I read them ... ) Semi-regular very strange calls offering to sell me gold-laminated books and other such frippery . Often these were done with enough of a " hard-sell " solicitation to get me a little steamed : one caller spoke breathlessly about the gold-laminated books and at the end asked me how many additional copies I wanted to order at a discounted price . I mentioned that she skipped an important step , and she asked what that was . I revealed that at no point in the conversation had she asked me whether I was even the slightest bit interested in buying anything from her . The rest of the conversation was brief but tense . Based on these experiences , whenever any student asks me whether they should join an honor society -- the ones which are not supposed to be scams , like Phi Beta Kappa -- I say " I do not advise you to do it if you have to pay more than the most negligible amount of money . " However , I have occasionally talked to other faculty and university personnel about this issue , and their experiences are not always as negative as mine . What I suspect may be true ( but I have unfortunately never had the occasion to find out ! ) is that : academic honors societies may be useful for people who are leaving academia , by providing some kind of modest continuing contact with the academic world . I mean , the idea that I need to open up a bi-annual newsletter and read about what other academics are doing makes no sense for me : I learn about what other academics are doing by going to work . But for people who go off into industry -- or something else -- maybe it is valuable . On the other hand , I have to imagine that , as with so many things , the internet makes this kind of thing largely obsolete : the amount of access that any citizen of the world with an internet connection has to current academic activity is greater now than what any professor had twenty years ago . One final question : does anyone care if your CV says you are a Phi Beta Kappa ( junior year ! ) ? I suspect not -- as someone else mentioned , these awards are given for your GPA , and you put your GPA on your CV anyway . But I would , as ever , be interested to hear other perspectives .
I 've had a lot of undergrads in my lab ( physics ) . Unlike Corvus , I 'd say that certainly more than half have been net positives to the group 's research , and several have been very productive . The two most important things , I would say , are : A lot of direct contact and guidance -- not by email , but actual conversation -- either ( ideally ) from you ( the PI ) or from graduate students committed to the project and to mentoring someone . Simply being clear about tasks to be done , etc. , is insufficient ; every new researcher comes in without a good grasp of the motivations of the field , the challenges of exploring something new , etc. , and these are only surmounted by talking to people . Several times , I 've had great conversations with undergraduates in which I point out that I 'm thrilled that their experiment has failed , because now they can better understand what doing science is like , and they can pick themselves up , learn from what happened , and try again , and this is what makes them ' real ' researchers . I require a commitment of more than a few hours a week . If people are n't putting this in , we chat about the impossibility of having a meaningful project , and , again , learning how to be a ' real ' researcher . Sometimes people drop out ( or I ask them to leave ) if the motivation to do this is n't there . There 's no point in mentoring someone who ca n't commit real effort , and it does n't do them or you any favors . Your question is a great one . Best of luck , and please do n't think that mentoring undergrad research should just be a net-negative " service . " It does take a lot of work , but it can pay off !
Whether or not it 's technically legally acceptable , I would find it extremely gauche to post a publication online before it has been made available by the venue where it is scheduled for appear . Thus , for conferences I wait until the date of the conference , and for journals I wait until the " online early " copy appears . Now , if your publication is also compatible with an alternate means of publication , like arXiv or a tech report at your institution , I would find it completely reasonable to post a version up that way , citing that , and then later update the links and citation information when the " official " version comes out .
Disclaimer : This answer may or may not be different in Japan , due to cultural differences . If my answer disagrees with one with experience in Japanese academia , I 'd go with their answer . It may even be different between different labs and fields . But this is based on my experience and also on what I 've seen since in other labs I 've worked in . I was in Australia on a summer internship and I reached out to an academic at a local university who worked in my field of interest , after reading a few of his papers and checking out his website . I informed him that I was an interested potential PhD applicant who was about to enter their final year of undergrad , and I asked him if he 'd have some time available to chat with me in his lab . I attached my CV to the email and wrote a very brief paragraph with my history ( a few sentences ; do n't give them a huge thing to read ) . He replied immediately , very interested , and we scheduled an appointment for some days later . We ended up talking for a few hours and he took me around the lab , and introduced me to everyone . I was 100 % into doing a PhD with them -- it did n't work out for logistical reasons , but this is unrelated . An undergrad taking the interest and initiative to read papers , check out the research , and reach out to potential PIs is considered a very good thing . It means that you are taking the PhD / Masters as the serious and professional endeavour that it is . Especially when the undertaking involves moving to a foreign country , it implies that you are considering not only whether you are a fit in the lab , but also how living in the country could impact you . It 's always considered a good idea to reach out to your potential advisers in some way , and not everyone does this -- many advisers get blind applications . If you meet them , it gives you both a chance to see if you 'd be a good fit -- academically and personally . Both of these matter . If you do n't get along , working with them could be a nightmare ! And that goes both ways . That means that when the PI is looking at the pile of applications at their desk and designating their interest , they have something to look back on . It 's definitely something that will make you stand out . Enthusiasm is great . Of course , admission is n't decided by the PI themselves much of the time , but by an admissions committee ( not sure about Japan but this is usually the case in NA and EU ) . Especially so when you are applying for a scholarship . But an established relationship with the PI is certainly helpful and it indicates seriousness on your part . Finally : What 's the worst thing that could happen ? If you 're already going to be in the country , the worst thing is that they could say no , and you still get a nice holiday . Just do n't send many follow-up emails if they do n't reply . So personally , I 'd encourage you to reach out to potential PIs and ask , politely , if they might have the time to briefly meet with you to discuss their research and your research interests . But definitely either ask somebody who has been in Japan , or google social norms and etiquette since that is very important everywhere , but especially in Japanese culture .
It 's important to remember that you 're negotiating a package , not a salary . In other words , there is a set of things you 're negotiating for , and you can play games in that space to get most of what you need . Limiting yourself to salary negotiation is tricky because salaries are often the most constrained part of the package ( especially in public universities in the US ) , and the one the chair/dean has the least power to change . So remember that your success at the job depends on your ability to recruit students , procure resources and bootstrap your research program . Which means you need startup money to pay students , lab space and equipment money as needed , teaching relief if that helps you focus on research , and so on . Throw these all into the mix when you negotiate , so that if you give up something along one dimension , you can try to parlay that into a gain along a different dimension . Also understand who you 're really negotiating with , and what powers they really have to offer you things . This can be found out by talking with your supporters at the department ( you must have some , otherwise you would n't have an offer ) and also folks at other institutions .
A good-looking report will put me in the mindset that you took the assignment seriously , and aimed to turn in quality work . I think that counts for something , not nothing . That said , if a report is just that -- good looking , with little substance behind it -- I will see through the façade very quickly , and all those superficial niceties might even count against you . Assuming that 's not the case , though , if two people turn in equally good work , yet one is formatted much more professionally than the other , that might earn an extra point or two -- assuming I 'm grading with some level of subjectivity , and not merely following a strict rubric . Shame on me , though , if I let mere appearance carry much more weight than that . That all said , your classmates seem to be very shortsighted . Okay , maybe your extra effort will get you a 94 instead of a 93 . Or maybe you 'll just get a 93 , with nothing more than a mental note that I thought your report looked really good . However , what you do in my classroom might -- and perhaps should -- extend far beyond my class . Presumably , you 're in my class for an education , not merely for 3 or 4 credits . Get in the habit of turning in good work , and that might turn into something that translates into a valuable life skill . One more thought : what 's going to happen after you graduate , when all those folks from human resources ask you to include the names of three professors on your job applications ? One of them might well call me , and ask , " What do you remember about this guy ? " Perhaps I 'll answer , " Oh , I remember him . He always turned in exceptional work . " Those two sentences might prove to be worth far more than an extra point or two on an assignment . Incidentally , I had one student bring her term project into a job interview . They hired her , largely based on what they saw in that class project . Just a couple weeks ago , another student asked if my name could be listed as a reference . " I hope they call me , " I replied in my email . " I distinctly remember how your work always seemed to go above and beyond what everyone else was turning in . " Imagine how that will sound in the ear of a corporate recruiter who is sifting through a pile of job applications . It 's your call . It 's also your future .
Requirements vary widely from program to program and from institution to institution . Some programs require a doctoral candidate to publish in a peer-reviewed journal ( probably most programs would take issue if you did n't publish or present anything ) . Most programs ( or committees ) would n't let you graduate with a PhD unless you published at least once , and would expect at least twice . My general hunch is that a doctoral dissertation ( rarely called a " doctoral thesis " ) is generally several times longer . While a masters thesis might be 20-50 pages , dissertations are routinely 80-150 pages ... and sometimes way more ( this varies widely by discipline , by the academic culture of your institution , and by your committee ) . Some programs allow the doctoral candidate to use three publications , combined into a single manuscript , as his or her dissertation . Lastly , the doctoral degree is intended to show that the recipient can perform original research . Masters degrees have a wide variety of understandings or intents , from " the recipient passed our comprehensive exams " , to " the recipient performed an original research project and published it " . Whatever you 've done for your masters thesis , focus on research for your PhD . Learn what interesting questions are in your field and choose one to focus on . Read the background literature to learn how others have approached the problem . Work with your advisor and committee to figure out how you can contribute something new and useful to the field , and then do it . Publish your findings in a journal ; present your results and network with peers at conferences . Finally , write it all up in your dissertation , defend it , and graduate . That sums up getting a PhD . The rest are details . You may find <URL> useful .
Ink on vellum . Depending on the work place the author may have made their figures themselves or in some cases professionals were involved who would take a sketch and draw an ink original . the techniques were basically the same as for any technical drawing using templates for creating text . A lot of techniques went into making nice figures , sometimes including adhesive rasters to create shading effects etc. . A asic technique was also to produce originals is a larger size than final so that when reduced in size , small imperfections would basically dissappear in print .
end question
start question
Should I retract an article published in a disreputable journal ?
I do n't know of any journal that one could expect to accept " I do n't like your journal any more " as a legitimate reason for retraction : a good journal would probably just scoff at you , while a crappy or predatory journal is unlikely to meaningfully respond to any request for retraction , no matter how legitimate . Therefore , I do n't think you should try to retract it , but simply to drown out your early mistakes over time with subsequent good work . As for whether to leave it on your CV : If you have reason to believe that this journal is a sham that does not actually peer review , then I think that @NateEldredge is right : you can leave it off of your CV entirely or ( better ) , move it to a section on published non-peer-reviewed work , much as you would list an arXiv publication . If the journal is simply crappy , however , I think you 're stuck with it . You really did publish there , and no matter how crappy , it 's still an archived journal publication .
The two are entirely independent . The journal does not require you to make the software open source . It merely requires you to make it free for non-commercial use for at least two full years from the day of submission of the article . It however recommends that you make the source available , preferably via an open source license . But it states that it is even acceptable to simply provide the compiled binary to the editors . ( Presumably to verify that the software does what you report it to do . ) The requirement is only applied to a software if you wish to publish a paper describing a new software tool or a new implementation or algorithm . ( Which seems to be your case as you want to write about a new bioinformatics software . ) The OA publishing option is something else entirely . The default publishing format in the journal is subscriber pays . With payment of additional fees you can purchase the option to make your paper open access , but that is not a requirement . I note that the condition described in point 1 would be evaluated at the time of submission by the editorial board , whereas the possibility of publishing the article open access will not generally be discussed at all until after the paper is accepted .
For a public lecture , yes . You are inviting the audience to show their appreciation for the speaker and the effort it takes to address a public audience , and to acknowledge the opportunity afforded them to see and hear the speaker . In turn , when I first start speaking to a public audience -- regardless of whether I get a welcoming round of applause -- I always thank the audience for coming to my talk . The combination of welcoming applause and sincere appreciation towards the audience makes for a positive shared experience , right from the start . Things are different for non-public talks , such as at your department 's colloquia , or a workshop , or ( non-keynote ) conference speaker . Here , the vibe is that the talk is expected and , in some regards , a routine part of the job of an academic . Showing up and presenting is expected , rather than a treat , or something out of the ordinary .
Reading your background , it seems that everything about the work was correct except for a mistake in translating the algorithm from code to pseudocode . Moreover , you 've done your best at correcting the mistake . Mistakes happen in science , and especially when it comes to the dread pseudocode ( personally , that 's why I always include actual executable code whenever I can ) . From what you 've presented , I think you have every reason to be proud of this work and none to be ashamed . Talk about the work in your applications . Talk about the paper . Talk about the experience in getting it corrected . Anybody who you 'd actually want to work for will see all of these as strengths and not weaknesses .
I would take it as simply a polite way to decline your application . They no doubt really do get a lot of strong applications ( every decent program does ) , and in many cultures such as the US there is a tendency to " sugar-coat " bad news with compliments ( I do n't know if your application was in the US , but I believe this practice turns up elsewhere as well ) . You would actually probably get less praise if you got in -- after all , the acceptance is compliment enough .
There are no problems associated with you reviewing a paper again , regardless if it resubmitted to the same or a different journal . Since you have seen the paper earlier and know its earlier problems you can better judge how it has improved and to what extent it is now publishable . You should definitely let the editor know that you have been involved in the process of this paper earlier even if he/she has not indicated the paper has been rejected somewhere before . That information provides the editor with a better perspective of the development of the paper and can make the decision to accept or reject easier since the willingness or capability of the author ( s ) to improve the manuscript is set in perspective . You can always contact the editor and state that you are willing to take on the review but felt it was necessary to convey the information . I do not see it as necessary but it is of course a nice gesture .
To the best of my knowledge , there is no such rule . It would be problematic to put a figure in the first column ( which is tightly compressed between abstract and copyright blurb ) , but a figure at the top of the second column is fine . However , due to the way that document preparation is done for IEEE publications , it is highly unlikely that an author will end up with a figure on the first page unless they specifically choose to do so . The reason is that in the IEEE format ( both conference and journal ) , one rarely gets much beyond the introduction in the first page , and certainly never in the first column . IEEE papers are mostly prepared with LaTeX , and as such , if you use the normal figure placement , your figure will tend to end up at the top of the column after the column in which it is set and referenced in the source . Since it 's quite rare to have a figure at the beginning of a paper 's introduction , then it will be correspondingly rare to have a figure on the first page . Complementarily , an author who chooses to have a figure on the first page will typically need to move the figure significantly forward of its reference in the text in order for LaTeX to choose to place it at the top of the 2nd column . Most IEEE journals work directly from the author-submitted document rather than doing significant layout work by the journal , so if the author did n't put it on page 1 , nobody else is likely to either . Thus , we have the emergent phenomenon you 've noticed : because the defaults and tendencies in article production for IEEE make it unlikely that a figure will appear on the first page without author intervention , most papers have no figure on the first page . Personally , I like to intervene , because a figure on the first page really helps an article pop out to a reader and be more memorable and intelligible . I suggest that unless you have good reason to do otherwise , you do the same .
If the research was original and academic , then I would say keep it in there if it 's relevant to the role that you see yourself working in . If it was a team effort , make sure you cite it as such . Since it was n't officially published , I 'd suggest linking to it online ( and hosting it somewhere if it is n't already hosted by your academic institution ) . Of course , I 'm not really authoritative on this type of thing , but if I were evaluating prospective employees , I 'd love to be able to see relevant examples of their work even if they were n't formally published .
It would depend on the jurisdiction . In the US , you have a property right to the degree that you earn and pay for ( regardless of the ultimate source of funding -- the student has the responsibility to pay ) , and as long as you do n't violate the conditions for obtaining the degree ( various forms of dishonesty in admissions and satisfaction of the degree ) , improper actions after the fact do n't license depriving a person of what they have earned . In Europe , the legal basis may be different . Whereas in much of Europe state law governs revocation , in the US revocation is governed by university rules . In the case of Dutch psychologist Diederik Stapel , the thesis data had been destroyed so it was impossible to prove fraud in the thesis , and also impossible to disprove it ( Stapel short-circuited the university 's proceedings by returning his degree ) . It appears that there are , in The Netherlands and possibly other European nations , vows that you must take in order to receive the degree , to act honorably ( defined locally ) . " Not committing fraud in the future " is a likely candidate for such a vow .
When you cite an article it does not mean that your work stands on the cited article in its entirety but rather it might be a particular result , an interpretation or an interesting question someone else has come up with before you . Let look at it like this : you ( Y ) cite a finding ( f1 ) by a person/group in some paper ( P1 ) , who in turn cites another finding ( f2 ) some other person/group in some paper ( P2 ) . later turns out that something in P2 does not add up and the paper gets retracted . The interesting question is whether or not the mistake or error etc in P2 is related to your work . If : scientific grounds for f2 is still valid despite the error that causes the retraction , or your f1 is independent of f2 then you are essentially safe , since the reasons for retraction does not reflect on your work/findings . In other words , you have not built your work on erroneous foundation . That beings said , I can only assume that citing a retracted paper is n't particularly nice , and if you can avoid it ( if someone else has also mentioned that same finding without going through the retracted paper ) then it 's probably better . Hope this was n't all too convoluted . . I had to rewrite it a couple of times already :)
Legally , the style file at first only is the software which you use to generate your paper and thus there should not be any problems in most cases , for the same reasons that you do not need to ask Microsoft for permission each time you publish something generated with Word . I see three problem cases , however : If you use TeX , and ArXiv does not have the style file and thus you need to supply it , which would make it be published alongside your article . In this case you may be distributing a software that you may not distribute . Many style files are free to distribute though ( at least in my experience ) . The style file includes a logo or similar ( e.g. , Royal Society Publishing 's style file does this ) , which in turn may not have a license that allows you to distribute it . The style file makes your paper mention the journal 's name , which creates the false impression that your preprint is actually a publication of that journal . Will the journal get mad ? -- Of course you need to regard the journal 's copyright agreement ( which you accepted ) with respect to publishing preprints in general or on ArXiv in specific ( <URL> is a database that helps you to find this out ) . But if the journal allows you to publish a preprint content-wise , I do not see any reasons why using its style file would enrage it , given that the above problem cases do not apply . Some journals even allow you publishing the journal 's version of the paper on ArXiv , e.g. , the <URL> . Finally , a stylistical argument : If the journal has a single-column layout but your paper has no long formulas or something else that would make such a format a good idea , you may want to opt for a two-column layout for your preprint .
In order to answer this question , we need to define some magnitudes of errors . A small error does not affect the conclusions and if the manuscript was accepted as is could be fixed in the proof stage before the manuscript goes to press . A minor error does not affect the conclusions but requires too many changes to be made that it could not be fixed in the proof stage . A substantial error affects the conclusions and would require the manuscript to be re-reviewed . If you have found a substantial error , you need to contact the editor and request the manuscript be pulled from the review process . You do not want to waste the time of the editor and reviewers . A small error can either be ignored or reported to the editor if you think that the correction will help save the reviewers time . Minor errors are the real problem . There is no easy way to tell the editor/reviewer what is wrong , but an unclear manuscript is likely to get negative reviews . I would suggest contacting the editor and explaining and apologizing for the problem . The real question should be how did you find the error ? What are you doing looking at a manuscript after it has been submitted ?
I get the same emails as well . Things to consider when looking at a brand new journal : As Anonymous , Charles and JeffE commented , make sure it is not a scam and that the editorial board are well respected ( well-published ) academics in your field . Make absolutely certain that the journal caters to your exact research field - try and find , or ask , what their focus is . Find out about costs if any . If the journal is legitimate and relevant , then consider publishing a smaller paper first , publish your main papers in well established highly ranked and highly distributed journals ( especially if you are starting out in academia ) .
To the best of my understanding , the key reason why some conferences publish their proceedings as journal special issues is precisely to enable the papers to be listed as journal papers rather than conference papers . This is essentially a kludge to get around bureaucrats and people from fields with an " only journals count " prejudice . As such , I think that it 's entirely reasonable to list such papers in either the conference section or the journal section . The " technically-a-journal " form , however , typically has different citation information than the conference publication , so if you choose to list them in the journal section , be certain to list them with this alternate citation information , as reported by the journal archive site .
If you know your field , it is easy to know how reputable some journal is . You find papers in it by the best people in your field publishing the most important results there you are already familiar with . On the other hand if you do not know your field yet , I would advise you to get to know it at the glance at least first . Familiarise yourself with the most important and fundamental results and findings and the most influential authors . You should identify these authors quickly by seeing them in many various papers cited again and again by different researchers . Then look where these authors published the papers to find out what journals are likely to be more reliable than others . Moreover , if you know your field , you should be able to discern a value and validity of a paper quickly from the abstract .
I would suggest the following steps : Ask journal # 1 if the review process has started . If it has not yet started , ask if it can be kept on hold for a few days . Meanwhile send a pre-submission inquiry to journal # 2 . If journal # 2 seems positive about your paper , send a request to withdraw the paper from journal # 1 . Be honest about your reason for withdrawal , and add a word of appreciation for the editor 's cooperation and understanding . Submit to journal # 2 once the withdrawal is confirmed . If the review process has started , it would be advisable to let things be and not withdraw from journal # 1 . If your paper is rejected from journal # 2 , you could consider submitting it to another journal rather than going back to journal # 1 .
I do n't know of any journal that one could expect to accept " I do n't like your journal any more " as a legitimate reason for retraction : a good journal would probably just scoff at you , while a crappy or predatory journal is unlikely to meaningfully respond to any request for retraction , no matter how legitimate . Therefore , I do n't think you should try to retract it , but simply to drown out your early mistakes over time with subsequent good work . As for whether to leave it on your CV : If you have reason to believe that this journal is a sham that does not actually peer review , then I think that @NateEldredge is right : you can leave it off of your CV entirely or ( better ) , move it to a section on published non-peer-reviewed work , much as you would list an arXiv publication . If the journal is simply crappy , however , I think you 're stuck with it . You really did publish there , and no matter how crappy , it 's still an archived journal publication .
The change only appears trivial to you now that you know about it . Moreover , while the change may be simple , the validation of that change is not : I 'm sure there 's lots of experiments to run to verify your statement , and maybe some new analyses to be performed as well . To me , this sounds like a fine opportunity for a followup . If your paper was published in a conference , then the improved version can go into the " extended version " journal paper . If your paper was already published in a journal , this is a good time to follow up with a short conference paper . If you 're in a field that does n't like conferences , there will probably be journals that take " short papers " or " application notes " or some similar . Bottom line : one way or another , there should be a good place to put this not-as-trivial-as-you-think piece of work .
Mexican here !! We also have two surnames , and to be perfectly honest we do not mind if you use both or only one of our last names . People call me Dr Palafox and my former advisor ( Who is the head of the CS department ) Dr Benitez . We are talking people from all the spectrum of workers , from administrative and cleaning staff to general directors . So is perfectly fine to use only one last name . Actually is going to sound weird if you end up using both names , because we rarely do . Even the President is rarely called by his 2 last names , unless is a very specific situation .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
end question
start question
Are undergraduate journals a good choice for publishing papers ?
Do n't publish in weird journals Work to publish in the mainstream journals , despite their fickle biases and sometimes burdensome cost . Fields often have a pecking order of journals and the journal in which an article is published can change the perception of an article . Journals such as <URL> may be well-intentioned , but seem to provide a way for people to start worrying earlier and earlier about publishing . It is premature for you to worry about your publication profile . You 've already published one paper at 16 -- that 's great . You are ahead of the curve . Graduate programs look for undergraduates to have published . Colleges look for evidence of potential . In the two labs I 've worked in , the PI evaluates prospective high school students and undergraduates based on a letter of recommendations and a brief talk with the prospective student . Incremental publications in third tier journals may be a necessary part of the tenure slog , but you have the time now to just learn science and decide whether you want to pursue it as a career . Worrying about publications in high school is putting the cart before the horse .
No . The publisher does not and can not guarantee the correctness of the papers . Also the peer-review system is not perfect . That being said , even though a single paper might have some chance of being wrong , as studies are replicated , and follow up studies verify and extend the conclusions , the scientific community can build up stronger claims .
This is a historical anachronism . The fonts are chosen for the print version of the journal . For a print version , if you use a smaller font , you can squeeze more text onto the same page and print the same paper on fewer pages -- which saves money . So , for print publications , the small font size arguably makes sense . However , today print is less important and the digital format is more important , but journal requirements have n't caught up to this fact . For instance , in computer science , the ACM is a notorious offender : they require papers to use 9pt fonts , which are very small .
This is quite common in American universities , and there are probably thousands of start-ups that have arisen out of university-based research . The question of financing such a venture is of course a challenging one to answer , but with the right contacts , is usually available . I can think of at least four or five such start-ups in the department I attended for graduate school , and I imagine there are several more in the planning stages . As for how enthusiastic industry and VC 's are , well , I think it depends entirely on the strength of the idea , and how " market-ready " the concept is . The sooner it 's ready to go , the more enthusiastically people will flock to it .
The tools you state are prototypes developed by the authors . They may not always have enough rank to be easily Googled , so the best place to search for them would be the respective institution sites and author sites . For instance , MAPO can be found in the corresponding author <URL> ( although you might need his consent to access it ) . MICA is available <URL> with copyright by Carnegie Mellon University . If that does n't work , the best thing to do would be to mail the corresponding author requesting the required access to the software .
People do things for a variety of reasons . Even writing a paper for smaller workshops has some benefits for everyone ( from a PHD student to a professor ) Good reason for the affiliation to cover expenses for the suggested trip . Usually CS workshops are co-located with important conferences and even a workshop paper may cover your expenses ( not every time if you continuously abuse the system ) to actually watch the entire conference . Workshops have limited attendance but may still be organized by reputable professors / scientists close to your area of interest . So , they are very good for networking . In a major conference , it is easier to get " lost " inside the many participants . Practise makes better . If you write 5 papers ( even when some of them were for a workshop ) writing your 6th paper is going to be easier , instead of trying to write your " seminal " paper . Reviewers have the " strange " habit of sometimes rejecting your paper . In this case , sending your paper to a smaller workshop ( after rejection in 1-2 major conferences ) where it gets accepted , lessens the sense of rejection and still " patents " your results on which you can expand later . Workshops sometimes have a " best paper award " which may even lead to journal publication , when the same paper might not had a chance in a bigger conference . In workshops the competition is smaller ( usually 10-15 accepted papers ) , so you have something like 5-8 % chance for something like that . Sometimes when you work on a specific project you might discover something that although is not good enough for a major conference or later expansion , is still a compact solid idea that may help others . So , a good workshop paper may disseminate this idea to a larger audience . Unfortunately , although quality should beat quantity , this is not the usual case . In some research projects , grants applications it is better to state that " A is the author of more than 50 scientific papers with an h-index of ... " than " B is the author of 2 papers " . Same when you look at the Google Scholar / DBLP record of an author . It is better to see 50 papers ( which among them are 10 really seminal papers ) instead of just 10 perfect papers that usually leave a gap in the author 's bibliography ( blank years ) . In this sense , even workshop papers serve their purpose if you treat them as professionally as the rest of your papers ( they are well written and still scientifically solid and correct ) .
No . Publishing a thesis this way has no academic value whatsoever . ( I.e. , it will lead to no prestige , respectability , credit , etc. . For academic purposes , it will not count as a published book , except for interfering with other forms of publication . ) LAP 's business model seems to be collecting as many theses and other unpublished academic documents as they can and then selling printed copies . I do n't see much value to this , but it could be harmless if you do not plan to publish the thesis in any other form . If you like the idea of seeing your thesis for sale on amazon.com , then you should investigate other options as well and choose whatever seems like the best deal . However , it 's unlikely that you 'll make any money from this , and certainly no more than a small amount , so you 'll be contributing more to the academic community if you make the thesis available for free online . See also <URL> for a detailed account of LAP 's business practices .
Most American computer science conference papers are precisely 10 pages long , because most ACM conferences have a strict 10-page limit on proceedings papers . ( ACM is the Association for Computing Machinery , the primary professional society for computer science . )
The advantages are that you get to stake a claim to some sense of ownership of the work ; it 's a way of inviting feedback and collaboration from others by showcasing your work in progress ; and it 's a quicker way to publish your work than submitting to a journal or conference . So when do you publish your work as a working paper ? When the following conditions are met : You 've done some work . And some combination of : you want feedback on it from a wider group than your immediate colleagues ; you want to showcase your work to get new collaborators , new funding , or improved career prospects you want to publicly stake a claim to the work you 've done And some combination of : the follow-up work is something that you 've already got sufficiently far advanced that it is very unlikely that you will get scooped by your competitors ; you 're not bothered about being first to publish the follow-up work yourself . And publishing your work in a working paper wo n't prevent it from appearing ( possibly in modified form ) in a journal .
Well someone 's got to pay . If it 's the reader , then howls go up about Open Access . So that leaves the authors . The costs of publishing A high-quality journal needs high-quality editors . An awful lot of literature still gets printed and distributed around the world and that 's expensive . Remember , reading this , we are the ones who are most active online , and so our paper-reading habits are much more likely to be skewed towards predominantly ( or even exclusively ) online access , so are not fully representative . High-quality journals often also get involved in conference sponsorship , publicity , and so on . The peer-reviews get co-ordinated ; there is often some vetting of suitable reviewers ; their responses need to be interpreted correctly ; special issues get co-ordinated ; someone ensures a good balance of articles covering the journal 's remit . So , there 's a lot of costs , and someone 's got to cover them . If we want to publish at almost-zero overheads , we write a blog . A journal is much much more than a blog - and some of the things that make it much more than a blog , cost money . Not necessarily an efficient market That 's not to say that in certain sectors , there is n't a market failure : some sectors do have suspiciously high profit margins . And market regulators should be looking at removing barriers to entry . Those barriers certainly are n't insurmountable , as notable new scientific publishers have emerged recently , with new business models : <URL> being an obvious example , founded in 2000 to support Open Access , and <URL> ; and now a serious player , using the author-pays model . Author beware There are also plenty of scammers using the author-pays model . So be careful out there . Talk to colleagues about who 's reputable and who 's not . Read the journals . And there are lists online of the disreputable publishers . Read more about that on this site at <URL>
It 's not a myth . There are/have been some journals that pay peer reviewers . For example : The <URL> used to pay $ 5 per review , until some reviewers complained that " if that was the price that this eminent journal placed on their opinion , the New England Journal of Medicine should seek referees elsewhere " The <URL> reportedly pays for peer review " sometimes " Reviewers for journals published by the <URL> earn <URL> for each " timely " review . <URL> ( zbMATH ) pays 2.56 EUR per review , although this is for post-publication reviews that are then published . The <URL> offers " a review model in which selected peer reviewers may be paid to deliver high-quality and speedy peer-review reports " ( if authors pay an extra fee for the fast-track option ) The <URL> has offered an honorarium of $ 100 for each " timely " review <URL> pays its peer reviewers an honorarium of unspecified amount , supposedly " to motivate rigorous peer review " The <URL> ( which is on <URL> of allegedly predatory open-access journals and publishers ) pays reviewers for its journals $ 60 - $ 100 per review Whether the reviewer being paid , has more obligations to provide thorough in depth review is true or not is entirely uncertain , though .
No University has <URL> to spend on subscription fees for all existing paywalled research articles ( e.g. , <URL> ) . As a result , some of their faculty and student resort to free alternatives SciHub/LibGen/emailing colleagues / <URL> . Many universities located in developing countries <URL> . If you need a particular name , <URL> : When he needs new books to teach one of his courses , Professor Ibrahim Abdullah orders at least two from abroad : one for himself , one to give to the university library . If he needs scholarly articles , he writes to his friends overseas and asks them to send copies , since the university can not afford journal subscriptions . I 'm not sure if paying for paywalls is the rule or the exception amongst universities , statistics welcome . Some <URL> <URL> showing the location of Sci-Hub users ( at least the location of the machine that makes the final request ) : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I also have a very common name ( usually quoted along the lines of " Smith , J. " ) and despite the fact that I have worked and published with two different institutions there has never been a problem assigning all my papers to me personally ( ORCID and other system let you take your institution ( s ) into account ) . As long as there is n't a person with the same first and last name in your institution ( and even then , it usually a couple of clicks to rectify the situation and I am speaking of someone who had to contend with a Joan/John Smith situation ) . My university makes all researchers from post doc onwards keep a list of their publications on their official university homepage , so even google will associate my publications correctly . So if you come across a paper from my old affiliation you can get my current contact data from this . And honestly most subfields are specialised enough that people roughly know that John Smith at institution A is working on a certain topic ( because that 's what your group does ) and John Smith at institution B will probably not have published a particular paper . If people want to talk to your about your results , they will find you , even with a common name .
For me it seems that the reasons are two : the belief that code is only a tool , a particular implementation being secondary to the idea or algorithm , the historical residue ( it was unpractical to print a lot of pages ; especially as no-one could copy-paste it ) . Additionally : many scientist seems to be afraid to show their code in public , as they are aware of its poor quality ( see also <URL> ) , so they do n't want to risk reputation ( for both quality and catching possible errors ) . Moreover , things related to current incentives in academia ( where publications , not code , are related to one 's career possibilities ) : sharing code may mean risk of being scooped ( instead of milking the same code for years ) , cleaning up code takes time , which can be used for writing another publications . Do people have to submit their code privately to the reviewers at least , so that they can reproduce the experiment if possible . Typically - not . If the code is not made public , almost for sure no reviewer have checked its existence ; much less - correctness . However , many scientists are starting to notice the problem ( and they see how open source culture flourishes ) . So , there are new initiatives addressing such issue , like <URL> : Software is a cornerstone of science . Without software , twenty-first century science would be impossible . Without better software , science can not progress . Or e.g. <URL> . Try to search for reproducible research or look at things such as <URL> and this intro to <URL> , or read about <URL> . And <URL> .
PhD admission committees look for evidence of your ability to successfully complete the PhD program . Published papers can be a big hint that the answer is " yes " . Unless it can be argued that the journal is a predatory one , I would suggest mentioning the published paper in your application if you think that the paper is of good quality . Even when the journal is not so well known ( but has good standards ) , it shows that you can perform the type of work expected from you if they choose to accept you .
I 've worked on a few method development projects and I 'm of the opinion that it is a good idea particularly if the author is well-known and well-liked ( if they are a dick or you do n't like them , that 's a different story ) . The obvious reason why is because when they happened to see your paper going out for review which claims a " massive improvement " over previous methods , they are n't going to get upset at you and pull strings to make your life miserable . Furthermore , they might have insight whether or not the new method is useful or merely enhancing a particular error which makes it look good . The only instance where sharing the paper might be a bad idea is if they happened to be working on a similar improvement . Receiving the paper may motivate them to scoop you .
There are very few circumstances under which I think it 's a bad idea for undergraduates to write research papers . These primarily have to do with the quality of the journal : so long as it is a reputable , peer-reviewed journal , I would n't be too concerned with the " strength " of the work . The reason is that publishing while an undergraduate -- particularly as a primary author -- demonstrates that you have already started to learn the basics of how to do research in your field . This means that you 're less of an " unknown " quantity , and therefore less of a risk for a department reviewing your application . If you do n't publish the research , then there 's no tangible proof , and then you need to rely on your research supervisor to make that point in a letter of recommendation . ( But then the question becomes : " if she could have written a paper , why did n't she ? " ) As for the exceptions above , so long as you do n't publish in " vanity " journals ( those which will publish basically anything , so long as people pay the appropriate publication " fees " ) , you should be fine .
In general , an editor will choose to issue a retraction when misbehavior or errors undermine the " core " of a paper ( authors may request a retraction , but ultimately it is generally the editor who decides ) . An erratum or correction , on the other hand , is for when there is a problem that does n't change the " core " of the paper . Different editors will draw the boundary differently , and some things are in a grey area . In this case , it looks like reuse of background material ( a grey area on self-plagiarism ) shaded over into plagiarism from another closely related piece . In most cases plagiarism , even of a background section , would be enough for a paper to be retracted due to the issue of dishonesty , which cases doubt on everything else in the paper . In this case , however , it appears that given the close relationships between the authors and the papers , the editor judged it less a matter of theft than of sloppiness , and opted for the lesser correction .
I have had some pretty good success advising undergrads by : Making sure that the problem is extremely well-defined . That is , do n't throw them into the water and see if they swim . Think a lot about what the expected outcome will be , and what the foreseeable steps , challenges and problems will be . Yes , this is a lot of work and means that you could ( almost ) " do the work yourself " in the same time , but for undergrads you can typically not yet expect that you can just drop them a research question and see them run with it . Have regular meetings . Make sure that there is progress , and if there is n't , make sure that you know what the blocking issues are . Do n't expect them to necessarily come to you first with any issues . In my experience , undergrads often are a bit shy about asking for help , and sometimes get stuck on ( for you ) relatively easy problems unnecessarily . Make sure that you would be able to do the project yourself given enough time . I know that this is somewhat controversial , but for grad students , I am perfectly happy to accept projects where I myself would n't know how to do every part myself . That is , I expect a grad student to be able to solve her/his own problems . For undergrads , I do not do this . I want to be able to help undergrads in a meaningful way if they get stuck , technically . Conversely , make sure that the work is not just random grunt work . In my experience , the best way to make sure that the undergrad research project is not interesting for the student is by letting them do something that everybody else either considers unimportant or terribly tedious to do . Undergrads are not yet experienced , but they are still colleagues and not some sort of scientific minions . Somewhat related : make sure that you are excited about the project , or at the very least be able to convincingly pretend that you are . Again , having the feeling that nobody cares about their project is a surefire way to make for a terrible research experience . Integrate the undergrads into the lab . When there are talks , the undergrads are invited ( i.e. , expected to come ) . When the grad students are expected to regularly speak in the internal seminar , the undergrads need to do this as well . If there is a regular lab beer night , the undergrads are invited as well . If the lab usually goes to lunch together , the undergrads are asked to come along . You get the idea . If at all possible , give them a fixed work place in the lab , and require them to be there at least some percent of the time . To summarize , the best undergrad projects in my lab always worked on a well-defined project , which was still an integral part of the research agenda for the lab that others were enthusiastic about . On concrete example from my research : some members of my lab are currently working on benchmarking compute cloud providers . That typically means hacking up some automation scripts , deploying benchmarks , gathering some data , and analysing the results . This is rather tedious and error-prone work . Hence , I got a computer science bachelor student to build a web-based platform , which students could use to define , schedule and execute benchmarks using a relatively simple DSL ( domain-specific language ) . The platform the student built technically was n't terribly complex , but the solution worked well , tackled a common community problem , and most importantly saved multiple grad students a ton of time . We also published the tool as open source software and wrote a small paper about it , allowing to student to go to a conference to another continent . During the conference , a number of professors asked the student for details on his tool , and expressed interest to also use it for their research .
It depends on the type of publication , I would say . It would not be typical for journal or conference publications to have prefaces since dead trees are at a premium and long prefaces are not useful technical material . It is common for journal and conference publications to have a short " Acknowledgements " note at the end of the paper ( just before the bibliography ) , or linked as a footnote from the title . This note is typically for acknowledging funding sources of the authors , as well as people who contributed informally to the paper ( but are not co-authors ) . Sometimes I like to thank ( even anonymous ) reviewers if their feedback was useful . However , these notes are concise : they are not prefaces where you would discuss , for example , the invaluable contribution of your cat or somesuch . For books , monographs , etc. , prefaces are fair game . But do consider what you put in there . It is often the first thing a reader will read .
end question
start question
Path to a good grad school in math during undergrad ?
Here are my suggestions , having just finished a year of graduate school in math . It 's therefore mostly anecdotal and should be taken lightly ! REUs : Try to do as many as you can ! You get to meet other people who like math , learn new stuff , practice struggling with research , travel a bit , and get some cash to boot . They also , of course , look good on applications . Publications : I do n't personally have any publications . I wrote a few papers during my REUs and projects , but they were only published on the REU websites . So they 're not necessary to get in . However , I did have a great deal of trouble getting acceptances . Maybe a publication would have helped , but I think it 's very rare for an undergraduate to actually publish a paper . Graduate Courses : I took several of these as an undergraduate . I enjoyed them , but realize now that I should have taken them a little more seriously ! I 've forgotten a great deal of what I saw in them . However , I have noticed that I 'm quite strong in the area I took graduate courses in compared to my peers . So they definitely give you an edge ! However , do n't become too obsessed with loading up with graduate courses . Three of them is quite a lot of work , if you give them justice . Since most graduate courses are graded very lightly , you can make high marks in them without putting forth as much effort as you would in an undergraduate course ! ( At least , this was how it worked at my undergraduate institution . ) That said , keep in mind that some of your time in college should be spent having fun , too . Do n't become a math robot just yet ! You have time for that in grad school . :) Reading Textbooks : The fact you 're already reading the " core " undergraduate books before even entering the university puts you far , far ahead of the curve . Many people wo n't learn those things until sophomore or junior year . I certainly did n't . Make sure you 're doing the bulk of the exercises in those books , especially Rudin . Try to prove statements you come across without looking at their proofs . I feel that this is where most of the learning happens . You can easily read things and not understand them , so just watch out ! Other than that , finish those books and then you should be set to take the advanced undergraduate/first year graduate courses at your institution . The Math Subject GRE : I hate this thing and did very poorly on it . You 'll blow the math portion of the general GRE out of the water . It 's easy stuff for any math major . However , if you do n't spend a little time reviewing , you can really mess up the subject test , since it 's timed and covers things you might not have thought about for several years . The topics are almost completely disjoint from what a student taking graduate courses has been doing . Look at a few practice tests , identify what sorts of questions are asked , and train yourself to quickly answer such questions . Speed is key . You do n't want the subject GRE to be a weak point on your application , especially since it 's an easily prevented weak point . So , do REUs , take graduate courses , do n't sweat not having publications ( but if you can get some do ) , and study for the subject GRE !
Here are my suggestions , having just finished a year of graduate school in math . It 's therefore mostly anecdotal and should be taken lightly ! REUs : Try to do as many as you can ! You get to meet other people who like math , learn new stuff , practice struggling with research , travel a bit , and get some cash to boot . They also , of course , look good on applications . Publications : I do n't personally have any publications . I wrote a few papers during my REUs and projects , but they were only published on the REU websites . So they 're not necessary to get in . However , I did have a great deal of trouble getting acceptances . Maybe a publication would have helped , but I think it 's very rare for an undergraduate to actually publish a paper . Graduate Courses : I took several of these as an undergraduate . I enjoyed them , but realize now that I should have taken them a little more seriously ! I 've forgotten a great deal of what I saw in them . However , I have noticed that I 'm quite strong in the area I took graduate courses in compared to my peers . So they definitely give you an edge ! However , do n't become too obsessed with loading up with graduate courses . Three of them is quite a lot of work , if you give them justice . Since most graduate courses are graded very lightly , you can make high marks in them without putting forth as much effort as you would in an undergraduate course ! ( At least , this was how it worked at my undergraduate institution . ) That said , keep in mind that some of your time in college should be spent having fun , too . Do n't become a math robot just yet ! You have time for that in grad school . :) Reading Textbooks : The fact you 're already reading the " core " undergraduate books before even entering the university puts you far , far ahead of the curve . Many people wo n't learn those things until sophomore or junior year . I certainly did n't . Make sure you 're doing the bulk of the exercises in those books , especially Rudin . Try to prove statements you come across without looking at their proofs . I feel that this is where most of the learning happens . You can easily read things and not understand them , so just watch out ! Other than that , finish those books and then you should be set to take the advanced undergraduate/first year graduate courses at your institution . The Math Subject GRE : I hate this thing and did very poorly on it . You 'll blow the math portion of the general GRE out of the water . It 's easy stuff for any math major . However , if you do n't spend a little time reviewing , you can really mess up the subject test , since it 's timed and covers things you might not have thought about for several years . The topics are almost completely disjoint from what a student taking graduate courses has been doing . Look at a few practice tests , identify what sorts of questions are asked , and train yourself to quickly answer such questions . Speed is key . You do n't want the subject GRE to be a weak point on your application , especially since it 's an easily prevented weak point . So , do REUs , take graduate courses , do n't sweat not having publications ( but if you can get some do ) , and study for the subject GRE !
end question
start question
How common is it to have a demo at a doctoral thesis defence session ?
I 've seen a couple of PhD defenses with demos ( in engineering/computer science ) . It 's not common because many PhD theses do n't naturally require a demo due to their subject , or because a demo would be logistically difficult ( e.g. requires special equipment that ca n't be brought to the room where the defense will take place , or takes too long given the time allotted for the defense ) . Also , live demonstrations are somewhat prone to failure , and a PhD defense is not a good time for a failed demo :) But if a major contribution of the thesis happens to be something demonstrable , and it 's not too difficult logistically , then a demo can definitely enhance a defense . ( If logistics are the issue , a short video of the demo can also enhance a defense . )
How common is it to inadvertently publish a finding that was already discovered ? Far more common than anyone realizes or wants to admit . <URL> states that No scientific discovery is named after its original discoverer . ( Stigler 's law was proposed in this precise form in 1980 by Stephen Stigler , who self-referentially attributed it to Richard Merton , but of course similar statements were made earlier by many others , including Stigler 's own father . ) I would n't go as far as claiming that every scientific discovery is misattributed , but there are hundreds of examples . Off the top of my head : Fibonacci numbers , Pascal 's triangle , Gaussian elimination , Euler 's formula ( both of them ! ) , Voronoi diagrams , Markov 's inequality , Chebyshev 's inequality , Dijkstra 's algorithm for shortest paths , Prim 's algorithm for minimum spanning trees , the Cooley-Tukey FFT algorithm , the Gale-Shapley stable matching algorithm ( for which Shapley recently won the Nobel Prize in economics ) , ... What do you when you happen to find yourself in this situation ? Be brutally honest , both with yourself and with the scientific community . If your work has already been published , post a reference to the prior art in your web page listing your publications . ( You do have a web page listing your publications , do n't you ? ) If possible , publish an addendum to your paper . Email anyone who has cited your paper already , giving them the earlier reference . When asked to review papers that cite your paper , include the earlier reference in your report . Become a walking advertisement for the earlier work . If your work has n't already been published , try to figure out which parts of your work have actually been done before . Some of your results will appear verbatim in the earlier work , so you ca n't take credit for them . Some of your results will be easy corollaries of the earlier work , so you still ca n't take credit for them . But perhaps some of your results will take the old work in a new nontrivial direction . Build on that . Also , if your results were previously known in a different field , there may be some value in bringing those results to the attention of your research community . Should you just scrap your work if your methods are too similar to someone else 's ? Of course not ! Now you have evidence that your methods actually work ! Push them further !
Yes , you should . Whether this is common depends very much on the conference . The last time I was at a conference , I was invited out of the blue by someone I did n't know to chair a session , in a <URL> and very informal e-mail as if it was coming from a long time friend in a hurry . This was less than a year after I obtained my PhD . A PhD student in our research group did the same . All it means , really , is that you sit on a chair in front of the room , make sure the presentations are on the presentation computer , announce the speakers , etc. . You will get detailed instructions . Unless you mess up ( and why would you ? ) , you really have nothing to lose .
This reasoning is Wrong and Bad in several ways . First , computing " mean impact factor " for a person or group is insane and should be resisted at all costs . Even amongst IF-crazy groups , the metric is generally how many high-IF publications have been obtained ( ignoring low-IF publications ) , not the fraction of high-IF publications . Second , even if you 're going to commit yourself to such insanity , the reasonable mathematical interpretation of " no impact factor " is " IF = 0 " , not " omit from data . " Thus , if you 're using this crazy statistic , it should be worse to publish in a no-IF venue . Finally , a journal with no IF generally falls into one of two categories : either it is good but very new ( or just not yet covered by ISI ) , in which case it will likely have an IF in a couple of years and the strategy will be undone , or else is it complete trash and likely predatory , in which case it will be a worse stain on your record than a moderate-IF publication , even amongst the most IF-crazy communities . My only possible conclusions are that either : your supervisor is seriously distorted in their thinking , or your supervisor is lying to you out of embarrassment to cover the fact that they published ( intentionally or accidentally ) in a trash/predatory journal .
I would n't find it okay if someone would come to my house because of that . Work and personal life should be separate and it would be inappropriate to visit the supervisor there . Does he not have an office ? If nobody can tell you where to find him , then you should call him or write an email and ask for an appointment .
If she has reviewed for these journals , then she has , regardless of who asked her to do it , and she can certainly put it on her CV ( it 's accurate and she can back it up ) . One caveat would be if she wrote the reviews but they were submitted under her boss 's name ( with the journals ' agreement ) - in that case , it would be important for her to make clear that she was doing the reviews in lieu of her boss , and was n't asked to do them in her own right . In other words , she certainly has the reviewing experience , but was asked because of her boss 's expertise in the field and not her own ( even if she may have that expertise as well ) .
No . The nice thing about most academic departments is that the <URL> is fairly high such that if an individual PI is incapacitated , there is generally enough slack in the system to compensate . Most funding bodies allow for contingencies . They understand that things happen and that the funding often affects people other than the PI . In the case of the death of a PI , the funder would likely allow for a change in PI to take place . If there is not a single PI who has the required administrative and scientific experiences , co-PIs can be appointed ( e.g. , someone who has managed grants before and a post-doc who understands the research ) . Experiments being run by PhD students , post docs , and RAs , would likely continue unchanged . Experiments being run directly by the PI would probably cease immediately unless there were ethical concerns ( think a drug trial ) . In these cases there is probably someone else involved or a contingency plan in place . Supervision of PhD students would likely be covered by someone else on the thesis committee . Teaching and committee responsibilities would simply be reassigned . Immediate teaching duties will often be given to a post doc or graduate student .
As a faculty member , I try to respond to all prospective students but many times the questions are too vague , tautological , or impossible to answer : Will I get in ? Impossible to answer . Will you work with me if I get in ? Tautological . If you are in my field of study and you get in , it 's likely because I want to work with you . But I do n't want to say yes because that may be misread as saying that we will accept you . What are the strengths and weaknesses of your program ? Not easily answerable , self-serving if I deem my own area strong and likely to insult faculty in the areas I deemed week . Tell me more about your research . Too open ended . My CV is online . I do n't mean to sound harsh but questions that can be easily answered are the most likely to get responses . Faculty do welcome e-mails from prospective students , especially those in our fields . When you get 150 + applications , it might be easy to miss someone in your specific area , so a personal message saying that you are applying is always welcome ( especially early in the semester -- Sept or Oct -- before things get crazy ) . Questions that are n't answerable on our website are also welcome ( for example , not all department websites list which students are associated with which faculty ; asking about our team members in those cases is welcome ) . If you pique our interest ( and we have the time ) , we may ask for further info from you -- for example , a paper you wrote or other writing sample . While I try to send a simple " thanks " ack message to these responses , I may be asking for something in November that I wo n't look at seriously until February with the other application material . So do n't take the lack or brevity of acknowledgement to mean anything significant . Note that we may not want to send an e-mail prematurely closing down discussion as we may feel that this is rude to an applicant who may have more questions . So we are in essentially a typical asynchronous communication hang condition . That being said , I do often wish that I could respond in http status codes :
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
In general sabbatical means something different for academic staff and support staff . See for example this <URL> . <URL> does not appear to offer a paid sabbatical for non-academic staff , but does offer an unpaid sabbatical : Long term leaves of at least three months and up to one year are available to any employee with five or more years of prior service to the University . Such leave will not be unreasonably denied . This type of leave is intended to give employees the opportunity to explore or expand interests related or unrelated to their present work at the University with the assumption that they will return to employment at the University <URL> does not appear to offer a paid sabbatical for non-academic staff and there rules for unpaid leave are more rigid than Harvard . Similarly , <URL> only offers an unpaid sabbatical for non-academic staff . All non-academic staff appear eligible , but it can only be up to 3 months in duration . Based on this non random sampling , I would conclude that paid sabbatical for non-academic staff is rare , if not non-existent , while unpaid sabbatical would be quite common .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
This is the structure that worked for me and number of my friends throughout western European universities : Title : A title that reflects your contributions/publications . Table of contents ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ABBREVIATIONS Abstract INTRODUCTION Note on Introduction : Most important of all is to highlight what you want to answer in your research . Also the problem/motivation should be discussed here . Paper1 ... PaperN Note On Paper-Based Chapters : The order of them are very important . Order them based on the content not the year of the publication . Evaluation : In this chapter put both the discussion and results . Try to figure out the benefits and shortcomings of your research . CONCLUSIONS and Future Work : conclude based on your contribution and highlight the future work . REFERENCES Note : Not so many students take time on organizing their references ' style . Most of them just copy/paste the Bibtex code and do n't look if all their references obey the same style rules . ANNEXES
I 'll try to give a general answer from a non-CS perspective . tl ; dr : yes , there are errors out there . A lot of errors , clerical and not , even in oft-cited papers and books , from any field . It 's inevitable : though they do their best to avoid errors , authors are human after all , and reviewers are humans too ( I know , you never find a damn robot when you need one ) . Thus , whenever you read a paper , maintain a critical thinking . EXAMPLES I 'll start the too long section with an anecdote . When I was working at my master 's thesis , some twenty years ago , I needed a result published in a much cited paper from a renowned author in the field of electromagnetics . At the time , ( almost ) young and inexperienced , I thought that papers were always absolutely right , especially when written by recognized authorities . To practice the technique of the paper , I decided to rederive the results : after a week spent redoing the calculations over and over again , I could n't find the same final equation . I was able to discover the correct equation - the one I was finding - in a book published later by the same author . Indeed , it was a clerical error that absolutely did n't change anything in the paper , but it was annoying and taught me an important lesson : papers and books contain errors . And , of course , I later published papers with mistakes in equations ( not for revenge ! ) [ * ] . After that first experience , I 've discovered that you can find more fundamental errors , even in well known books and papers . I 'll give you here a few examples , taken from different fields , to underline how broad the phenomenon is ( in bold , the mistaken claim ; within parentheses , the field ) : ( Classical mechanics ) In Newtonian mechanics , the correct equation of motion in case of variable mass is F = dp/dt . This statement can be found in many classical books about newtonian mechanics , but it is plainly wrong , because that equation , when the mass is variable , is not invariant under Galilean transformations as it is expected in Newtonian mechanics ( actually , the concept of variable mass in Newtonian mechanics can be misleading if not properly handled ) . For a deeper discussion see , e.g. , <URL> , <URL> and Spivak 's book Physics for Mathematicians , Mechanics I . As a curiosity , that wrong equation is used by <URL> in <URL> as an example to introduce the memristor . ( Circuit analysis ) Superposition ca n't be applied directly to controlled sources . It was just a few years ago when I came across this statement for the first time , and I was stunned : hey , I 've applied superposition to controlled sources since I was in high school , and I 've always get the right result . How it possibly ca n't be used ? In fact , it can be applied , the important thing is to apply it correctly , but there are really many professors ( I have several examples from Italy and US ) who do n't understand this point and fail to notice that the proofs of several theorems in circuit analysis are actually based on the applicability of superposition to controlled sources . For more on this , see e.g. <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . ( Thermodynamics ) The Seebeck effect is a consequence of the contact potential . This false statement can be frequently read in technical books and application notes about thermocouples . [ * ] Update 31/08/2015 : apropos of my own errors , a couple of weeks after having written this answer I discovered an error in an equation of a published conference paper which I co-authored . A fraction that should have been something like - A/B became B/A . Hey -- I told one of the other authors -- how could we possibly have written this ? And how did it get past the reviewers ? The fact is , that that equation was associated to a simple , well-known , example given in the introduction , an example so simple that probably neither us authors nor the reviewers gave a second look at the equation ( of course , how can anyone write this wrongly ? ) . I feel that many clerical errors like this one happen because of last-minute changes to notation : you have almost finished the paper and you realize that you could have employed a better notation ... so , let 's change it on the fly ! And here is where certain errors sneak-in . Avoid last-minute changes , if you can .
Universities love to add bureaucratic layers and it is quite common for a university ( or schools within universities ) to carry out strategic planning to identify research priorities . A quick search reveals <URL> is to " Seize rapidly expanding opportunities in biomedical research to increase human well-being " and identifies human genetics , therapeutic discovery , neuroscience , bioengineering , immunology and microbial sciences , stem cell and regenerative biology , and systems biology as key areas that have the potential to connect fundamental science with clinical applications . <URL> includes a an " emphasis on interdisciplinary research and graduate education in order to expand our leadership in important fields and the collaborative atmosphere across our campuses . " They are <URL> Data Science , Engineering Biology , Global Health , Infectious Diseases , Neuroscience , Photonics , and Urban Health . <URL> of Cultures and Communication , Digital Futures , Health and Wellbeing , Sustainable Societies , and Transformative Technologies
My strong advice is a clear NO ! There are several reasons : The journal might contact other reviewers , not the ones you suggested . Possible conflict of interest , even if you do n't send your paper with the review request The reviewing process is a business between the editor and the reviewer . It is specially designed to enhance the quality of the accepted papers ( Blind , double blind reviews , etc ) . Once you contact the reviewers , any chance of a blind review goes up in smoke . If the potential reviewer that you contact , is not selected by the journal he/she might feel offended . So , in a word : NO
Absolutely you can add a coauthor in revision , if there is good reason for doing so : in fact , I have recently done so myself on a paper where revision involved some new experiments with the aid of a colleague not previously involved . Most journals that I know consider authorship changes routine and even explicitly support such changes by asking you to review and , if necessary , modify author lists as part of submitting a revision through their system .
I 'm going to disagree with Oswald . In my experience , undergraduate students do not often prove new things in pure math . I would n't even say master 's theses often contain new results . There are a few main reasons for this . Firstly , pure mathematics operates at a level that is not very accessible for most undergraduates , even those doing research . Undergraduates doing research are often well out of their depth and holding on for dear life . This can mostly be attributed to just not having enough time to get up to speed with what is considered modern mathematics . Most courses in mathematics at the undergraduate level are about math from 50-100 years ago ( if not older ) . Secondly , undergraduates do not often have the mathematical experience to know what the right plan of attack is when faced with an abstract and new problem and they may not know how to check their work thoroughly to make sure there are no major oversights or blunders . A lot of mathematics involves lateral thinking and it takes a lot of time to build those connections . The hardest part of a pure math PhD ( in my opinion ) is learning how to attack a problem no one has considered before . Standard techniques that others used may not be useful at all to you for one reason or another . An undergraduate wo n't have the creativity to navigate this kind of issue because the kind of creativity that is needed comes with a lot of experience . Even when an undergraduate student thinks they 've proved something , the nuances of their argument likely will not be apparent to them . ( This is especially true when it comes to functional analytic/measure theoretic arguments - the devil is in the details . ) Thus a proposed proof may not even be close to being right . Lastly , not many undergraduates in pure math do research because the gap they have to overcome between coursework and modern mathematics is pretty substantial . Those that make contributions in pure math are those that are very , very talented and have very thorough backgrounds ( backgrounds that rival master 's / PhD students ) . Undergraduates in pure math are not expected to make contributions . That is not what research is about for them . Introducing an undergraduate to research serves a couple of different purposes : it introduces them to more advanced topics and it gives them a taste of what research is like so that they can make an informed decision about whether or not graduate school is right for them . As such , the theses are more like surveys of a specialized topic in mathematics . There is a lot of independent learning involved and there may be some unique examples , insights , and connections contained therein . They may not be presenting " original " work , but poster sessions are there to present what they 've learned regardless of whether or not it was original . So yes , it is kind of like a lecture . They are undergraduates and far from being experts in their field . Note that I am not saying that no undergraduate ever produces new results in pure math ( there are some high school students that are better than most PhDs ) , but it is not a common occurrence and is not expected or considered the norm .
Option 1 . At least in computer science , it happens often ( but not always ) that someone works on several somewhat disjoint but somewhat related problems . It 's all about the glue and the story ; if you can sell the cohesiveness of the thesis in the abstract and introduction , you 're golden . Be upfront about the fact that there may be some disjoint problems , but try to find and highlight the unifying themes . Here 's a quote my advisor always tells us which has relevance to this : " all wells , when dug deep enough , lead to the same water source . "
If such errors in published literature are relevant to the question of your thesis , then yes , it is not only appropriate , but even necessary that you address them . Otherwise , if the question of your thesis is not affected by these errors , and they are not major problems , I do n't think they are important enough to mention in the literature review .
You should definitely ask if they can buy it directly for you . I know my department has done this in the past with students who do n't have the cash on hand to wait for a reimbursement .
end question
start question
I have accepted a PhD offer . When to contact potential supervisors ?
The matter of when to meet or talk to your POI is definitely subjective , but in my personal opinion there 's no harm in keeping in touch , if you expect to have a relationship with this professor in the future . I think that creating a dialogue with this faculty and discussing potential research projects as an incoming student rather than a prospective student places you in a very different position , and is better than blindly looking at her papers , etc. . If nothing else , she may be able to guide you to other faculty as she learns more about you and your interest , and does n't see a good fit . Of course , none of this is concrete , but from my experience it was useful to informally keep in touch with POIs across the board and see where I would head in the future , both academically and at jobs .
It does n't matter what the supervisor 's Ph.D. was in , originally : fields are protean and careers take all sorts of strange paths . What really matters is whether the supervisor 's knowledge is sufficient to supervise the research that the student will be conducting . That depends on the path of their career , the precise focus of the student 's research , etc. . My advisor , for example , had a Ph.D. in mathematics ( since computer science did n't really exist as a separate field yet ) , but has worked in artificial intelligence , electrical engineering , physics , VLSI , biological modeling , and astronomy , and would be quite appropriate to supervise students in projects in any of those fields , if their focus and his background had sufficient overlap . Likewise , my background in artificial intelligence was no barrier to supervising a biology Ph.D. ( which I have done ) , given the path of my own research over time .
As I 've mentioned elsewhere on this site , students often seem to think in terms of " fairness " , but upon sufficiently intense scrutiny the concept is so fuzzily defined that it may well be that the only " fair " grading scheme is to give all students the same grade ... an outcome which would certainly be unacceptable to many students . Moreover : Ultimately , it will come down to the students who have better time management skills rather than those who really know better answers . Any way of administrating a course favors students with certain incidental skills over others . Giving a prearranged , timed exam favors students with sufficiently good time management skills over students with very poor ones . And not only that , the students who live " on-campus " are advantaged over commuter students . Students who have a watch can look at it , whereas others need to twist around in their seats to look at the clock in the back of the room [ if there is one ] , and so forth . Every seasoned instructor I know would agree that most exams test subject-unspecific study skills as well as " real knowledge " . Not to be too much of a downer , but the idea that a student has a well-defined " real knowledge " is a convenient reification , something that modern academic culture must believe in approximately in order to function but which it is dangerous to take too seriously . The real issue is to design the exam experience so as to test a reasonable set of skills , weighted in a reasonable way . There is no universal way to do this : it is better to be as explicit as possible about what skill set you want your exams to test and look to see if they do what you wanted . Anyway , a better question is : is this a good practice ? I think the answer is no , at least in many situations . Here are two obvious issues : An announcement which occurs five minutes before the end of an exam may come too late for students who have already left the exam . Unless the cohort of students taking the exam has the identical academic schedule [ this is prohibitively unlikely in many graduate programs at American universities ] , it is very unlikely that every student will actually be able to stay for the extra hour . I would describe the above two issues as concerning " fairness " . Any student who did not get the extra hour for either reason would have a very legitimate complaint . I am personally against this kind of offerings because it feels like they do more harm than good and reflects poorly on the professor 's planning . I agree that it reflects poorly on the professor 's planning . Whether it will do more harm than good to the students ' performance depends on the exam and the students . I agree that many or most students would find the experience of learning that they have 50 % more time at the very end of an exam stressful , and many would be resentful that they would have used their time differently had they known this information at the beginning of the exam . In summary : unfair ? Yes , if certain things happen , otherwise maybe not . A good practice ? No , I do n't think so . It sounds like a rather inexperienced / sloppy instructor to me , honestly .
First , check the fine print in the paper itself . Some journals ask the authors to designate one person as the " contact author " or " corresponding author " , and distinguish that author with a notation and a mark on the author list . If that is the case , then that is the person that you should write to . Beyond that , since the professor is well-known in your field , know that you are unlikely to end up doing much direct collaboration with them in any case , simply because they probably already have many different projects in progress . The student is also more likely to respond at all for the same reason . You ca n't know before writing , however , whether you 'd mostly likely end up working with this Ph.D. student or somebody else : if the student still has some years to go , you 'd likely end up collaborating with them ; if they are about to defend , they might either be " taking the project " or handing it off to another student . So if there is n't one person designated as contact author , write to both ( as ff524 suggests in the comments ) , and let them decide how to respond .
I do n't believe there 's a universal right answer for this question . I think it depends on the level of accommodation required , as well as the particulars of your own situation . In general , if you 're not being considered for a tenure-track or permanent-level position , there often is n't a lot you can do in terms of getting spousal accommodations , unless you have a very generous employer . In that case , I would n't think there 's ever a good time to bring up the matter , because there wo n't be much in the way of possibilities . For a tenure-track or equivalent position , on the other hand , I think that I would wait at least until the level of having secured an interview before bringing up these issues . Any earlier , and some employers may ( perhaps illegally , depending on jurisdiction ) wash their hands of the issue by skipping you in making the list of finalists . Once you 've gotten the interview , though , that 's no longer a concern . Whether to mention it during or after the interview depends on the ability of the school to do something about it . I would lean towards mentioning at the interview , and particularly so f the school has a " dual-career " office in place . If you wait , then you may spend your time negotiating and having to accept or decline the offer without a firm commitment of help in hand at the time .
This situation should not actually arise if you are handling your faculty job search properly . If you accept an offer , you should withdraw all your remaining job applications . Otherwise either you are wasting their time in considering you for a position you wo n't accept , or you were insincere in accepting the previous offer . If you are n't comfortable withdrawing your other applications , then you are n't comfortable accepting the job . You can negotiate on this point , for example by telling them that another job would solve your two-body problem and you hope they can wait on a final decision until you hear about that job , but there 's no guarantee that they will agree . The basic ethical principle here is honesty : you should n't give someone a decision they understand to be final without actually meaning it . By default , job acceptances are considered binding decisions in the parts of academia I 'm familiar with ( certainly in mathematics in the U.S. ) , so you ca n't just assume that of course they knew you might change your mind . If you have any reservations or conditions , you should make them explicit before accepting the position . This ca n't hurt you if nobody really considered the decision to be final in the first place , and it will avoid unethical behavior if they did . Even though this should n't happen , people do occasionally get themselves into this situation . If you unilaterally rescind your initial acceptance and take the other position instead , you face almost no legal risk , since nobody 's going to try suing over this . However , you can hurt your reputation , which is a serious danger . Instead , the way you should handle it is by careful discussions . Typically , University 2 will let you defer their offer for at least a year , since otherwise they look like jerks for trying to steal you away from University 1 after you already accepted an offer . ( Another possibility is that University 2 had no idea you had already accepted and will rescind their offer upon learning this . ) Then you approach University 1 and apologize profusely for inadvertently creating a terribly awkward situation . You explain that you are willing to come to University 1 and fulfill your obligations , but you have an offer from University 2 and you would very likely leave after a year to go there , so you wonder whether there is any chance they would release you from your acceptance . If they agree , then you are ethically free to accept University 2 's offer immediately . ( University 1 still wo n't be happy with you , so you should n't do this unless it really matters to you , but asking them for permission is much better than just announcing you are n't coming . ) If University 1 insists that they need you next year , then you defer University 2 's offer and show up at University 1 . But you really should n't let yourself get further faculty offers after you 've already accepted a job . You might be able to get away with it once by explaining that you accidentally forgot to withdraw your other applications , but you really do n't want to develop a reputation over time as someone who deliberately manipulates the system in unethical ways .
As a person who has hired quite a few people in industry , I will simply say that advanced areas ( or even areas that are perceived to be advanced ) often see PhDs being preferable . In this respect I completely agree with Bitwise . I do not , however , agree that you might earn less . Those with sought-after skills get paid well in industry . It is about supply and demand but supply ( people who can do the job ) is not high and demand is growing . Machine-learning is hot in the business literature . That is , managers are becoming well informed about the potentials of machine-learning and they are becoming worried that the only way they can compete for the long-term is by taking advantage of this area . While lower-level programming jobs might not see any benefit from higher qualifications , areas like machine-learning are not seen as lower-level . To answer your main question , are there pitfalls of having a PhD if you want a job in industry ? The answer is no . I am unaware of anyone who has ever thought lower of a job candidate because they have a PhD . Yes , you could get a job without one but for your areas of interest , a PhD will give you lots of advantage when it comes to getting job offers .
I 've actually worked in a lot of places with paid staff scientists in permanent/semi-pemanent positions like the ones you 're describing . Below are a list of things they 've mentioned about their jobs that they like , or things that made me consider exactly those types of positions : Some academic freedom . Of course they are being paid by you , so they need to work on funded projects primarily . But some ability to be working on side projects , " There 's an interesting direction I 'd like to take this in ... " etc. are extremely valuable . This also applies to research output - being able to author the occasional paper , take some credit for things they 've worked on with authorships , etc. . Respect . This is a big one , and one of the major perks that can be offered . Treat your staff like trash , and it 's just another job . On the other hand , if you treat your staff like highly-trained professionals who have expertise , do n't accept hot-shot new grad students acting like they 're " just " technicians , etc. that goes a long way . Job security . Hard to do as a new faculty member , but most of the more established faculty I know treated their staff as essential employees . If funding started to get hit , staff salaries were the last thing on the list to get cut before you hit " Turn off the lights and go home " stages . Make it clear to them you consider this to be true . Support if they want to do something else . This one seems a little counter-intuitive , but supporting the professional aspirations of staff has been helpful in my experience . It means they 're not looking for an escape hatch under the radar ( and thus leaving with little warning ) , they talk to other people who are interested in replacing them , students of yours see that working for your longer term would n't be a career dead end , etc. . Flexible hours , the ability to work from home , etc. . Essentially some of the same things that make academics value their positions over industry jobs . Insulation from some of the petty nonsense of academia . Basically , make sure you 're the shield between your staff and the things that make an academic 's life hard . That includes things like not having grant writing duties fall squarely on their shoulders to keeping them out of most departmental politics .
Getting a PhD almost always requires one to have some original contribution to your field . That result does n't always have to be an earth shattering proof of something completely original . Your work can build upon existing work , or draw connections between a variety of different topics that no one has noticed yet , or even just suggest that there is a problem that nobody has considered yet . The point is that there has to be something unique , and original that counts as your contribution to the body of knowledge . That is n't easy to do certainly , but it is n't impossible for normal people to accomplish through lots of time and hard work either .
It depends of what you mean by " an alternative " . If you mean an alternative to publish your article , you can certainly find other journals that do n't require that you grant them exclusive rights . Generally , that would mean an open-acess journal using the Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY ) . Prime examples are the major OA publishers : PLOS , BioMed Central , and Hindawi . If you mean publishing in a particular journal that requires coypright transfer , the answer is that granting them exclusive publishing rights is a publication condition , so that you ca n't avoid it . So what you gain in signing is ... to have your article published by that journal . What you loose is highly variable among publishers . Often , they ( who are now the copyright owners by virtue of the agreement ) allow you ( the authors ) to keep some " rights " ( I prefer to speak of " permissions " ) . Some publishers are quite generous , others not at all ; you must carefully read the copyright agreement to know exactly what you will be able to do with your article . Note also that some publishers ask ( or propose as an option ) an exclusive license instead of copyright transfer . Sometimes , they describe it as an advantage for authors , who keep the copyright on their work . But the truth is that some of these licenses give the publishers about the same rights as a complete copyright transfer , so that copyright ownership becomes an almost empty concept . See , for instance , Wiley , <URL> without any difference in the actual rights transferred . Again , one has to carefully read the publication agreement . Finally , in theory , one can always suggest changes in a copyright agreement , for instance deleting part of the text or adding some . There is also the <URL> , that you can attach to the copyright agreement , asking the publisher that you want to keep non-commercial use rights . The publisher may then accept these changes ( usually by not responding , and publishing the article anyway ) , or refuse them . From what I read , there are both success and failure stories in that regard .
They can not fund you directly , so you need to bring money from elsewhere . Your best bet is to ask them , as they would be aware of the possible agencies that provide grants in your field . They should also be able to help you put together a stronger application . In any case , your position is uncertain , so do n't overcommit to this place , and keep applying elsewhere .
My strong advice is a clear NO ! There are several reasons : The journal might contact other reviewers , not the ones you suggested . Possible conflict of interest , even if you do n't send your paper with the review request The reviewing process is a business between the editor and the reviewer . It is specially designed to enhance the quality of the accepted papers ( Blind , double blind reviews , etc ) . Once you contact the reviewers , any chance of a blind review goes up in smoke . If the potential reviewer that you contact , is not selected by the journal he/she might feel offended . So , in a word : NO
Good PhD Advisors ( tm ) would first of all talk to the student about the issue . Large-scale depressions need to be properly treated and respected . The important thing is to find out if it is the academic work that causes the depressions and to take counter-measures if it is . Now if the depression lasts , is properly treated and puts obtaining the PhD at > 90 % risk of failure and all possible measures have been taken to help the student ( both on the professional level and as far as applicable and feasible , on the personal level ) , then the student is wasting time in academia . And nothing is more depressing than that . So a Good PhD Advisor ( tm ) would help the student with establishing a new working life that makes use of the degrees already obtained as much as possible . This is basically the best the advisor can do to pave the way to a happier life for the student . I would n't call that " firing " someone .
At my institution the selection was two-fold . The professor usually has an open invitation for all students to apply for their lab , but chosen students were known to be approached to raise their interest . This was always done carefully as to do n't imply any precedence between students , but not secretly , and almost always orally ( not by email or similar ) . For example , at the project oral defense , the instructor would suggest to the best students to consider applying for their lab . At least all of my instructors were careful not to " flatter " the students , but only to raise their interest . There is little sense to have a , no matter how brilliant , student working on a project , if they are not interested in the subject .
As a student , you should not be required to fund equipment purchases yourself . Rather , it is your supervisor 's responsibility to work with you to scope a project that is within the funding that they wish to allocate to it . So if your supervisor wants to do a study with 15 people , your supervisor needs to have a sufficient budget to support it . Otherwise , you might end up , say , doing your work in simulation instead , which is much cheaper but less convincing in its results . Now , some students do buy small things themselves , especially if it is a low-cost " toy " that they want to play with themselves ( e.g. , a Raspberry Pi or a phone sensor pack ) and they do n't want to go through the delay and hassle of university purchasing . That 's an exception , however , and certainly not to be expected for a multi-user study .
I do n't think that there 's a huge enough discrepancy between the technical content of the European three-year bachelor 's and the four-year American bachelor 's to make that a big concern . However , where you may run into problems is that your GPA might not be considered competitive for a top program , if it 's only in the 8.0 's out of 10 . ( It might get translated to a 3.3 or so , which would be problematic . ) What will make up for this is some statement that you 're near the top of your CS cohort , and good letters of recommendation will also help . Where you 'll also need to do some research is on whether the departments you want to apply to offer terminal master 's programs ; if not , it will make it a little more difficult , as the expectation would be that if you are admitted to the master 's program , you will then continue on to the PhD program thereafter . ( At such schools , a stipend is typically offered during the master 's phase of the program ; at schools that offer a terminal master 's , the funding sources for the master 's degree-only candidates is usually quite distinct , if it is available at all . )
First things first : whenever you write again or otherwise contact your potential advisor , stay polite and respectful . Conduct yourself in the most professional manner you can . While you might feel your correspondent is acting unprofessionally in not responding at a rate that pleases you , asking again in anything that looks like a demanding tone is not going to reflect well on you . There are many possible reasons why your correspondent has n't replied to your first email yet , even 10 days down the line . You are probably already quite aware of the possibilities , but here are a few : He/she is simply busy . Is it a busy time of year ? Is it examination time ? Is he/she likely to busy marking/providing feedback . providing lectures ? Is he/she on holiday ? A quick check with the Department/School/Institute administration should answer this . There could be personal reasons . You do n't want to appear a demanding person when the academic is making preparations for a family member 's funeral - for example ! Extreme sitation , yes , but not impossible . With these possibilities in mind , you could write again to your potential advisor , reminding him/her that you are very keen to work together . I do not advise simply re-sending your original email unless you have good reason to believe that the original did n't reach its target - e.g. you have received a mailhost error relating to an undelivered message . I suspect this is not the case . In your follow-up email , refer to your previous email . Resending an email is similar to saying to someone " I SAID ... !!! " . In your follow-up email , I would acknowledge that the academic might well be very busy and that you would gratefully appreciate any time the academic could spend talking with you about research opportunities . Offer alternatives - you 've hinted at this - such as arranging a meeting or a telephone call at a time convenient for the academic . At this stage , be reasonably formal . Your spelling and grammar should be as good as you can make it . This indicates that you are taking this correspondence seriously , as should he/she . It is very easy to appear demanding , annoying or otherwise negative in an email , even if that is not your intention . Turn up the politeness up a few notches , even if you think it 's starting to be sickly and ingratiating . In emails , it is extremely easy to appear demanding or accusatory . You do n't have the advantage of being present in a conversation to send all those little non-verbal clues which make up the vast majority of human communication . I think that it is appropriate to mention that you have some expectations when you 'd like to have this interaction . You could mention that you are meeting with other advisers ( if true ) and that you 'd like to be in a position to make a decision in one/two month 's time . For this reason , you 'd like to have a meeting sometime in the next 1-2 weeks , if possible . Summary : You be unfailingly polite and professional , You put effort into your next email - do n't just resend a previous one , You suggest as many alternatives for an interaction you can think of , You provide some kind of time-scale for action .
There are universities and research centers in Europe who accepts students without a masters degree , but they would require to take full credits of masters and to complete modules , before or while the research is being conducted . Therefore you might want to get in touch of those universities . Here are a few which I know of : <URL> <URL> Most of the time you need to show that you have enough skills with your previous experiences , publications , the letter of application/statement of purpose . An interview may follow where you will be asked about your work and the domain of work in which you have applied .
Unless you have some reason to believe your revised paper has some serious additional problems , I do n't think you should worry . It may not be best practices for referees and editors to operate this way ( just looking to see whether the changes requested in the first report have been adequately completed ) . Ideally , the referee should check over carefully that none of the changes have introduced new problems , but that is n't always done . The referee and editor may have felt that the revisions were not really that big a deal . You may have been overthinking things when you made the changes ; they might have intended some considerably less sweeping editing . Or the referee may have seriously underestimated how much additional work and explication would be required to fix the problems the referee pointed out . The referee might even have told the editors that another round of refereeing would not actually be necessary ; if you made the changes , then the paper would be ready for publication . ( For several of the journals I have refereed for , this is one of the options in the recommendation menu of the reviewing software ; however , I also know , as an author , that this part of the review is not shared with the authors . )
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
end question
start question
How can I tell my advisor that I 'm not going to work for free ?
I would suggest that you repeat that you did not win the fellowship and ask if he has other funding available , " because I am still very interested in the work , but will need to find paid work instead if I ca n't get a stipend for this collaboration . "
Your job , as an academic , is twofold : Do amazing research . Write it up and convey your results to other people . It sounds like you view ( 2 ) to apply only to others who are already in your field and are completely familiar with everything you 've done . You will find that , in the entirety of your field , there are probably just a few dozen people who are intimately familiar with every details of your field , and only a few hundred who are really familiar with what you do . Everyone else -- academic , layperson , village idiot -- will require an explanation , and you should do them the favor of explaining it to them . To more directly answer your question , you should always have two answers ready to the question " what do you do ? " : An elevator pitch , as described elsewhere . This should take ~ 15-30 seconds to say and would give a very high-level overview of your work . A more in-depth explanation , which would take about 3-5 minutes , which conveys what you do in more detail . Generally speaking , less time than that and you ca n't convey any useful information , more time than that and you 're giving too many details . After your in-depth explanation , either the person will say , " oh " , and move on , or they 'll ask questions and you can have an intellectual discussion . ( Note : the following point is somewhat debatable . ) I 've found for myself that it helps to visualize the person you 're talking to as paying your salary ; if you 're on a publicly-funded research grant ( i.e. , any governmental grant ) , their taxes are funding your research . It gives some perspective .
I would break this down into two parts . First , discuss your circumstances with your advisor and explain that you want to spend more time " at home " , and ask how he feels about you working remotely . Go into the discussion with a concrete proposal for how the practicalities might work : how will you do your work ? Do you have access to the resources you 'll need ? How will you stay in touch with your advisor/colleagues/the research community ? Take on board any reservations your advisor might have ; do n't go into the discussion with too fixed an idea of what the " right " outcome is . Agree to review the arrangements once they 've been tested for a while . Once you have agreement in principle , then you can hash out the dates . I would try and start with relatively short stretches of remote working - a couple of weeks - to allow any teething problems/concerns ( on either side ) to be resolved . I suspect everyone will be happier if you can spend your six months away in short chunks , rather than in one big block . Also , recognise that your advisor may have reasons to want you present for certain occasions/portions of the year - involve him in your planning .
Recommend not on the first day . I 'm actually in exactly this situation for the fall term , so I was prepping myself mentally for just this issue . In my experience , expressing any uncertainty about the course on the first day prompts almost instantaneous pleading/negotiation/argumentation over any and all stated procedures ( parameters for assignments , grading , due dates , etc. , etc. ) Now , this is partly influenced by the fact that I work at an urban community college where the student maturity level can be quite low for certain courses . If you work at a more high-powered institution then the environment might be different . But I still think it best to be authoritative at the start , gauge the environment on subsequent days , and then if you feel comfortable admitting the situation and/or asking for feedback later on , you 'll be more confident about doing so .
Well , I find <URL> focusing on eyetracking by using Google and search operators . Of course , you should add some redundant similar terms ( eye-movement , baby , ... ) Notice , there are some patterns : american universities nearly always have edu ( actually it 's even a domain ) in their URL , german univ. uni . So using in google filters out a lot . Non-university institutes like german Max-Planck often have URL patterns too . further add to filter out more useless results add to be sure the site/group is still active and the topic on their agenda . add ( latter being german translation , but afaik nowadays most natural sciences groups in Germany have a english ( &amp; german ) page ) Some research branches also have a online directory , there exist also internet directories like dmoz ( not sure if this stuff is up to date , probably some dead links ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> At least I can say that most research groups in Germany will have a english home page and short summary/research topics/open positions on it . So there should be no general problem to find them by some " serious " googling . But do n't use too specific keywords , " eyetracking on infants " , " dualistic view " is too special imho , use keywords being specific rather to the topic than the exact methodology . They are probably mainly interested in how the visual recognition system adapts and learns over time , this is the bigger thematic picture . You attract master and phd students not by naming a special experimental method , so you will not find these type of keywords often on a group page , where they often try to put in a minimum of time .
I published my PhD thesis as a book in VDM verlag . It publishes PhD dissertations and working with them is quite easy . The only problem is they put a relatively high price on your book and this might reduce the sale of your book . Due to this problem , I have received no royalty from my book yet . So if you think any other publisher can do better ( financially ) it is better you consider another publisher . Their publishing strategy is based on printing on demand . It means they publish a few copies of your book and sell them to some big libraries around the world . Then if an individual purchases your book online , they publish it for him as they receive the order . If you want to publish your book quickly and easily , you may want to use their service . for more information about their work see <URL> or their website <URL> .
Talk to the course coordinator immediately and coordinate your next steps . Apparently , there was a serious breakdown in communication , and the course coordinator did n't provide any guidelines whatsoever suggests to me that you are not the only one to blame . Whatever your next steps will be , they need to be aligned with the coordinator and his expectations . You may be able to extend deadlines , adjust grading rubrics or something else . Next time , make sure you know what the coordinator wants . ( And the coordinator should make sure , too . )
As Aleksandar says , you do need to learn the terminology in order to search effectively for articles . And in fact , you 'll need to know the terminology in order to understand those articles . When I 'm exploring a new subject area , I do n't start with the journal articles ; I start with books , web tutorials , etc. , to get the basics . For learning the terminology , I also suggest reading the relevant articles in Wikipedia or Scholarpedia . They will also have links to journal articles ; get hold of those articles and see what keywords they use . Anytime you find a useful article , note the keywords , and what journal it 's in . This will help you find other useful articles , and places where you might submit your own articles in future . Also , your college librarian may be able to help you figure out some of the keywords to use . They usually know a little about a wide variety of topics , at least enough to have some ideas of what search terms might be useful . If you set up an appointment , they may be able to spend some time with you , helping you find some sample articles and working with you to figure out a good search strategy .
Flippant version : It is normal AND it is a sign that the advisor does n't care at all . Less flippant version : I would wait a couple more days . Then , if still no response , I would ask around to see if the professor is sick/having a major life crisis/etc . If not , then I would conclude that they do not meet a reasonable standard of availability , and I would choose to work with someone else . There are few things more depressing in academia than colleagues who drop the ball and ignore you , especially when they are senior to you and you rely on them to make progress on your work . Life is too short to be working with someone who is not interested in working with you .
I 've never seen anything like this on a CV . If you have other publications , I certainly would n't include this . It would look like you are trying too hard to find something to put on your CV , which could do more harm than good . Let your publications stand for themselves . One thing you could do when describing the various jobs you 've had , is to include the statistical analysis work in the description of the activities you performed in that job . You could also mention it in the cover letter , if it is relevant for the job . Finally , do bring it up in the interview as an example of how you work in a collaboration .
Academia is s sort of pyramid scheme . The number of people interested in positions at the next level up greatly exceeds the number of vacancies . This is not a secret so an applicant who wants to go into industry should not be disadvantaged . That said , whether you will be allowed to commercialize the results of your PhD research will depend on the University and group / department policies as well as the source of your funding and any conditions attached to that .
" While normally as a graduate I should be very thankful and jump on this , I simply can not do the work asked due to time and I believe there would be a more suitable candidate for the work . " That is more or less exactly what you should say . Express your gratitude to Professor A . If you have a major academic obligation taking up your time , like comprehensive exams or something , mention that . Do NOT CC the candidates you have in mind , but do mention to Professor B that you can recommend someone else who you think would be a good fit .
I would approach your supervisor with request for advice and depending on what the problem is , ( s ) he may recommend you speak to some other scholarly expert in the field . If ( s ) he does n't , you could suggest yourself that it might be an idea to speak to some expert . Your supervisor and you could work out a viable solution . This has happened to me numerous times during my PhD - the nature of the project meant that other scholars had to be consulted . My supervisor had no problems with this , but I made sure that I always let him know , and in many cases , he had recommended I speak to other scholars and was also able to recommend various experts . It is always polite to keep your supervisor in the loop .
Assuming the journals you publish in allow it , you can submit your work to a preprint archive such as ArXiv.org . You can also put it up on a personal website . Even if someone tries to scoop you , if you work is ever published , the date it was submitted for review should appear in the final article , giving your work precedence on any other . As for your concerns about reviewers stealing your work , there is not much else you can do besides the above . The peer review system is based on good faith , and hopefully you end up with ethical reviewers .
Ask your university librarian . Usually universities libraries collaborate with each other . They can look whether the other universities have the book ( I know this happens within Canadian universities ) . .
Does anyone else experience this ? Yes , I 'm pretty sure we all do to some extent , and that it 's one of the defining characteristics of being a researcher that you get so emotionally involved in your work and are so passionate about it that it has that effect . It can be both a curse and a blessing ( see the fantastic question linked to by jakebeal in the comments ) . Hopefully if you are talented and work hard , it will be the latter more often than the former . As for how to manage it : get used to it ( I mean that literally , not as a sarcastic admonition ) - if you plan a career in academia there will always be ups and downs of this sort . At some point one learns to be patient and not to freak out every time the research is n't going great . Always have other more " normal " work to do , like teaching , that can help you feel like you 're doing something worthwhile even during those times when you 're stumped with your research .
This answer is for the US , based on my experience with US admissions . I would say that this is generally not an applications/admissions question , only because it 's unlikely to be meaningful to admissions committees . Many graduate departments in computer science work on a cohort-admissions model , where a group of students are admitted each year and then are expected to find a faculty adviser once accepted . In this model it is up to you to find a research program that personally motivates you and then to persuade an adviser to take you on . It is at this stage that you would ( and should ) make it clear to a potential adviser that you 're not willing to work on defense related projects . However , at this point it 's probably moot because you 're going to be talking to potential advisers based on your perceived compatibility . What might be a better thing to do during the application process is to ask whether a candidate department conducts any defense related research . Then you can just not apply to defense-related organizations rather than make it a point of contention with programs that you 're interested in . Additionally , most CS research is not defense related , and most all broad-based research departments will have plenty of research opportunities that are not defense projects . Consider that <URL> and ineligible for this kind of work anyway . You will have no problem finding non-military projects to work on . Some places are well-known as defense-related institutions - for example the MIT Lincoln Laboratory , the Naval Research Laboratory , or the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory . It is usually obvious from these organization 's websites that this is a focus of theirs , and you can just avoid them . However , if you wanted to apply to a place such as this I would definitely discuss your personal ethics eariler rather than later , and your ethics definitely do n't disqualify you . These labs do a lot of research that is " defense-related " in the sense that it provides for the common defense of the country , not because it 's a military project . They work on everything from actual weapons systems to civil defense projects like weather satellites , making the energy grid more robust , and information security .
If you are an <URL> user , you can use the <URL> package . This package allows you to analyze data from Google Scholar and obtain citations , publication list and even perform predictions of the h-index . An example R code :
Hi , do you think we can get my work so far published as an article ? If the answer is no : So , what else do you think we would have to do to get it publishable ? Professors and supervisors are human beings . They wo n't eat you if you make the wrong question , or use a slightly unproper tone . Do n't worry specially when you are in a very low risk situation , and you know each other . ( Once you get the go , do n't forget to clarify and define authorship ) .
You say that your work on methods is uninteresting , but that you believe the results to be valuable . That 's great ! You should write a paper about the results ! Sometimes people feel like the amount of manuscript text they produce for each aspect of their work should be proportional to the time and energy put into that aspect , e.g. , if you spent 3/4 of your time working on the methods , then your text should be approximately 3/4 about the methods . That is incorrect . The amount of space something takes up in the text should be proportional to how interesting it is to the reader . Sometimes you have to put in a lot of work on something that is very simple to explain , and that 's OK . Focus on the bits that will be interesting to the reader , and instead tell your friends the stories of how long and hard you worked on the " uninteresting " bits to get there .
end question
start question
How to structure of a Ph.D. sandwich thesis ?
This is the structure that worked for me and number of my friends throughout western European universities : Title : A title that reflects your contributions/publications . Table of contents ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS ABBREVIATIONS Abstract INTRODUCTION Note on Introduction : Most important of all is to highlight what you want to answer in your research . Also the problem/motivation should be discussed here . Paper1 ... PaperN Note On Paper-Based Chapters : The order of them are very important . Order them based on the content not the year of the publication . Evaluation : In this chapter put both the discussion and results . Try to figure out the benefits and shortcomings of your research . CONCLUSIONS and Future Work : conclude based on your contribution and highlight the future work . REFERENCES Note : Not so many students take time on organizing their references ' style . Most of them just copy/paste the Bibtex code and do n't look if all their references obey the same style rules . ANNEXES
Very roughly , at the US universities I have worked for , the IP policies have been along these general lines : When you write a paper or book as part of your research , you get to keep the copyright and any royalties . But the university gets permission to use the work internally , keep a copy in the library , etc. . If , as part of your research , you invent something that 's patentable , contact the university 's IP office . They will help you with the patent process . You and the university will hold the patent together , or some similar arrangement . They have to agree on any licensing agreements , etc ( where you sell some company the rights to use your patent ) , and they get a large share ( perhaps half or so ) of whatever royalties or fees are earned . ( I 'm a pure mathematician , and we never invent anything patentable , so I always skim the patent part and may have got it wrong :-)
No , there is n't any general rule . First , a PhD degree is awarded by a university , not by an individual . The education system of a country or the university rules usually define which positions can officially act as supervisors . The same education system or the university rules establish which titles should have a person to be eligible for those positions : if the PhD is not required , which is not uncommon , there can certainly be PhD supervisors without a PhD . Another case is the following : in Italy the PhD degree has been established some thirty-odd years ago . This means that most of those who became professors in Italy before that time do n't have a PhD ( as Federico rightly observes , some might have taken it abroad ) , but they surely can supervise students officially .
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
It sounds as though your major contribution to expanding the extent of human knowledge is in showing how the new technique can be used to confirm results ( X ) which were obtained by the old technique . So when defending your thesis , you better be very sure that you show how this new technique enhances our understanding of X !! If you are unsure how to best present this , talk to your advisor . In fact , even if you believe you know how best to present your contribution , talk to your advisor ! Take advantage of his/her experience and knowledge of the field to position yourself where your contribution can make the greatest possible impact . You need to prove that you have expanded human knowledge , so focus on how this is better than the old technique , not on how you have gotten exactly the same results . Again , your advisor should best be able to show you how to do this .
I completely agree with ff524 's criteria , but here are some further considerations : A good thesis topic should not be all or nothing . Instead , it should accommodate a range of levels of ambition . There should be fallback options that would be enough to graduate even if things go poorly , moderately ambitious outcomes that you could reasonably aim for , and very ambitious outcomes that would be fantastic if they could be achieved . It should offer scope for creativity and choice by the student . You can only impress hiring committees so much if it looks like your advisor was the mastermind behind your thesis . Instead , it has to be clear that over time you took ownership of the project and played a major role in determining its direction ( even if your advisor made the initial suggestion and provided feedback and guidance ) . Your thesis topic should connect with other topics you 'd like to explore in the future . If you spend your entire early career revisiting and elaborating on your thesis topic , it wo n't set you up for success as a researcher . Instead , you need to branch out , and your choice of thesis topic can really help with this . Choose a topic that is central and well-connected to adjacent areas , rather than one that is isolated . That way you can build on your previous experience as you branch out . Your thesis advisor needs to care about the topic . Sometimes people are willing to supervise theses on topics they do n't particularly care about . They do this in an attempt to be helpful , but it can end up working against you when you graduate and discover that your advisor 's lack of caring translates into a lack of support on the job market . For a multi-year project like a thesis , it 's generally best to pick a topic that seems to be becoming more popular and influential over time , rather than less so . This sounds obvious , but it 's surprisingly subtle to figure out . Beginners are sometimes a little behind the times and can get excited by topics that were hot a few years ago but have since been thoroughly investigated and are already in decline . It should be something you like doing , not just something you would like to have done .
You should try to publish before you finish your thesis . An idea in a published paper will be recognized as yours , there are more chances of an idea getting stolen from a thesis .
Whether an advisor will agree to supervise a master 's thesis outside of their area of expertise depends on the advisor . It may also vary between fields or universities , but I believe the personal variance will be much higher , so the best way to find out is to ask a potential advisor . As for whether it 's a good idea , I see three issues . You will not receive expert advice in your chosen area . Of course , there 's a trade-off here : would you rather study what you love best without expert advice , or get better advising on another topic ? You may receive actively bad advice . To avoid this difficulty , it 's important for you to read extensively and to choose an advisor who is open minded and flexible . Your advisor may not write an enthusiastic letter of recommendation for you . Sometimes an advisor will let a student choose to do whatever they want , but when the advisor recommends the student , it becomes clear that the advisor is uninterested in the student 's work and unimpressed by it . I 've seen this cause trouble for several people , so I strongly recommend trying to find an advisor who is actually enthusiastic about your topic ( even if it 's not what they work on ) . In your specific case , choosing to study second language acquisition in a language nobody on the faculty speaks sounds like only a mild concern ( assuming you speak it fluently or have access to excellent informants ) , since I imagine much of the advising would be about research methodology or language acquisition theories , rather than language-specific issues . However , I do n't know enough about this area to say for sure .
My experience of business cards in academia is that they are mostly just an easier way to share contact information than scribbling it on a napkin . As such , the only things that are really important are institution , name , title ( because everybody will expect it ) , and sets of preferred contact information . As such , if you want people calling you , put down your phone number ; if you do n't want people calling you , do n't put it down . Likewise for all of the other standard aspects . You probably should have a web page that you want people to visit . As for social media sites like LinkedIn : I 'm rather dubious about them , simply because there are potentially so many . I think one would n't be a problem , but the extrapolator in my mind goes to a ridiculous image of somebody handing me a card with their LinkedIn , Twitter , Google + , ResearchGate , Facebook , etc. . Do n't be that person , or else if I meet you at a conference and you hand me your card , I may have a difficult time avoiding laughter .
There are no standards but there is a reasonable logical progression that can be followed from the general and larger to the smaller points . I would therefore structure a letter as follows : An introduction highlighting the merits of the topic and the study . Often this paragraph ends by stating that certain revisions may be necessary . It i snot the reviewers task to state whether he or she feels the manuscript should be rejected , under go revisions or be accepted . That should be stated to the editor only . Following the introduction would be more general aspects such as structure , language etc. . Next larger scientific issues that concern more general aspects of the study , not tiny details . The points would concern entire chapters or sets of paragraphs and usually be the cause for significant reworking of the manuscript . The final part , and usually the longest may be small issues or questions concerning aspects that need clarification or correction , usually pointing at the page and line where the problems occur . The letter should be capped off by summarizing the review and making a statement as to whether you think significant or minor reworking is necessary . Note that I am not speaking about a verdict but an assessment of how much work you think is necessary to complete the short-comings you have identified .
There are two major types of advisor approaches which I 've encountered during my studies : Hands-off , abstract guidance only . Hint at which areas are interesting or currently active , but do not throw yourself into your student 's work . Usually such advisors will gladly proofread the student 's work for errors , but they rarely know what to do if a student gets seriously stuck . Advisor sessions may be spent discussing current trends , future work of either the advisor or the student or , in some cases , simply " life advice " . Co-worker approach . The advisor treats his student as an equal and tries to immerse himself into the student 's work ( or vice versa ) . By having a lot of exposure to the advisor 's routine ( how he goes around solving problems , how much time he spends doing research , how he prepares for lectures , etc. ) , the teacher aims to guide the student by example . These two approaches are often seen in combination ( while the student may be treated as a coworker , he still is usually the one to do the typesetting , the programming , and other time-consuming tasks ) . Personally , I prefer the second approach , which is likely because I am not that settled in the " theoretical research " routine . Some of my friends , who have known since their Master 's studies what they want to do , are very enthusiastic about having a well known professor with the hands-off approach . To answer the question about either approach fostering independence , I believe the hands-off approach leads to much larger independence as a researcher , but the coworker approach may lead to a much better work ethic ( mirroring the professor ) , which is tremendously important in science . It seems to me that students have a harder time successfully completing research ( asking the right question , having the right insights , etc. ) than being independent . Therefore I believe that student/advisor relationship does not need to promote " independence " in any substantial way .
When I look at an application there are four aspects that count : grades cover letter earlier written work ( BS/MS thesis ) Recommendation letters Out of these , I focus most of my attention on the latter two : if the thesis is well-written , has received a good grade , and the letters of recommendation support the candidate in terms of ability to do research ( from reading up on the field to writing everything up ) and independence ( how much ( or little ) support the candidate needed . The cover letter would not make the application , but could break it if it is unfocussed and does not show any skills in expressing the interest in a structured way while avoiding irrelevant information . The grades would , in most cases , be the least interesting since they primarily show one 's ability to read and understand , not necessarily reasoning and deduction . The exception is the grade for the thesis . So , to answer the question , I am not sure which might be more important but anything that supports your ability to do research is of prime interest to anyone evaluating an application . EDIT : To follow up on Gerrit 's suggestion , my personal ranking list would be ( in falling order ) : Earlier written work Recommendation letters Cover letter Grades ( although the grade on the written work is included in 1 ) But , all parts are useful and in the end some mix of all will be used . I would also add that 1 and 2 will " make " the application while 3 and 4 will mainly help to " break " the application .
Honestly , my expectations for undergraduate theses are very limited . Any well-written discussion that demonstrates significant understanding of the research area is probably satisfactory . A doctoral dissertation is supposed to demonstrate significant research skill and the ability to perform cutting-edge research . A master 's thesis is supposed to demonstrate the ability to perform some useful research in the subject area . An undergraduate thesis is supposed to demonstrate that a student knows something worth knowing about a topic , and original results are not generally a requirement . In a way , it is good that you are unhappy with your undergraduate honors thesis . That demonstrates that you know what you have actually accomplished and also clearly understand the weaknesses of your work . It may be unfortunate that you have not had enough time to complete all the work you would have liked to complete , but if you continue along an academic career path , you will get ample opportunities to pursue more complete research projects . ( As a personal note , I should add that as I am writing this comment , I really ought to be providing comments on the thesis draft that I received the other day from my own honors college student . This is a really good student , and he has already appeared as an author on a paper in a top journal , based on his work over the past year . On the other hand , his written thesis is lacking in both contextualization and descriptive detail . To bring his work up to the level where I would like it to be would be a significant undertaking , and it is probably not going to get to that level in the limited time we have . To some extent , that leaves me disappointed , but I do not want to lose track of the fact that this is a really first-rate student , and what he has produced -- imperfect as it is -- is quite remarkable for an twenty-one-year-old undergraduate . )
The criticism is that you 're not up to date on the current state of your own field of specialty , and it is not a light matter . If the " reviewer " is some sort of committee member that can throw a wrench into your exit process , you should address the criticism . The real issue is how to address it . My assumption here is that your defense will be " typical " , with a formal presentation followed by some sort of closed session . You have a very limited amount of time before your defense , and you need to use it wisely . To start , I 'd pick the five most relevant citations to your work that you have , and search them forward to see who cited them , and read those papers -- there will probably be less than 20 . If nothing earth-shattering has happened , you will eventually add those to your reference list , and all should be good . If there is something earth shattering and pertinent to your work , you probably have more research to do at this point . How will your reviewer know you did it ? Well , for the closed session , you should have a slide in your rack entitled " review of recent literature " . In closed session , make the opportunity to say " in review , a criticism of how up to date my knowledge of the field was came up . This was accurate , and this is how I 've responded ... I think I 've covered this , and will continue to stay up to date with the literature " . To add , they may require a bit of a rewrite -- that 's actually fairly common -- but worry about that when the time comes . The strategy is to to convince them that you 've done the work , and you 're ready to do that rewrite . You do n't have the time to do it between now and your defense , and my experience is that the document is largely sealed until it 's defended anyway . You 're trying to set things up so your revised dissertation will be signed off on without a thorough going-through .
As noted <URL> , this is probably highly dependent on the university culture and field . My answer is based on my impressions from CS in Germany . In my subfield ( HCI-related ) , it was most usual for doctoral candidates to supervise between one and four Bachelor/Master theses a year , maybe a bit less for post-docs ( each of which took exactly 6 months ) . ( Depending on the topic , supervision occasionally took place in groups - i.e. two or three supervisors for one student , taking turns at supervision tasks or focusing different aspects of the work . ) As a rough guideline , the " amount " of supervision provided was usually a weekly meeting ( typically , between 10 and 60 minutes in length ) with the student to give them advice and answer questions . And , realistically , in some phases and for some students , to remind them that they should get some work done because they can not work on their Bachelor/Master thesis forever . As a secondary channel of supervision , students were free to ask urgent questions whenever they came up , via e-mail or by just dropping by in the supervisor 's office whenever it was convenient . The kind of supervision covered a wide spectrum - essentially , everything from high-level advice ( decisions about the content and how to proceed , developing some basic ideas for solutions together , scientific best practices , ... ) to low-level operational details ( technical issues in the code and in the LaTeX document , stylistic writing and layouting questions in the document , ... ) could come up .1 As for looking at drafts , I agree with <URL> in that it 's likely too late if the thesis is almost due . Personally , when I knew the student was in the phase in which they had already scheduled some writing , I would ask my students on almost every meeting whether there 's a new or revised section that I can read and comment on ( not necessarily because I was so keen on commenting , but first and foremost as another means of urging students to do the part of the task that most liked the least - writing the thesis document ) . Moreover , at least at my home department , we usually required students to use the department 's <URL> version control system , which was another way how supervisors could look at the students ' progress and the current state of their thesis when they had a feeling progress was n't as smooth as it should be . Lastly , concerning fairness , I must admit the thought that there could be anything unfair ( in a way that should be avoided ) in this never crossed my mind . Of course , supervisors in different institutes may hold very different opinions as to what amount and kind of effort is optimal and feasible in their supervision . But then , students are not assigned to supervisors in my place ; they usually pick a topic they like and they know beforehand who is going to be the supervisor for that topic . Anyway , as a result of the different opinions , supervision between institutes differed . Students could have bad luck with their supervisor , or with the typical style of supervision in the institute that focuses on the subfield they like . But the question is : Should you do anything about it ? I 'd say no . First , because I consider it part of a university graduate 's skills to also get along with supervision that does not ideally suit their personal preferences . And moreover , because I firmly believe that unfairness should not be countered by removing any advantages until every option is as bad as the original quality minimum . 1 : This does not mean that students would have supervisors do all their work . The goal was rather guiding the students towards a balance between working out problems autonomously and not being shy to actively contact the supervisor about any current roadblocks .
This is a partial representation of the truth . On the one hand , departments are always looking to retain masters students as PhD students ; it 's better for the department ( better numbers ) , it 's better for the professors ( more research from PhD relative to masters ) , and it 's better for the university . On the other hand , simply looking at the numbers you 'll see that most masters students do not go on to become a PhD student <URL> . I think it 's safe to say that most students who go through masters programs enter with a goal in mind ( academia or industry ) and finish with that same goal in mind . I do n't know how it works in other countries , so I ca n't compare that . Also , regarding whether they put more emphasis on PhD preparation than in other countries , I do n't know how to quantify that .
One approach is follows : Find one or two good recent PhD theses in your chosen area . Read these thoroughly . As you read , write down every question that pops into your mind , write down every time the author states that something is left for future work or needs further investigation . This will have a dual effect . Firstly , you will get a good introduction to a particular research field . Secondly , you will have a bunch of questions that need to be investigated . Prune trivial questions , non-sensible ones , etc. . Next , organize your questions thematically and see whether you can find a common thread to these questions , something that could form the basis of your research . Remove any questions that do not fit will with the others . Based on the remaining questions , formulate a couple of coherent questions that your research could address . Write a plan to address these questions . Work through plan . Write thesis .
Usually that is included in the Preface , which comes in the beginning of the thesis . Some call it ' Declaration of Authorship ' instead of ' Preface ' . See for example <URL> .
As alluded to in the comments , there is no generic " right " answer : the number will depend strongly on the nature of your thesis , the state of the literature related to it , and your personal scholastic style . Nevertheless , in the spirit of engineering approximations , I will supply you with some rough guidelines . As a lower bound , I would be startled if it was possible to place most theses within the context of pre-existing work in less than about 20 references . In certain contexts such as an obscure corner of pure mathematics perhaps this might be possible , but in most cases work does not take place in a vacuum , and other people will have either used similar techniques or cared about similar problems in the past . As an upper bound , I would be concerned with a thesis with on the order of 200 or more references that the student has n't been doing enough work on their own original research and has been investing too much time and energy in building a literature review , rather than a thesis . Again , there will likely be cases where a thesis with an extremely high number of references would be reasonable , but these are likely to be unusual . Notice the extremely wide range and suspiciously round numbers in my estimates : really there is no " right " answer for how many there should be in general , but perhaps these will help with some initial first impressions in one 's thinking .
In computer science in general , you can submit thesis extracts to conference just as freely as you would submit them to a journal . In both cases , the principle is the same : a thesis is not really a peer-reviewed publication , so your submission would still be the first peer-reviewed publication of the material . You must , however , cite your thesis and clearly acknowledge the source of the material as being adapted from your thesis .
end question
start question
Is it appropriate to ask colleagues opinions when reviewing a paper ?
I think that this practice violates the usual " confidentiality agreement " that presents ( formally , or customary ) in a review process . However , I would agree that this is a common practice , and for some people it is just hard to work on their own , although technically you are supposed to give your own opinion on a paper you review . I would say that if you really need to show the paper you review to someone else , you should check the following boxes : make sure the person understands that they are looking on a paper under review , and agrees to maintain the confidentiality , i.e. : not to talk about the ideas from the paper with someone else , not to produce own work based on these results until they are made public , etc. . The actual material paper , and the file , do not change hands : do not send the pdf manuscript to your colleagues , do not leave the printed paper with them for a while . Ask specific question ( s ) about the paper , for which you need second advice , not just a general opinion . Remember , that you should review the manuscript yourself . Definitely do not use the second opinion to shake some work off your shoulders and go .
I assume that there are often-if-not-always internal candidates for open positions , in academia and outside . There are always students looking for Ph.D. slots , Ph.D. students looking for postdoc positions , assistant and associate professors looking to move up to the next level . ( Same for non-faculty positions , but that seems OT . ) Sometimes the people responsible for the position may not even know yet about such internal candidates , because they may not yet have sent in their application . So the question probably rather is whether these internal candidates are already frontrunners . The professor may want his extremely productive Ph.D. student to continue in the postdoc slot but may need to advertise externally for some procedural reason . The department may want to continue a certain research specialization and plan on promoting the retiring professor 's assistant prof. In such a situation , external candidates will need to be very convincing to win . But : how often will the external candidate be told this ? If the external advertisement is legally required , the hiring people may even open themselves up to litigation if they openly tell an applicant that they are only soliciting outside applications as a fig leaf . On the other hand , the department may explicitly be searching for " new blood " , so internal candidates may actually have worse chances than external ones . Which , again , nobody will tell you ( or the internal candidate ) . Of course , it makes sense to tap your network and see whether the grapevine can tell you more than official channels . However , this kind of information can be unreliable . So if you hear from multiple sources that a given position will be filled internally , it may make sense to not make the effort . Thus : there will likely be internal candidates , but you will probably not know how good their chances are . If you are a good match for the position , go and apply . Do n't worry about internal candidates . This is one part of the hiring situation you ca n't control , just like the mood of your interviewers . Giving up on an application because there is an internal candidate will be counterproductive in the long run .
Authors usually do n't and can not sell directly copies of their books , and the price is decided by the publisher . Of course , an author has their draft copy in electronic format , but they might not even have the final electronic version as published . Authors typically receive a few courtesy copies of their books , but they have no access to other copies for free . My suggestion however is to borrow the book from your university library : that 's what library are for , after all . If the library does n't have a copy , depending on your position , you can : Suggest the library to buy a copy . Many university libraries buy books according to the suggestions of their faculties : if you can not do this directly , probably your adviser can . Ask your library if they can loan it from another library . In many countries there is a system of interlibrary loans , and sometimes it works even across different countries .
You can choose either of the options , but I would wait at least till I 've had quite a few accomplishment . However , some professors take a long time to write , so it would be good to approach them at least a few months before you start applying . Letter of recommendation can be collected and filed till the time you need them .
Well , first of all it 's good to check <URL> yourself . Here you will find that it says that ( i ) You shall be authorized to use the iBooks Store Products only for personal , noncommercial use . So , in this case it would n't even have been necessary to contact a university lawyer for the simple reason that the license is incredibly clear . In cases where it is n't you should at all times contact a university lawyer or contact the company in question itself , because in general IT and library personnel are not trained in legal matters ( I just dropped by the library to ask ) . Now a valid argument could be made that it 's the libraries responsibility to ask the university lawyer instead of you , but that 's up to the mechanisms within your institution , the core issue remaining that one should be consulted somewhere down the line . As to the question of negligence , I think ( as a non-lawyer ) you might be attributed negligence for not reading the license yourself , but not for not consulting a lawyer and just asking library/IT personnel . Still , it all depends on who was technically responsible for what and how the question towards the library people was phrased . Additionally for future reference in case people find this through Google , the license also says You acknowledge that you are purchasing the content made available through the iBooks Store Service ( the " iBooks Store Products " ) from the third-party provider of that iBooks Store Product ( the " Publisher " ) ; Apple is acting as agent for the Publisher in providing each such iBooks Store Product to you ; Apple is not a party to the transaction between you and the Publisher with respect to that iBooks Store Product ; and the Publisher of each iBooks Store Product reserves the right to enforce the terms of use relating to that iBooks Store Product . The Publisher of each iBooks Store Product is solely responsible for that iBooks Store Product , the content therein , any warranties to the extent that such warranties have not been disclaimed , and any claims that you or any other party may have relating to that iBooks Store Product or your use of that iBooks Store Product . So not only would you need permission from Apple , but also from the third party selling every single individual book .
I am currently the Graduate Coordinator of my department ( mathematics , UGA ) , and it is the season for me to get a lot of emails from would-be or might-be graduate students . Variations on " Will my application be competitive if I apply ? " are the most common question I 'm getting . It 's okay to ask this question in the sense that it does n't bother me at all and I will reply with something . On the other hand , my reply in most cases has been along the lines " Thank you for your interest in our program . I encourage you to apply . " I do n't think it 's in anyone 's best interests -- mine , my department 's , or the questioner 's -- for me to try to evaluate the degree of competitiveness of an application based on very incomplete , self-described information . I can ( and do ) address the required components of the application . If based on the information provided it seems like applying to a graduate ( usually PhD ) program at a top 50 math department may be a mismatch -- e.g. the applicant 's undergraduate major is in something other than mathematics ( or a closely related field with many mathematics classes taken ) -- then I might explore that a bit in the reply . But the bottom line is that the application process is relative and competitive , so more than likely we ca n't know how any given applicant will fare until we see all the applications : i.e. , until we go through the application process . ( However , if the self-described profile of the applicant sounds very strong , then I may mention that and encourage them more enthusiastically . ) A few final comments : 1 ) I can see that it is frustrating to apply , perhaps repeatedly , without knowing one 's chances . But in fact the state of applying for a bunch of things without knowing whether one will get them is a quite common one in later academia , so maybe it would be well to wrap your mind around it now . ( It is not a trivial thing to wrap one 's mind around . I was a really excellent high school student . When I took the PSATs I expected to become a National Merit Scholar , and I did . I applied to the University of Chicago not just because I expected to get admitted but because I expected to get a merit-based scholarship , and I did . I had enough of this kind of expected success that when it came to optional academic competitions / scholarships for which the outcome was in real doubt -- and especially when I did n't see success improving my life in any clear way -- I often did n't apply / show up / give my best effort , to the point of occasionally disappointing my mentors . Looking back at all this , I must say that I find my behavior quite rational . But it 's not the way that " grownup academia " works . ) I spend weeks every year writing a big national grant application ; thus far , I 've applied for the grant five times , gotten it once , not gotten it three times , and the latest time is pending and will be for many months . For this grant ( NSF ) , I do get feedback every year , which is helpful overall ( though sometimes frustrating in its particulars ) . On the other hand , I have applied twice for a smaller , privately funded grant ( Simons ) . When I did n't get it the first time and got no feedback about it , I was pretty taken aback and felt like complaining about it . But I thought it through : it was clearly to my advantage to suck it up and apply again . I did , and I got the grant the second time . That 's grownup academic life -- relatively successful grownup academic life , in fact . 2 ) There is a kernel of advice lurking in point 1 ) above . The best time to ask for feedback is soon after someone has carefully evaluated your application . If you 've applied to a program and did n't get in , you have every right to ask why and how you could improve your application . It sounds like you think that the reason you did n't get in were your GRE scores : is that what you were told ? If so , given that you improved on the thing they told you to improve upon : that sounds good , you should probably reapply . Finally , if you already spoke to someone at the program , they told you to improve your GRE scores , and now you have , then it makes considerably more sense to me to continue that conversation with the person who told you to improve your scores : given that your GRE scores have improved so-and-so much , do they think you should reapply ? In that situation you have a better chance of being told something substantive , I think . 3 ) My program is relatively small ( we generally enroll no more than 15 students per year ) . In quality , the distance from the very top programs and from " less than serious " PhD programs are each rather large . Once in a while we " steal " a student from a top twenty program , and sometimes for various reasons we take chances on students with inferior backgrounds . So our admissions process really plays out a bit differently every year . I could imagine that a program which is significantly larger , better or worse than ours might have less variation . I suppose I would nevertheless be surpr
This makes the letter of recommendation more personal and shows , you really want to support her . It makes a difference to all the other " this student has good grades and is always on time " - letters . So go ahead !
Thanks for clarifying . Do n't worry about the effect this would have on your future chances with this paper and this journal . If this pre-submission step fails , that is an indication that the classic approach would also fail . Either they feel it 's worth sending out for review or they do n't . But send the whole thing , not just the abstract . They need to be able to see the tables and figures . When you send the full long version to the editor , here 's a way to word the question : ask whether the work is appropriate for the journal . If you get an encouraging response , then you can start slashing , do a formal submission , and hope for the best ! ( Source : I have to give the credit to my spouse for this answer , who has about 250 publications . Edit : in case this helps -- in the field of experimental physics . )
I do n't see why it would be an issue . I 've been in a similar position in the past - recruiting at the university that I graduated from . On every trip , I made it a point to visit the department office to catch up with the department chair ( who was a professor when I was there ) , the academic advisers , and the professors . I never asked for a syllabus for courses , but I did make it a point to talk about changes to course content . I felt that doing this would help me stay closer to the department and college , but also would make me better at recruiting and interviewing since I would have a better understanding of what the students were learning in the classroom . I would encourage you to , somehow , stay in touch with changes to the classes that are core in the departments that you recruit from so you can be a better interviewer . I would also encourage you to share this information with HR and hiring managers so they know the capabilities . If there are new courses or new content , it could make the hiring process for interns or new graduates easier .
First of , you are absolutely asking the right question ( " what can I do to make a good relationship ? " ) . The answer depends a bit on the preferences of your advisor - what works for some may not work for others . Here are a few things you could think about : You say you work from home . This automatically decouples you from the lab and your advisor . Have you thought whether it would be possible to work in the lab ( if they have room for you ) for , for instance , two days a week ? This would also help make sure that you stay on the track your advisor wants your research to go , see also Nicholas ' answer . You say you work mainly with some of his PhD students . Try to bond and network with the PhD students you like , and impress them with your technical aptitude and motivation . Thinking back on my PhD advisor , the only master students he really remembered were the ones that his PhD students were constantly praising in their meetings with him . See if there is a chance to publish something ( with your advisor ) in the context of your master 's thesis . This not only shows motivation , but also has an immediate benefit for your advisor . During paper writing , you will also automatically have a number of meetings with your advisor . If you are interested in doing a PhD , indicate this to your advisor and ask for feedback . I have the impression that many professors take significantly more interest in master students that want to stay on the academic path than in those that are about to leave to industry .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
You must cite your source every time you use someone else 's intellectual contributions . A review article contributes curation of sources ( among other things ) as its intellectual content . If you use that intellectual content , you must cite the review paper ( in addition to the individual sources ) . Otherwise you are misleading the reader into believing that you 've done all that work ( reading very broadly in the literature , identifying the most relevant and useful sources ) yourself .
What a nice idea ! This professor mentored you in the early days of your studies , so he will be pleased and interested to hear that you are continuing to progress in his favorite topic . Also , consider that your article having been selected to be published is good news for those who work in that area at your institution . So he will be pleased in that regard as well . It 's important to learn to be courageous in this way . You will benefit greatly over the years from ' networking . ' Sharing your good news , by giving him a copy of your publication , is an example of networking . A nice touch would be to write a personal inscription on the copy you plan to give him , thanking him for the mentoring he gave you back in 20xx , and for sparking your first interest in the area . Something like that . The best gift of all is a sincere thank-you .
I think that this practice violates the usual " confidentiality agreement " that presents ( formally , or customary ) in a review process . However , I would agree that this is a common practice , and for some people it is just hard to work on their own , although technically you are supposed to give your own opinion on a paper you review . I would say that if you really need to show the paper you review to someone else , you should check the following boxes : make sure the person understands that they are looking on a paper under review , and agrees to maintain the confidentiality , i.e. : not to talk about the ideas from the paper with someone else , not to produce own work based on these results until they are made public , etc. . The actual material paper , and the file , do not change hands : do not send the pdf manuscript to your colleagues , do not leave the printed paper with them for a while . Ask specific question ( s ) about the paper , for which you need second advice , not just a general opinion . Remember , that you should review the manuscript yourself . Definitely do not use the second opinion to shake some work off your shoulders and go .
There are a few clear reasons to decline a review request , although in complete honesty , I 've never actually declined to review a paper yet , so these are all at least " in theory " for me . Some of them are one 's you 've mentioned , but there are some others : Conflict of interest . This one 's pretty clear , though with the way some reviews are handled - based on recommendations , closely related expertise , etc. what actually constitutes a conflict of interest can get a little vague . Lack of time . This is one that people seem to ignore or discount , but it 's a big one . If you ca n't give a paper the attention it deserves , or your review is going to be late ( predictably , not because of unforeseen things ) , then you should probably decline to review it . You 're not doing you , the authors , or the editor any favors by making them chase you down for months to get a review . Lack of expertise . If you read the methods section of a paper and your primary thought is " Huh ? " not because the paper is unclear , but because its far afield from your expertise , I 'd strongly consider contacting the editor for advice and asking not to be a reviewer . I would n't necessarily not be a reviewer due to a failure to find the paper sufficiently interesting . If your expertise is indeed appropriate and the work is not of sufficiently compelling interest , that is a review finding all its own . Additionally , one would hope that you can evaluate the scientific merit of things that - while you are capable of understanding - you might not find directly interesting . Whether or not it matters if its a conference or a paper likely depends on your field ( how important are conferences ? ) and the particular conference or paper . For example , I might make a special effort to " find the time " for a journal I submit to ( or would like to submit to ) or a conference I frequently attend , but might not for a journal or conference I 've never heard of .
I think it is OK but , before you attend that conference ; try to identify the professors who come to the discussion panels and sessions . Their names are normally written in the conferences ' websites . Then search their university homepage on the net and read some of their publications . This way you find two or three professors that their research interest is almost near yours . At the day of the conference , go to the sessions in which they present and politely after a short introduction about yourself ; ask whether they accept any PhD student or plan to accept one or not . I have seen that some MSc students go to the conferences and ask any professor they see without any previous search about their academic background . This behavior is so impolite . Sometimes , in the professors ' website , they have notifications about not accepting new PhD students . In this case , asking them for a PhD position is not acceptable and means that the person has never visited his website and probably he is not a good student at all . This way , they may not even listen what you are talking to about . If in some cases , there are some positions available and notified on their website , then go to that professor , show them your curriculum vitae and ask them for a position ; or talk to them about opportunities available for a PhD student . If you are interested in working with a professor but there are not any positions available ; then talk about doing some volunteer research under their supervision . However , it all depends on your research background and how much they find you suitable for working on a research topic . For instance , if you have a good programming background and they need a programmer in their research group , they may accept you to work on some parts of their research project ; and after a few months , if any PhD position become available , you will have a higher chance to compete for that position , because the professor knows you better as you have previously worked with him . Conferences are so valuable for the research students to become familiar with ongoing research projects and publications . In these conferences , you may talk to other researchers or PhD students and start a research project which is interesting for both of you . So , do not miss the chance to discuss and talk to the other people at the conference ; and not just focus on the professors . Besides to these , some companies may need a person like you who has done a research in the field of your interest . So talk to them . There may be some funding or grants available which you can apply for . I think that if you have your paper printed with your resume attached to it may help the professor to remember you and if any positions be available in future , he may contact you . Remember that not all the people have good memory to remember the others with detailed information about their resume and paper . People easily forget details about the past . If your resume be interesting for them and they forget you because they have no printed information about you , then you may miss a research position .
If you were asked to re-review an " unchanged " manuscript there are a number of things you can do ( e.g. , <URL> ) . The issue is that this is not the case . You are no longer part of the review process . The first thing you should do is STOP . The behavior you have engaged in so far has been completely unethical and a clear violation of every reviewer agreement I have ever seen . Your colleague should never have told you about the paper under review . You should not have mention that you reviewed a similar paper in the past . Neither of you should have mentioned authors or the title . The actual manuscripts should never have been shared and/or compared To a lesser extent , it is not even clear why you still have your copy of the manuscript . The Committee on Publication Ethics ( COPE ) provides <URL> which can be thought of as best practice . These include : respect the confidentiality of peer review and not reveal any details of a manuscript or its review , during or after the peer-review process , beyond those that are released by the journal not involve anyone else in the review of a manuscript , including junior researchers they are mentoring , without first obtaining permission from the journal ; the names of any individuals who have helped them with the review should be included with the returned review so that they are associated with the manuscript in the journal 's records and can also receive due credit for their efforts . keep all manuscript and review details confidential .
I 'm sure YMMV , but there is usually an Associate Editor ( a member of the Board to whom the paper was assigned ) that will make a recommendation to the Editor based on the reviews . The conversation you refer to usually takes place between the two of them . If an additional review is needed to decide , it can be requested . The rest of the Board is usually not involved ( they have their own assignments to worry about ) . As an author you may or may not know who the Associate Editor assigned to your paper is .
He either has personal issues , or he does n't focus on teaching . If he is having personal problems , it is wrong to approach him like a friend and expect him to give details . You are the student and he is the professor , and his personal issues are private and he will share them with someone close if he wants to . As an adult , he probably knows how the process works . Either way , the only thing that matters is whether he is doing his job properly . If you think he is not doing so , then you should give constructive criticizm , such as when you are in class and you do n't understand , you can say that for the last classes you are having difficulties understanding and putting it all together and suggest a method so that you can benefit better from his course . Or , you can send an e-mail about how certain things can be improved without sounding very negative .
This is not a good idea . You just have to read every Call for Papers carefully and submit according to the instructions . That being said , I 'm surprised that your program chair did n't ask you to resubmit with proper blinding instead of outright rejecting your paper . Submission errors happen , and authors are frequently given the opportunity to resubmit as long as the content is n't changed . The latter fact might be a little hard if the self-references were n't originally blinded , but I would think that most program chairs would have worked with you on this .
end question
start question
How is a part time research job ( from a University ) perceived in the academic job market ?
Well , it 's much better to have a part-time research position than no research position -- or more accurately , it 's much better to be doing some research than no research . I assume from your question you are either looking for a tenure-track/permanent faculty position at a research school or a research-oriented postdoc . If you want me to assess your chance of success , I ca n't accurately do that without knowing a lot about your situation -- in most areas I know of , the job market is n't great now , but certainly some fields/geographic regions/types of positions are less competitive than others . Basically , for a research-oriented position , you want to convince the people in charge of hiring that you 're going to do great research and contribute a lot to the research group you 're trying to be a part of . Generally this is easier the more research you 've done . However , if the amount and quality of research you 've done is impressive for someone doing other work part-time , that will probably taken into account -- which is maybe what you were really asking about . For instance , if two candidates have comparable research and one had a heaving teaching load at the time and one had a light load , the one with the higher teaching load looks more impressive . But if your research output is considerably less than the competition , it 's harder but not impossible to be viewed as a top candidate . Here outstanding references can help make up for this . Also , this is probably not a much of an issue if you are looking for postdoc positions .
Where do you want to work ? Research universities want people who do research , publish , go to conferences , and can tolerably teach , in that order . Small liberal arts colleges want people who can teach and who do enough research to keep up with the field . These are rough generalizations . There 's no right answer here .
A book or paper on writing is a good introduction but can usually not solve everything . Reading a book does not mean you can reproduce what it teaches , particularly with writing since it is something that needs lots of practise . One problem is that writing is a question of both knowing how to structure the science but also a question of building and formulating the text , the latter being a language issue . So it is usually relatively easy to teach students how the technical side works and provide explanations for why . Teaching students how to be concise and precise is another question and without lots of practise it is quite difficult to get anywhere . During a thesis much of the language issues are ironed out by constant revisions sugested by the advisor . I also point out to all my students that writing is a life-long learning process and thatit is never to late to develop and change your writing . However , I have some sources I fall back to : Katz , M.J. From research to manuscript . A guide to scientific writing . Springer Day , R.A. and Gastel , B. , How to write and publish a scientific paper . Cambridge The <URL> OWL is also very useful . For language ( English ) I have ( aside of Strunk &amp; White ) found Glasman-Deal , H. Science research writing for non-native speakers of English of use . There are of course lots of books around but all are definitely not good . A final gem is a short paper on abstracts Landes , K. , <URL> . Bulletin Of The American Association Of Petroleum Geologists . 50 ( 9 ) , 1992-1999 . Which provides an excellent description of the abstract .
You have two options that are IMHO equally good . Either cite them as one item with three links : [ 1 ] J. Doe : Foo bar ( I. , II. , and III . ) , 2015 , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . Or cite them as three items : [ 1 ] J. Doe : Foo bar , part I. , 2015 , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . [ 2 ] J. Doe : Foo bar , part II. , 2015 , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . [ 3 ] J. Doe : Foo bar , part III. , 2015 , <URL> [ 2015-04-17 ] . If they were three articles in an article series , they would be cited as three items for sure . But for blog posts , no canonical citation style is established ( or maybe some style mention it , but it 's not a universally accepted thing ) ; this means that any style that contains the relevant information is OK . As for me personally , I would probably stick to the second variant , unless you commonly cite multiple items with one number ( some chemists and engineers do this ) .
If you go to top schools overseas , you should be fine . You can always explain your decision by saying that you needed to travel , help developing countries , explore opportunities . In my field , many Chinese schools have very high-tech requirements in their labs ! My old school ( not in China ) has unlimited funding ! So , research wise , it might be a good idea to travel for a year or two to establish a good working relationship with labs and schools . Many of the professors ( engineering ) I know will go to the Gulf region and work in Dubai/Kuwait for a sabbatical year or even as a visiting professor ( 1-3 years ) because of the good pay ( can get up to 140-160k ) , benefits ( paid housing , car , air tickets , schooling etc ) , no taxes , less stress ( no need to write proposals or get funding ) . As long as you keep your contacts in the US/Europe " happy " , you should be fine . I know some professors will hold international conferences and put their colleagues on committees ! I know some will hold 1-2 days seminars/workshops and invite their previous department chair as a keynote speaker or lecturer for crash-courses ( they make easy money out of this ) .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
Even if a department loves you , it 's unlikely they 'll show any overt signs ( especially in an official capacity ) because they want to maintain a reasonable negotiating position . But individual faculty are not always " with the program " . For example , it 's happened to me that someone said ( during an interview ) " I really like your profile and will be making a strong case to make you an offer " . But while this might be flattering , it also depends on how much power that individual has over final decisions .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
Is there a general way to transition to research after undergraduate study Usually the general way to transition to research is to do research under the supervision of an experienced researcher . ( Either within the context of graduate school , or outside it . ) are there any particular mental tools that I should acquire that would be in my best interest for research Yes , there are many , and they vary by discipline . You would learn what tools you need for your particular research and develop those tools by conducting research under supervision of someone more experienced in doing research in your field .
In general , " Universitetslektor " is the closest the Swedish system has to an " associate professor " in the US system , and is close to a " lecturer " in the British system . The more junior rank would be " Biträdande lektor " , and the more senior " Professor " . There are some subtleties in play here though ; most importantly for the linked position is the phrase " tidsbegränsade anställningar " . This means that the position is for a limited time only -- they are hiring from March to December , supposedly to fill an urgent teaching need . The limit in time signals several things . One of them is that it is likely to be important to shoulder the teaching required -- it might , depending on the department and their situation , for instance be difficult to buy out teaching time with research funds . Another is that it comes with none of the tenure guarantees usual " lektorat " provides . Since the position is time-limited , it will evaporate at the end of the time , to be replaced with a different position if the department finds the funds to hire again . The hierarchy to figure out how the ranks work would be something like : Tidsbegränsad anställning : Time-limited appointment . Not subject to tenure-like employment protection . Adjunkt : Adjunct teacher . Needs not have a doctorate . Fills a teaching need . Biträdande lektor : Similar to tenure track ; usually time-limited to 4-6 years , at the end of which a review takes place deciding whether to upgrade the position to ... Lektor : The most common of Swedish University teaching/research positions . Obligated to teach , but can usually trade teaching time against research grant money . At every University I have ever interacted with , these come with an obligation for a certain amount of pedagogical qualifications -- and if you are hired without pedagogical coursework in your CV , you may have to spend large swathes of your first year studying higher education pedagogy . Professor : Similar to Professor in the UK or Full or even Named professorships in the US . It used to be very rare -- one or two per field was n't uncomomon ; but since 1999 , Professor is a possible target for promotion from Lektor , which increases the numbers . Before the 1999 reform , a Professor could not be fired , even under usual Swedish employment protection rules . In summary : " Universitetslektor " is an essentially tenured position . They all come with heavy-looking teaching loads , but it is common in Sweden to reduce teaching loads with grant money . " Tidsbegränsad anställning " is a non-tenured and likely to be teaching-heavy position .
I would put the logo of the funding agency ( NSF , NASA , etc. ) and the logo of the university where you are doing this research . If your home university is n't involved in any way , then you 're probably fine excluding it .
The division of intellectual property rights will be explicitly specified in every research contract negotiated by competent personnel , no matter who the funder is . In my experience , I have seen that the typical arrangements fall into five rough categories along a spectrum of control : The researcher 's organization retains all IP rights . The researcher 's organization retains all IP rights , but automatically grants a non-exclusive license to the funding organization . The researcher 's organization retains all IP rights , but the funding organization has an option to exclusively license all IP rights . The researcher 's organization transfers all IP rights to the funding organization , but retains an automatic license to the IP . The researcher 's organization transfers all IP rights to the funding organization . Research contracts also often divide a project into different areas that mix and match these rights . For example , the researcher 's organization might have non-exclusive licensing ( # 2 ) for all basic research work , but transfer all rights for a planned prototype ( # 5 ) to the funding organization . Corporately funded research contracts tend to fall anywhere along the spectrum from # 2 to # 5 , depending on the nature of the research and the motivation for the contract . More basic research tends to be viewed as " pre-competitive , " and companies funding such research will generally be large and with a long view and happy to grant liberal rights , since they are more concerned with reshaping their strategic landscape ( e.g. , extending <URL> ) and trust their ability to build internally off of basic research breakthroughs . More applied research and research funded by smaller companies tends to be more immediately relevant to competitive advantage : it tends to have much more tightly restricted IP rights and at its most applied shades into consulting .
I think it depends in large part on what the research is . Some fields lend themselves more readily to real-life application , while others like , say , theoretical physics , are a long way from being used by industry . It also depends on the researcher . I am a firm believer in the " <URL> " principle ( disclosure : the man who wrote that is my advisor ) . The premise of the Last Research Mile is that a big part of doing research is taking it all the way through to implementation . Doing the early research provides a good start , but lots of important lessons , including research lessons , are learned as the idea is carried through to execution . I 'm studying in an Information Systems program , and so my research is in business , computers , and people . While it would be easy to do the basic research and move on to another topic , I think it is important to continue to push and test the idea even in its implementation phases . As a result of following the Last Research Mile principle , my advisor has created at least one company that sells the product of decades of his research . Many lessons were learned , and many publications resulted because of those lessons throughout the whole process .
I do n't know how mathjob distributes candidates ' applications to schools , but I doubt anyone cares . I put all applications I get for my job postings into a folder in no particular order and never look at the order of application . Someone has to be first . Go ahead ! Apply away !
This will heavily depend on the specific country you are talking about . We have a so-called <URL> that aims at encouraging " entrepreneurship and innovation by identifying , supporting and providing guidance for potential high-tech startups and spin-off companies originating at TU/e . " Specifically , they guide researchers along the entire process : from checking whether the idea can be patented to actually establishing a startup / spin-off company . With respect to copyright : lion 's share of our research is being published so there can be no problems for companies to use the ideas presented in scientific papers . Using unpublished results might be more tricky but I can imagine that the university will agree to formally keep copyright and allow the company to benefit from it under some restricted conditions .
I should not contact my network about potential jobs at any particular university because I would sound too " desperate " . Oh , please . Your chair probably remembers the Good Old Days when you could submit three applications with your one publication " in progress " and get two interviews and four offers . Yes , of course you should contact people in your professional network . The academic job search is no time for shyness or modesty . You need to sell yourself . You need other people to sell you . Ask them if their departments are planning to hire , and if so , what their hiring priorities are . ( And no , you can not get this information from the text of their ad . ) Ask some of them to write recommendation letters on your behalf . At least in computer science , you must have at least one reference letter , preferrably more , from someone who is not from your home institution and not a coauthor , but who can still write in detail about the quality , depth , originality , and impact of your work . Congratulations , you 've cultivated the perfect environment to find such people . Write them to let them know you 've applied , and ask them ( directly , shamelessly ) to put in a good word with their hiring committee . You will not get an offer from any department , and you may not even get an interview , without a local champion inside that department ; the champion does n't have to know you personally , but it certainly helps . ( Of course , a better way to cultivate a champion is to knock your interview out of the park . ) Always thank people for any information or help , even if they just say " Sorry , we 're not hiring in your field this year . " or " Good luck ! "
Is there any research on the question : how common is academic theft , really ? Such as surveys of people having experienced ( or committed ! ) such theft according to an appropriate definition , possibly compared to peoples perception as to the risks . See the related articles : De Vries , Raymond , Melissa S. Anderson , and Brian C. Martinson . " <URL> " Journal of empirical research on human research ethics : JERHRE 1.1 ( 2006 ) : 43 . and Martinson , Brian C. , Melissa S. Anderson , and Raymond De Vries . " <URL> " Nature 435.7043 ( 2005 ) : 737-738 . Among a sample of 3,247 NIH-funded scientists in the United States , asked about the behavior " Using another 's ideas without permission or giving due credit " : 1.4 % said they themselves have engaged in this behavior within the last three years 45.7 % agreed with the statement , " I have observed or had other direct evidence of this behavior among my professional colleagues including postdoctoral associates , within the last three years . " Please read the article for methodology , limitations , etc. .
Is there any similar service for Europe ? Unfortunately the answer to this question is no . The closest equivalent , at least in the German-speaking area , is <URL> . I am not aware of a similarly complete portal for the rest of Europe . Additionally , the most complete list for the German-speaking area is definitely the newsletter sent out monthly by the <URL> ( essentially the union of German university teachers ) . This list has rather official character and is pretty much complete for the area . However , you need to be a member to receive this newsletter , and one can only become a member by having been employed in an academic post at a German university . ( or you know a member and ask him to forward you the newsletter each month )
I would say co-first author : First authorship is more important : if a professor both led the work and made the biggest contribution to the paper , they will generally choose first authorship rather than last authorship . Early in your career , making a big contribution to the research itself is likely to be most important , and first authorship shows that . The " last author " signifying the leader of the work is less widespread ( <URL> ) . Even in fields that use this convention , it is not always used . Thus , your last authorship might not mean as much . Especially if someone knows you are not a professor leading your own lab , they might not give you much credit for this . " co-first authorship " is a clear idea : you are one of two people who equally made the largest contributions to the work . But " co-last authorship " is not so clear . What does it mean ? Especially if the other last author is the professor who runs the lab ? It 's not clear what this would say about your contribution . Of course this is referring to fields where authorship ranking by contribution is used ; this is n't universal .
Write your affiliation similar to how you 'll do it with a university . First Last [ Designation , ] Dept. , Institution If your hospital does not split members into departments , then Dept. part can be omitted . Examples : Aaron Stone Neurosurgeon , XYZ Clinic Cathy Miller Researcher , Cancer Research Lab , BCD Hospital Greg Thompson Cryogenics , GHI Health Institute Note that it is not always necessary to include your designation ( job description ) , unless the publisher asks for it .
end question
start question
How should I interpret " English is poor " review when I used a language check service before submission ?
There are several possibilities here , although generally they all have the same solution . The English is poor or incorrect and the company did not check it well It is possible that the company that checked your article did a bad job . This happens . Maybe the service did not have a native English speaker check your article . Maybe they had a bad day . Maybe they do n't provide good service , and you just got lucky on previous times . It 's hard to say . The English is grammatical , but not idiomatic It is possible that the company that checked your article fixed all the grammatical mistakes , but that there are still some phrasings which are not idiomatic or particularly natural . This is essentially a function of how detailed the corrections were . For example , here is the first paragraph of your post : Recently I had submitted a Manuscript to an International Journal . Though it is accepted as a Minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . First reviewer has commented that the Paper is well written , still needs some English improvements . Second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is required . There are some small grammatical errors , and I can correct them as follows ( in bold ) : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . While this paragraph is now grammatically correct , it still does not feel like it was written by a native speaker , and the way some words are used is a little odd . ( E.g. using though and but in the second sentence ; you really only need one of them . ) So , a more thorough checking would suggest edits like the following : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a Minor revision pending minor revisions , but I am worried about the reviewers 's comments . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . The checking service could have done the first step ( making it grammatically correct ) without following through on the second step ( making it idiomatic ) . The second step is much harder , of course , as it requires knowledge of what style is appropriate for your field ( and for the journal you are writing for ) , and , to some extent , it requires technical knowledge of whatever you 're writing about . The English is fine , the reviewer is just being picky Academic articles are complex and often involve detailed theoretical or technical discussion . At times , they can be hard to follow . Sometimes this complexity is interpreted as poor language skills , and reviewers complain . I know more than one native English speaker who has received reviews asking them to check their article with a native speaker . In essence , this criticism relates to how the content is presented rather than linguistic concerns like grammaticality or phrasing . The solution It is not easily possible for you to determine right now which of the above scenarios has happened . However , a big help would be for you to show the manuscript to a trusted colleague who is a native speaker of English , and ask them how it reads . If the English is really atrocious , then you know you have a problem with the checking service ; if there are some unusual phrases but it 's otherwise fine , then you know the problem is that it 's occasionally un-idiomatic ; and if there are no obvious problems , then it 's probably just an issue of reviewer interpretation . The other step you should take is to re-read your manuscript and attempt to make complex exposition more clear . ( This is a step I advise everyone to do at basically every stage of the writing process ... ) This will help your article in the case that the English was fine but the reviewer was just confused . Finally , breathe and relax . Your article was accepted , congratulations ! Clearly the reviewers and the editor thought that the scientific content was sufficient to merit publication .
Not everything on your CV needs to be verifiable via an Internet link . I have many items on my CV that would require some interaction with a human to verify : degrees I 've earned , summer research students I 've mentored , seminar talks I 've given , classes I 've taught , etc. . As long as you can , on demand , provide contact information for someone who can confirm your presentation ( e.g. conference organizer ) , I do n't see why this is a concern . If you want to provide a link to the non-English conference program , go ahead ; someone who is sufficiently motivated can surely get it translated . ( I 'm sure this goes without saying , but since I 've seen a shocking number of CVs that say " Presented at Conference X " without further information I 'll say it anyways : you must include the full details of each presentation , including its title , co-authors if there were any , full name of conference , date , and city . )
Between name changes , use names , transliteration , etc. , this is a rather common situation , and copyright forms are generally well designed to allow graceful handling of it . Most copyright forms that I have encountered include two separate places where you put a name : A list of the authors , in which you should write all of the names exactly as they appear on the paper . A signature line , in which an authorized signer ( in this case , yourself ) should place their usual signature , in the same form that you use it for other legal documents . There is no actual requirement that these names be identical , just that the authorized signer take legal responsibility for the assertions of the document , including asserting that the list of author names is appropriate . In fact , for some authors , their organization may not allow the author to be the person who signs the document ! Thus , if you write your name on the paper as " author " and you write your legal name for signature , this should be fine and appropriate . If , somehow , you encounter a form that does not make the distinction between the two names , then I would say it is highly likely that the organization issuing the form must be rather sloppy with regards to handling copyright in any case , and you should not worry about it .
The first thing to do is to check if the university has any recommendations about this . If none exist , then the second aspect is to consider if the university is well known under one or another form of the name . The purpose of providing an affiliation and proper address is for the sake of communication . Before e-mail and Internet , most correspondence went by post so a proper address was very important . Now e-mail is used , which means the affiliation is mostly to identify the author and the author 's affiliation . Web sites are usually bilingual so finding the university or department is possible in both English and the native language . Most will probably use the English translation because it makes most sense if the remainder of the paper is in English . A point to make is that if one uses the native language for affiliation etc. then problems will arise for those not familiar with , for example , Cyrillic , Chinese or Japanese . So it seems the best way to communicate affiliation/address is to use English translations that are hopefully officially accepted by the university .
As Aleksandar says , you do need to learn the terminology in order to search effectively for articles . And in fact , you 'll need to know the terminology in order to understand those articles . When I 'm exploring a new subject area , I do n't start with the journal articles ; I start with books , web tutorials , etc. , to get the basics . For learning the terminology , I also suggest reading the relevant articles in Wikipedia or Scholarpedia . They will also have links to journal articles ; get hold of those articles and see what keywords they use . Anytime you find a useful article , note the keywords , and what journal it 's in . This will help you find other useful articles , and places where you might submit your own articles in future . Also , your college librarian may be able to help you figure out some of the keywords to use . They usually know a little about a wide variety of topics , at least enough to have some ideas of what search terms might be useful . If you set up an appointment , they may be able to spend some time with you , helping you find some sample articles and working with you to figure out a good search strategy .
As Mikael said , copying and pasting from a textbook ( or any other source ) , unless it 's properly quoted and cited , is plagiarism . Now , it 's possible that this varies a bit between fields and between cultures , but generally speaking , plagiarism is one of the most serious academic offenses , probably a step below outright fabrication of results . Well-respected tenured professors at major universities have lost their jobs and had their careers destroyed by a single instance of plagiarism . The point is , this is a very big no-no and you should treat it accordingly . You should definitely notify the editor , and see how they would like you to deal with it . I do n't know exactly how that process works , whether the editor will just handle the paper themselves and let you know that your review will no longer be necessary , or whether they 'll ask you to finish your review anyway and state your objections in it . In the latter case , I would write an unequivocal recommendation against publishing the paper because of the plagiarism . Personally , I would be inclined not to even look at the scientific content of any such paper , although that may not work out in practice . But anyway , just pointing out the plagiarized parts and recommending against publication , in and of itself , is not mean . Just do n't get carried away and start attacking the author . You could apply the same principle that is used at Stack Exchange , namely that it 's about the behavior , not the person . If you put aside the plagiarism , there is also the issue of sloppy English that you mentioned . In my experience , ( nearly ? ) all reputable journals require papers to use proper spelling and grammar for standard English , or something reasonably close to it . Usually , the instructions for authors will advise non-native speakers of English to get a native speaker to check the paper for grammatical errors before submission . So it 's reasonable for you to point out any such errors that you come across . Now , grammatical errors do n't have to condemn a paper to oblivion the way plagiarism might , but if the grammar is bad enough , I would think it reasonable to recommend against publication in its current state . If the underlying ideas are sound , and otherwise qualified for publication , then you could recommend that the authors edit the paper to improve the grammar and resubmit it .
That 's a tricky question . I will try to give you my humble advice . First , document every step and be sure that your statements are true . If you have some suspicion , you can also present that , but state that you only have such suspicion . Second , write again to the editor telling him/her that in good faith you believe the study is fabricated , and it will undermine the journal credibility . If you do that after publication , the damage to the scholarly literature will be even larger . Third , tell the editor your plan . For instance , you can tell him/her that if he does not act swiftly within 30 days , you will inform , without divulging too much details , of the situation , his/her insitution , as well as the authors ' institutions and the publisher . Fourth , if the above does not work ( it should ) , then proceed and be ready to defend thoroughly your argument .
As a disclaimer , I have not been in this exact situation : in my field ( mathematics ) there are few conference papers , and the number of journals with strict length requirements is small enough that I have never reviewed a paper which violated the requirements . Nevertheless : In my experience it is customary in academic and professional contexts that if you submit something that does not adhere to the rules of submission , then you should expect that your submission will be rejected for that reason alone . Now it may be the case that rather than definitively rejecting your submission you are told , " Hey , please fix X so that your submission can be considered " ... and it may not . There is much talk of grant applications that are rejected because something in the fine print of the submission rules was not followed . In your case , you have noticed that one of the submission requirements has been violated , apparently in a nontrivial way ( " by more than 10 % " ) . In my opinion your clearest ethical obligation is to convey this knowledge to the editors . It is really unfair if the requirement gets completely ignored and the paper gets published anyway whereas some other authors are either getting dinged for not following the same rules or are working much harder ( and perhaps , trading on the quality of their paper ) in order to follow them . So I think your first step should be to point this out to the editors . If you like , you can convey your willingness to look at a new version in a timely manner . You could even say that you are reading the version that you already have and are willing to work on a report under the assumption that the authors will later submit a version which is essentially the same but meets the length requirements . But I think that 's about as far as you can go . If the submission really is permanently rejected based on the length then the authors will resubmit to another conference/journal and they 'll get their feedback at that time ( possibly even from you ! ) . Viewing the fact that you received the paper and are not at this time writing a report on it to the authors as some kind of disservice to them is probably the wrong way to view it : this is really part of the usual business of academic refereeing . Added : As long as you point out the failure to meet the length requirement , I certainly see no ethical problem with passing on whatever evaluation of the paper you want . In fact , when communicating with the editors if you think that the paper is otherwise very strong then it would be useful to say that . However , it seems to me that it is possible that the editors might decide that since the length requirements have been violated the paper will be rejected and the authors will not receive a referee report . Thus your careful comments are not guaranteed to be conveyed to the authors . This seems like a good argument for checking in with the editors before writing a full-blown report .
There are two practical purposes to scholarly citations : acknowledging scientific contribution of others , the borrowing of ideas ( mainly ) and content ( sometimes , in the form of quotes ) helping people find relevant content if they want to read it bookkeeping , for scientometric/bibliometric purposes In your particular case , you can not fulfill # 2 and # 3 , because your friend 's slides are not available for others to read , and even if they were , random documents on the internet are not really used for bibliometric purposes . So , you want a solution that will achieve # 1 , i.e. make sure his contributions are recognized by people who will read your slides . To do so , you do n't need to give your citation any specific format . I suggest you simply write , at the bottom of slides you borrowed from him : Slide courtesy of John Doe or Slide modified from John Doe , with permission In addition , you can thank him in your acknowledgements at the end of your talk .
You have two different questions here . Should I decide the " suitable journal " for submission based on the papers in references ? " Yes you should " seems overly strong , but " yes , this is a decent strategy " as a starting point to figuring out where you might want to send the paper . You should look at other factors like how well that journal is rated/cited and respected by people in your field ( as a starting point to understanding this , ask your advisor ) . Is it necessary to cite papers from the particular journal for which I am going to submit my paper ? Not strictly " necessary " but a very good idea . What 's important is that you show how your paper fits in to the work that already exists in the specific field you 're contributing to . Probably , some of that work is in the same venue , so you should cite that work and show how yours is related to it . Some reviewers may feel more at ease if they see citations to the same venue and are convinced you 've described how your paper is related to the cited works . You should at least be checking your target venue for papers related to yours , so that you are n't seen to be missing on-topic work in that field in that venue , which reviewers may be more likely to be aware of and thinking of as they read your work . Be aware that when you 're describing those prior papers in the field and the gap that leaves , which your paper fills , that you do so respectfully ; the authors of those papers ( even if the papers are not in the same venue ) may be your reviewers . You should also look at papers in that journal and see how they are structured ( in addition to looking at how they are formatted ) . Is there a particular set of section headings that most or all papers in that journal have ? Are they typically in the same order ? Is there a common series of points that are made , especially in introduction sections ? If so , give your paper the same sections and sequencing , so that you overcome the antibodies that might reject it thinking " this just does n't look/feel/read like something that gets published here . " For formatting , follow the journal 's style guide/templates .
Send an email to the conference program chair right away and ask . The better conferences will be honest with you , either way . The answer could be no revision , but then you could move on . These mistakes happen .
There are several possibilities here , although generally they all have the same solution . The English is poor or incorrect and the company did not check it well It is possible that the company that checked your article did a bad job . This happens . Maybe the service did not have a native English speaker check your article . Maybe they had a bad day . Maybe they do n't provide good service , and you just got lucky on previous times . It 's hard to say . The English is grammatical , but not idiomatic It is possible that the company that checked your article fixed all the grammatical mistakes , but that there are still some phrasings which are not idiomatic or particularly natural . This is essentially a function of how detailed the corrections were . For example , here is the first paragraph of your post : Recently I had submitted a Manuscript to an International Journal . Though it is accepted as a Minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . First reviewer has commented that the Paper is well written , still needs some English improvements . Second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is required . There are some small grammatical errors , and I can correct them as follows ( in bold ) : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . While this paragraph is now grammatically correct , it still does not feel like it was written by a native speaker , and the way some words are used is a little odd . ( E.g. using though and but in the second sentence ; you really only need one of them . ) So , a more thorough checking would suggest edits like the following : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a Minor revision pending minor revisions , but I am worried about the reviewers 's comments . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . The checking service could have done the first step ( making it grammatically correct ) without following through on the second step ( making it idiomatic ) . The second step is much harder , of course , as it requires knowledge of what style is appropriate for your field ( and for the journal you are writing for ) , and , to some extent , it requires technical knowledge of whatever you 're writing about . The English is fine , the reviewer is just being picky Academic articles are complex and often involve detailed theoretical or technical discussion . At times , they can be hard to follow . Sometimes this complexity is interpreted as poor language skills , and reviewers complain . I know more than one native English speaker who has received reviews asking them to check their article with a native speaker . In essence , this criticism relates to how the content is presented rather than linguistic concerns like grammaticality or phrasing . The solution It is not easily possible for you to determine right now which of the above scenarios has happened . However , a big help would be for you to show the manuscript to a trusted colleague who is a native speaker of English , and ask them how it reads . If the English is really atrocious , then you know you have a problem with the checking service ; if there are some unusual phrases but it 's otherwise fine , then you know the problem is that it 's occasionally un-idiomatic ; and if there are no obvious problems , then it 's probably just an issue of reviewer interpretation . The other step you should take is to re-read your manuscript and attempt to make complex exposition more clear . ( This is a step I advise everyone to do at basically every stage of the writing process ... ) This will help your article in the case that the English was fine but the reviewer was just confused . Finally , breathe and relax . Your article was accepted , congratulations ! Clearly the reviewers and the editor thought that the scientific content was sufficient to merit publication .
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
The extent of a re-review depends on what has been done with the manuscript ( MS ) . If the first review round yielded questions and comments that can be fixed but may require checking to make sure the implementation of the comments are correct , then , as you say , you will not have to do a full-blown re-review . If , on the other hand , the revisions are such that the MS has been substantially modified , perhaps with new parts added , new data included , etc. the situation is different . Then the paper is so modified it is in some way more of a new MS than just revised and , hence in need of a new throrough review . So in my opinion , the need of re-review depends on the severity of the required changes . How you decide depends on your opinion of the new paper . If an editor feels a MS is in need of so substantial revisions it becomes a new MS , then it is often rejected with a note about re-submission after work has been done . So in the end it is your view of the severity or magnitude of necessary changes that largely determines how much should be done . In some cases authors may disagree with a comment you feel strongly about and in such cases it may be necessary to enforce the view through more careful and convincing scrutiny . EDIT : I should perhaps add that a second or more reviewers may have given other comments that influence your review . This means parts of the MS can be changed in ways you have not suggested so although a new detalied re-review may not be necessary a careful read through and comparison with the old may be in order . Sometimes authors ( we ) can use conflicting reviews to argue against one or the other .
In order to cite a programming language , a possible way is to cite the reference manual , including the version of the language you use ( your approach might no longer work with the version of Python available in 20 years ... ) . For instance , you can have a citation like : Python Software Foundation . Python Language Reference , version 2.7 . Available at <URL> According to <URL> , you can also cite the original CWI TR : " G. van Rossum , Python tutorial , Technical Report CS-R9526 , Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica ( CWI ) , Amsterdam , May 1995 . "
If you mean " is it outrageous to ask a librarian to collect research papers for you , " then no , it 's not outrageous ; some librarians do that , though rarely the librarians working in public libraries . For most university students ( at least in the US . You 're in Indonesia so the system may vary , ) they go to their school libraries because the collections are much closer to their fields of study . The librarians are also more proficient in handling academics-related questions . If you do have an affiliated university , I 'll check with the librarians there first . If you do n't have one , then I 'll next try to contact some librarians of state-funded or nationally funded universities ( especially if you are a tax payer . ) Most of these public schools open their libraries or provide limited consultation to the public . It would also be valuable to ask if they have any kind of borrower program or consortium you can join : later you may need to download a lot of journal articles and having an access to their server can save you a lot of money . If both of these are no goes , then you can try the public libraries . However , the librarians may not be available to fetch articles for you . Instead , you may ask them for resources ( pamphlet , booklet , website ) on how to perform a literature search ( I 'm assuming literature , but they can also show you other curated forms such as microfilm , legal archive , etc. ) Most public libraries do not subscribe highly professional/specialized journals due to the high price , so realize that your scope can be limited somewhat . If all of these yield no results . I 'd suggest at least pay a graduate students or instructor for 2-3 hours to give you a general rundown/tutorial . As I have said , most librarians will not be able to do the search for you . And it 's better for you , as the researcher , to have the first hand experience and control of the process . At the very least , try ask the librarians about database you should search , how to select keywords , how to export and keep results , what bibliography software is available , reference books on writing literature review etc. . Lastly , the quality of help you are going to get is proportional to the clarity of your vision about the work . The more concrete you can describe your work , the easier for them . Things you should consider are as follows : What is the topic ? What is ( are ) the main question ( s ) you want to answer ? -- in this part , be very explicit about time , location , and other important qualifier ( think <URL> ) How far back in time do you need to go ? What is the purpose of the document ? E.g. For a blog , for a grant proposal , or for an assignment ?
If you are using simply using the logos in place of the company name , there is no reason to cite them since you would not cite a company name . If you are intending on publishing the work , the publisher may want to see a signed release from the copyright and/or trademark holder .
Short answer It varies . Ask your advisor ! According to my advisor ( Social Sciences , using APA style manual ) , ' the author ' is always correct , and the use of ' I ' hurts the eyes and the sensibilities ! Although many style guides now permit the use of ' I ' , especially for a single-author paper , you will find that many academics have been taught to avoid ' I ' . They may express strong dislike for the use of ' I ' , and your work may subtly and unconsciously be considered ' less good ' because of your pronoun use . ' The author ' is always considered correct . The bigger problem is probably learning how to write fluidly and concisely with this construction . Vary your sentence structure , and absolutely do NOT begin every other sentence with ' the author found/did/decided ' !
Yes , reviewing papers is an integral part of your job now , and a very beneficial one at that ! It 's true that the first papers you will review will take you quite a bit of time , but it 's a sound investment ( unless you consider dropping out of academia next month ) . You 'll improve your reading and ability to read between the lines . It will help you gain a wider view of what others are doing in your field , because it will force you to really go through the paper in depth , not just skim over it as we are so often forced to do when a paper is not at the core of our own research . Moreover , it will give you invaluable experience when you write your next papers , because you will be able to put yourself in the reviewer 's shoes ! You will see better what could be problematic for a referee in the presentation of your work . As for whether you should list it on your CV : <URL>
Being certain that you quote correctly is pretty straight-forward ( if it 's not your words , use quotes ) , but learning to paraphrase well is difficult for some people . I think this may be more often the case for those who are not native English speakers : my observation may be less about language than about differences in educational culture . For a person who does n't have confidence that they are paraphrasing sufficiently differently for typical scientific writing standards , I could see that running through a plagiarism checker might be useful as an educational tool . Much more effectively , however , such a person might want to work with a trustworthy writing service ( most American universities provide something of this sort free to their students ) to get an independent evaluation of the quality of their paraphrasing and help in improving it if needed . Once you have enough experience to be confident in your ability to paraphrase , however , I would not bother to do any sort of double-check unless you have an extremely nervous personality and it will help you to sleep at night .
end question
start question
Emailing exams : is it okay by FERPA ?
It is not a FERPA violation per se , but it might be a violation of university policy which is put in place to guarantee the privacy of student records . This is analogous to the law corresponding to the IRB requirement -- the US government does n't say what the rule and procedure must be , just what the purpose is and that there must be rules and procedures . The main consideration is that student records ca n't be " shared " with unauthorized parties , the the university has an obligation to be sure that only authorized parties receive access to these records . My institution classifies all electronic communication with students as " student records " , and requires all student records to be viewed and stored only on official university computers on campus , encrypted , and sent to an official campus email address . Technically , this means that if a student emails me a question , I ca n't reply until I 'm on campus using an authorized university computer , and my response has to be encrypted .
In most institutes Masters by Research means they had to take the core courses usual Master students are offered but they also produce a compulsory Masters thesis in order to earn their degree . However , I have that seen in most cases that they have to take lesser number of electives so that they have more time for research . Edit : Also see here : <URL>
Your approach to asking -- " this is what I have tried , I am stuck here ... can you point out how I can continue ? " -- is the right one . Without knowing how difficult of a problem you have gotten stuck on , and how often you ask for help , it is very hard for us to judge how your advisor will interpret your request . That said , in general I very much appreciate it when my graduate students and postdocs let me know when they get stuck on some step of a research project . My students and I are collaborators after all , and if I can help them get going again , or alternatively if I can recognize that we 've been heading down a dead-end , this is very much to everyone 's benefit . Of course , they should not be coming to me with trivial problems : " I ca n't get this expression to format properly in LaTeX " or " I do n't know how to compute the Jacobian matrix for this function " , nor would I want to get these requests on a daily basis . But if a competent student has made a serious effort to solve a problem and is still stuck , I 'd like to know about it and to help if at all possible .
Answering the more general question , sure . A polite email will never hurt you , the worst case scenario is that they are too busy to reply , or that their contact information is no longer valid . The best possible outcome , you get a nice explanation , an interesting conversation , and perhaps a couple of anecdotes about the research . Just make sure that question is : Relevant to the research . Obviously , I do n't email Linus Torvalds every time my linux computer does n't boot . The information is not easy or obvious to find . Just liquid refrigeration of computer components does n't really meet any criteria , but you could ask for the specifics . Just make sure to understand the basics first , if your question looks " dumb " , it will probably get lower priority . Reading a paper for my own research , I found a somewhat old paper ( about 10 years ) explaining the analysis of some data . One of the key points is setting the noise threshold , that they set as the maximum of the histogram . The thing is that in my data the maximum of the histogram was at 0 , following a very good power law . In short : the procedure would be invalid for my data ; but actually irrelevant for me . I commented it with my advisor and he said that I should email the author about it , and that it will probably start an interesting conversation . ( I have n't gotten to it yet , but my bet is that modern instruments are quite different ) .
Speaking as a professor , I typically hold on to them for a year or so just in case any student wishes to see them . That said , I can remember this happening only once in about 5000 students taught . When I was in college , we had the option of providing self-addressed stamped envelopes in which our final exams could be returned to us . Over half of the students availed themselves of this option . I do not believe that my university has any formal policy , though they could have one that I am unaware of . It would seem foolish for a professor to get rid of the exams before the students have had an opportunity to see their grades and respond if something seems out of line .
Consulting the <URL> reveals that one of their conferences , CATA , is ranked C. I did not check any others . Indicators that the conferences are not good include : The conference is extremely broad . CATA covers topics including Algorithms , Programming Languages , and Multimedia . The conference is in an exotic location ( e.g. Hawaii ) . People involved in the conference are not the leaders in their field . Conference is not well established . Conference does not appear in the Conference Ranking list , even though it has been around for a long time . Note that conferences satisfying some or all of these criteria are not necessarily poorly ranked .
If the instructions were only given orally , and not recorded in written form that is globally accessible ( either in a printed syllabus , or an online forum ) , then you do n't have documentary evidence of the instructions being given . If this is the case , I would follow the standard university procedures , if there are some available , governing this situation . If there are none , then For this offering only , and only in the case where no printed instructions were given , I would allow students to take a make-up exam . On the other hand , if there is documented evidence of your policy , then you should follow the policy as it 's given . In any case , however , it 's always a good idea to allow " documented " reasons ( for example , illness , court appearances , schedule conflicts if exams are scheduled outside of regular time slots ) to be excused , with a clear policy for what will happen ( students can take a makeup exam ; other grades are reweighted ) .
Yes , this is a fine question to ask , although I might phrase is slightly differently : " How happy are you with the progress that I am making ? " which makes it a little more open-ended and focuses the question more on process and progress .
I do n't know how mathjob distributes candidates ' applications to schools , but I doubt anyone cares . I put all applications I get for my job postings into a folder in no particular order and never look at the order of application . Someone has to be first . Go ahead ! Apply away !
This does not sound unusual to me . Just ask yourself , is there a possibility that the reader would need this ? I have seen theses and dissertations with no appendices and some with over 50 pages of appendices . In my field , these are often filled with user study materials , source code , or raw data which can easily eat up many pages . I do n't see any harm done with being conservative and including everything . In this case , I have seen people list two versions of their thesis online , one with and one without the appendices .
This is an interesting question -- and yet when you think about it , it 's horrifying that we 'd have to consider even for an instant the propriety and legality of keeping our own annotated research materials . But , to provide a proper answer : In principle , this may depend on the terms of the license under which you downloaded these papers . In practice , you are very likely to be in the right , both legally and morally . In general , I believe that the licenses allow you to reproduce ( i.e. , print or save ) the document for research purposes -- without specifying a time limit or maximum duration of their subsequent use . See e.g. <URL> . If you are asking about the ethical/moral propriety of what you are doing , you are clearly in the right to retain your collection of papers and notes on those papers . In fact , you may even have an ethical obligation to retain those materials if the notes therein are necessary to reproduce any of your present work . As an analogy , think about what I did many years ago when moving from one university to another . I had an extensive paper collection of reprints , many photocopied from my institution 's library and many extensively annotated . I boxed all of these up and brought them with me . No one in their right mind -- nor even most copyright lawyers , I 'd imagine -- would have had me go through those files and discard the articles not in volumes held by my new institution . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice . It does seem to be good common sense , though , and sometimes that can be worth at least as much as anything a lawyer would tell you .
I am at an American private research university . There is no general university or department pool of money that I can use to pay for professional association or conference registration . However , I am given both an annual conference travel fund as well as individual research funds . I am free to use those as I see fit within reason for purposes that promote my research and scholarship . That would include association registration as well as annual meeting registration . Fine print : There are some restrictions . For example , I am affiliated with some programs on campus that provide research funds but I am supposed to use those funds for those research categories . Thus , I could use the research funds given to me by the fictive Elbonian Studies Program for registration with the American Association of Elbonian Studies as well as for their annual meeting ; I could use it for my general Anthropology association registration , but I should n't use it for a conference/association that has no connection to Elbonian Studies .
( I assume here that you 're talking about admission to PhD programs . ) I 'm not in computer science , so I ca n't speak with authority . We have a number of users here who are in US computer science departments and maybe one of them can step in . However , I would think that first-author publications would not be essential for admission to good PhD programs in the US . Keep in mind that in the US system , most students would enter a PhD program immediately after their undergraduate ( bachelor 's ) degree , without doing a masters first . These students would not necessarily have any publications at all . The admission committee would expect somewhat more from a student with a masters , but I 'd think any publications , first-author or not , would be a pretty good sign of your research ability and preparation to start a PhD . Another thing to note is that recommendation letters are very important for admission to US PhD programs . If your advisor writes you a letter which speaks highly of the work you did , that should help your application a lot .
I do not know about US schools , but for my UK university the IELTS requirements are non-negotiable . Most of the time we see this right away . Sometimes we screw up and read and evaluate the entire application before noticing . In all cases the student is not offered a place . Other UK universities , especially ones that struggle to fill their spots , sometimes will argue with the administration that an exception should be made . From my understanding , they almost always lose .
I can think of several different cases : Case # 1 : I do research based on interviews that shows fanny packs are going to come back in style . I buy a few stocks in addition to publishing my paper . Case # 2 : I do research by mining a publicly available non-restricted social sciences data set that shows people will start drinking R.C. Cola more than Coca Cola . I buy a 10 % interest in the company based on my research . Case # 3 : As an unemployed geologist , I discover that there are major , high quality , and easily accessible oil reserves under west virginia and buy a large number of shorts on oil stocks before the research goes public . Case # 4 : I work for a natural gas company and do research on their behalf and discover that their wells contain far less natural gas than previously thought . I short their stock and profit . Case # 5 : I have access to private algorithms that can predict anything . I use these to figure out who the next Justin Timberlake will be and invest heavily in his company . Case # 6 : I discover a tree found only in a small forest in France can cure cancer . I buy the entire forest ( to monopolize the resource and get rich ) . I do n't see anything wrong with cases # 1 - # 3 . Trying to work our criteria without availing to ethical theories , I 'd suggest the following questions to evaluate any hypothetical profit : How much profit are we talking about ? ( a $ 20 bet ? several millions dollars ? ) The smaller the less meaningful the simultaneously benefit . Who was the research done for ? If I have no obligations to others based on my research , then it 's more likely to be in the clear . If I was employed or working on a grant , then I have obligations to my employer which may obligate me to act or not act in certain ways . Is my profit in conflict with these obligations ? Did my research depend on resources that I do n't own or have the right to use ? Does my profiteering involve something that might otherwise be immoral ? And of course , on the research side , you have an obligation to disclose any material conflicts ( but again , the size of investment matters -- we do n't need to know about $ 100 bets , but we do need to know you have a controlling interest in a blimp company for your paper on the future of air transportation ) . tl ; dr if it 's merely your research will impact some companies , then assuming we 're not talking George Soros level amounts of money , there 's no obvious reason why it would be unethical to benefit financially from your research .
There is n't anything wrong with submitting to a conference that might not be a perfect fit . I would urge you to ensure that the fit is decent enough that you wo n't be wasting anyone 's time , but cross-polination can be great for both fields . When I was a graduate student and was helping my advisor review papers for a prominent conference , I read an outstanding paper that I did n't believe was on-topic for the conference , and I suggested to my advisor that it should be rejected it even though it had a novel ( and cool ) contribution . When I discussed it with her , she said that for really excellent papers , program committees will sometimes be flexible . If I was convinced it was that good , she said , I should give it a positive review and let the committee sort it out . In the end they accepted the paper . It was very well-received at the conference , and the authors were excited to get the paper into the competitive conference , where it would undoubtedly be seen by a lot of people .
For any well established research , they will usually have quite a large number of citations , which would make a " cited by " section would be exhausting to maintain and large beyond meaningful readability . A better route is to link to an database that actually engages in curating ones citations , such as Google Scholar . I do , however , sometimes see people maintaining a collection of notable articles in non-scientific media . These are not normally picked up by citation databases and are valuable for showing that work is having impact outside of the scientific community , as well as ( sometimes ) providing a nice introduction to the work .
There are at least four worries , in my experience : The students may be trying not to study any more than they absolutely have to study . So if the professor says something is n't on the exam , they wo n't study it . If the professor says what is on the exam , but does n't explicitly mention something , and then that thing comes up ( even as a minor part of another problem ) , the students may complain that " you said that was n't on the test ! " . This can happen even if the professor really made a good faith effort to say what was on the test , and the students simply misunderstood . The professor may not have written the exam yet , and so she does n't know the exact topics that will be included . Someone else may write the exam , if there are many sections of the course taking the same exam . In that case , the professor may not be permitted to say what is on the exam . When I was a postdoc , they did n't even show us the common calculus exam until just before it was administered . There are various strategies to cope with these worries . A common one , as described in the question , is to just say that the exam can include everything from the class , which is not very informative but is otherwise harmless . There are other strategies , as well , such as making an exam review packet that includes more than the exam possibly could , and then selecting exam problems based on the review packet . But these do n't help with the issue of common exams written by someone else . By the way , if turnaround is fair play : we professors often ask the dual question : why do students so often ask what will be on the exam , when they have just had a class on the same material that will be on the exam ? As you can imagine , we may feel that we have already told the students what we want them to know , by designing the course to include it !
It is often remarkable to me just how much work a person will put in just to avoid doing a different piece of work . In this case , it sounds to me like the committee made exactly the right call : it sounds like rubbish work deserving a terrible grade , but certainly not plagiarism .
I think the technical answer is no . Rather it is a series of research monographs . Clearly there is a continuum here , and actually the SLN [ X ] series seems to have become more journal-like since the last time I checked . ( The SLNM webpage lists an inmpact factor , for instance . ) I think you can do no better than to consult the series homepages : <URL> . <URL> . <URL> . In CS the series seems to be organized into many subseries , however each volume gets a " global number " . However in all three cases you can check the language used and see that they talk about " monographs " , " titles " and " texts " , never " journals " . If my memory is accurate , librarians view them this way as well : sometimes journals can be checked out for a much shorter time than books , and in my experience the SLNM have always been treated like books . For the math series , from the linked page you can click to get a four page pdf file detailing the editorial policy for the productions of the LNM monographs . The following passage seems rather enlightening : Monograph manuscripts should be reasonably self-contained and rounded off . Thus they may , and often will , present not only results of the author but also related work by other people . They may be based on specialised lecture courses . Furthermore , the manuscripts should provide sufficient motivation , examples and applications . This clearly distinguishes Lecture Notes from journal articles or technical reports which normally are very concise . Articles intended for a journal but too long to be accepted by most journals , usually do not have this " lecture notes " character . For similar reasons it is unusual for doctoral theses to be accepted for the Lecture Notes series , though habilitation theses may be appropriate . I could not find the analogous file for either the SLNCS or SLNP . In terms of the specific question : Some universities require the PhD students to publish in journals in order to graduate , so I want to know . I am in Computer Science field . This is a question about academic culture , both general CS culture and the culture of your specific department and university . You certainly need to ask people in your own local culture . As you can see above , in mathematics graduate students rarely publish in SLNM : PhD theses are generally not appropriate , and it is hard to see what other book-length partially expository high level research document it would be worth the time of a graduate student to write and publish . But it looks like CS does things a bit differently ...
end question
start question
What are the potential pitfalls of having a PhD in machine learning particularly ?
As a person who has hired quite a few people in industry , I will simply say that advanced areas ( or even areas that are perceived to be advanced ) often see PhDs being preferable . In this respect I completely agree with Bitwise . I do not , however , agree that you might earn less . Those with sought-after skills get paid well in industry . It is about supply and demand but supply ( people who can do the job ) is not high and demand is growing . Machine-learning is hot in the business literature . That is , managers are becoming well informed about the potentials of machine-learning and they are becoming worried that the only way they can compete for the long-term is by taking advantage of this area . While lower-level programming jobs might not see any benefit from higher qualifications , areas like machine-learning are not seen as lower-level . To answer your main question , are there pitfalls of having a PhD if you want a job in industry ? The answer is no . I am unaware of anyone who has ever thought lower of a job candidate because they have a PhD . Yes , you could get a job without one but for your areas of interest , a PhD will give you lots of advantage when it comes to getting job offers .
The matter of when to meet or talk to your POI is definitely subjective , but in my personal opinion there 's no harm in keeping in touch , if you expect to have a relationship with this professor in the future . I think that creating a dialogue with this faculty and discussing potential research projects as an incoming student rather than a prospective student places you in a very different position , and is better than blindly looking at her papers , etc. . If nothing else , she may be able to guide you to other faculty as she learns more about you and your interest , and does n't see a good fit . Of course , none of this is concrete , but from my experience it was useful to informally keep in touch with POIs across the board and see where I would head in the future , both academically and at jobs .
Moodle and Blackboard &amp; co are learning management systems , not e-learning software that is sometimes ( but not always ) built into such an LMS . There is indeed a lack of educational theory behind many e-learning units , for example , the learning goals are not clearly defined , the target group is not specified , the evaluation of the learning goals ( if stated ) does not actually match , etc. . And there are many side issues ( hidden curricula , usability , etc ) .
It depends on the particular conference and the field . In computer science ( where the main publication venue is conferences ) , many conferences divide the published papers into " talks " and " posters " ( eg NIPS , AISTATS , ... ) , and there 's no difference in terms of publication . In most other fields , however , acceptance at a conference means nothing , and you have to get published in a journal . TL ; DR : ask your advisor .
If you 're asking about graduate school in the US , probably the single most significant thing you can do is to take the <URL> ( not the math section of the general test ! ) , and score well on it . This test covers a broad spectrum of material that is taught in a typical undergraduate math curriculum , and so if you get a good score , it strongly supports your claim that you have the level of mathematics knowledge required to enter grad school . Without that key piece of evidence ( i.e. a good GRE subject score ) , graduate admissions committees are likely to look at your statement that you have the knowledge to take graduate courses , contrast it with your lack of an undergraduate degree , and conclude that you 're full of hot air , so to speak . Now , of course there is more that has to be done to actually get yourself admitted . In my own field of theoretical physics , even a 990 ( the top score ) on the GRE is n't enough to get you into a good grad school by itself . I would imagine the same is true for the top schools in math , though perhaps at a less competitive school , it might be . But I think to be safe , you should assume that you 'll have to present some other sort of evidence of accomplishment that could be viewed as equivalent to an undergraduate transcript . You 'll also need recommendation letters and various sorts of essays and forms . But a lot of that can vary from school to school , and is more likely to be negotiable if you talk to someone in the department . The GRE subject score is the one thing you really need to get your foot in the door , so to speak .
A doctoral degree is a credential signifying largely that you are capable of doing independent research at the highest possible level . It is not , in an of itself , a ticket to working in a particular industry or in a particular location any more than a bachelor 's or a master 's degree . In fact , PhD holders may have substantially more challenges in those aspects , because the additional qualifications make them unattractive for many positions in conventional businesses and industries . ( You are unlikely to find a PhD working in a sales division of a multinational conglomerate , for instance . ) The reason to get a PhD is because you are interested in problem solving and doing original work . If this does n't describe your motivation , I would recommend against pursuing a graduate degree , because it will be a very long few years of your life which are not guaranteed to achieve the objectives you 've laid out .
The major quantifiable predictor of success in research is ... success in research . People who have done research successfully in the past are more likely than not to continue to do so . For students that have not done research in the past , the best predictor I have seen for success ( whatever that may be ) is expressed in a quote from The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research , by Marian Petre &amp; Gordon Rugg : A willingness to learn for themselves and good judgement about when to stop and ask for feedback . * It 's not exactly quantifiable , but you can get a sense for it in an interview . ( Of course , this quality can be learned , so a lack of it does n't necessarily predict an inability to succeed at research . ) * I took this quote completely out of context ; the authors there are actually discussing the role of the PhD advisor , and they mention this quality in reference to a student " who can be pretty much left to get on with it , with supervisory meetings being something that both parties enjoy , and where each party learns from the other . "
There are some general guidelines for choosing members of a PhD committee : They should have some enthusiasm for the work that you do . If they 're not invested in seeing you succeed , you wo n't get as much utility out of that committee member as someone else who might not be as knowledgeable , but is more committed . They should have the time to be on your committee . If they 're extremely busy , then it does n't help to have them on a committee , because it will be difficult for them to attend the meetings -- or it will make scheduling the meetings a nightmare . They should not have conflicts with either you or your advisor . A thesis committee is already a somewhat political body . There 's no need to add extra politics to the situation by having interpersonal or professional conflicts before the committee even begins to meet ! Collectively , there should not be a power " imbalance . " If your advisor is a new assistant professor , do n't overload the committee with a bunch of full professors holding named chairs , and vice versa . When they will set preliminary exams , there 's the additional qualification of : The committee members should be familiar enough with your area that they know what it might make sense to test you on , but not so familiar with your work that they turn it into a " gotcha " game .
No , why should it ? Running out of copyright explicitly means a loss of a right . It does not mean the beginning of any additional obligation . Running out of copyright , however , means that anybody who already owns a copy may duplicate it and make it available under any conditions he chooses ( including making it available free of charge ) . Many university libraries do this .
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
As a person who has hired quite a few people in industry , I will simply say that advanced areas ( or even areas that are perceived to be advanced ) often see PhDs being preferable . In this respect I completely agree with Bitwise . I do not , however , agree that you might earn less . Those with sought-after skills get paid well in industry . It is about supply and demand but supply ( people who can do the job ) is not high and demand is growing . Machine-learning is hot in the business literature . That is , managers are becoming well informed about the potentials of machine-learning and they are becoming worried that the only way they can compete for the long-term is by taking advantage of this area . While lower-level programming jobs might not see any benefit from higher qualifications , areas like machine-learning are not seen as lower-level . To answer your main question , are there pitfalls of having a PhD if you want a job in industry ? The answer is no . I am unaware of anyone who has ever thought lower of a job candidate because they have a PhD . Yes , you could get a job without one but for your areas of interest , a PhD will give you lots of advantage when it comes to getting job offers .
The title <URL> as the name of an advanced degree was first awarded in <URL> at the Humboldt University of Berlin in the 19th century . From there it spread to the US , Japan and elsewhere in Europe . The chicken and egg problem was simple : you do n't have to have a PhD to certify someone as an expert in some field of knowledge if you are already a world-leading authority in that field of knowledge . The faculty at the Humboldt University at that time were all already widely known experts , and so they were able to credential other as experts .
I do n't know about combinatorics in particular , but I did get a PhD from one of Carnegie Mellon 's other interdisciplinary programs ( Pure and Applied Logic ) ; I was offered the choice of whether my PhD would officially be in the program name or in " Mathematical Sciences " , and was advised to choose the latter . If you 're PhD is in something other than " Mathematics " or an obvious synonym , and you want to get hired as mathematics faculty , there are two concerns that might come up : Do you know enough math , broadly speaking , to be a good colleague ( for instance , be out outside member on thesis committees , to talk to people , and so on ) ? Can you teach introductory courses ? I do know of people with degrees called " Logic " where these concerns were raised about hiring them . In the cases I know , someone was around to address those concerns , but it might be a disadvantage in departments where no one in the faculty was familiar enough with the program to address them . ( On the other hand , places where no one is familiar with your program are n't as likely to hire you anyway . ) With a degree in something as clearly mathematical as combinatorics , I think the first concern is unlikely to be an issue . The latter might be , especially if those programs do n't necessarily include any TA-ing/teaching of intro calculus courses , but this is also a concern that can be preempted ( for instance , by making sure to pursue enough teaching experience as a grad student ) .
Let us assume , for example , you read Doe ( 2011 ) and find Smith ( 1966 ) referenced therein . Technically , you can say something like " Smith ( 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) " , or alternatively " ( Smith 1966 , cited in Doe , 2011 ) . " The exact format depends on the format of the journal ( it is also possible to phrase it " cited by " instead of " cited in " ) . That said , however , it is very dangerous to provide such quotes since you do not know if the person ( s ) citing the paper has understood it correctly . It is not unheard of that people cite for very odd reasons and not double-checking works cited may just propagate such errors . So , it is possible but not recommended .
There is n't any wrong way to cover course material , but different approaches may be more or less effective for learning . However , it is difficult for a stranger to give you definitive advice , since what works best for you may not be the same as what has worked in the past for other students . At the same time , certain <URL> or strategies seem to be effective for a large number of students . My advice if you want to start learning on your own in a new subject area is the following , in roughly this order : Read . Take advantage of textbooks , lecture notes &amp; slides , and articles that cover your subject of interest . You should n't expect to understand everything , but you should continue reading and re-reading material as you gain more understanding of the subject . Search for and learn about resources and tools related to your subject of interest . What do other students , teachers , or experts on this subject use or rely on ? This should lead to more reading , which will give you more perspective on the subject . Try to find things that link the new material to thing you know and understand . Look for analogies , similarities , and differences . Keep track of your questions -- questions raised by your reading , questions that arise from new ideas that challenge your perspectives or understanding of basic principles . Try to find answers to your questions ; seek advice from people ( or <URL> attended by knowledgeable people ) to explore solutions to your questions .
Reposting my answer from the original thread There have been multiple studies about this over the years and in different fields , indicating a link rot on the order of a few percent per year . Here are some , in chronological order : Randy J. Carnevale , Dominik Aronsky , The life and death of URLs in five biomedical informatics journals , International Journal of Medical Informatics , Volume 76 , Issue 4 , April 2007 , Pages 269-273 , doi : <URL> . states Of the 19,108 references extracted from 606 printed and 86 in-press articles , 1112 ( 5.8 % ) references contained a URL . Of the 1049 unique URLs , 726 ( 69.2 % ) were alive , 230 ( 21.9 % ) were dead , and 93 ( 8.9 % ) were comatose . URLs from in-press articles included 212 URLs , of which 169 ( 79.7 % ) were alive , 21 ( 9.9 % ) were dead , and 22 ( 10.4 % ) were comatose . The average annual decay , or link rot , rate was 5.4 % . Edmund Russell , Jennifer Kane ( 2008 ) . The Missing Link : Assessing the Reliability of Internet Citations in History Journals . Technology and Culture , Volume 49 , Number 2 , pp. 420-429 . doi : <URL> states We examined the reliability of worldwide web citations in two leading history journals ( Journal of American History and American Historical Review ) over seven years and found that 18 percent of web links cited over that period were inactive . The problem increased over time . In articles published seven years earlier , 38 percent of web citations were dead . Jason Hennessey and Steven Xijin Ge ( 2013 ) : A cross disciplinary study of link decay and the effectiveness of mitigation techniques . BMC Bioinformatics 14 ( Suppl 14 ) : S5 . doi : <URL> states we downloaded 18,231 Web of Science ( WOS ) abstracts containing " http " in the title or abstract from the years under study ( 1996-2010 ) , out of which 17,110 URLs ( 14,489 unique ) were extracted and used . We developed Python scripts to access these URLs over a 30-day period . For the period studied , 69 % of the published URLs ( 67 % of the unique ) were available on the live Internet , the Internet Archive 's Wayback Machine had archived 62 % ( 59 % unique ) of the total and WebCite had 21 % ( 16 % unique ) . Overall , 65 % of all URLs ( 62 % unique ) were available from one of the two surveyed archival engines . Klein M , Van de Sompel H , Sanderson R , Shankar H , Balakireva L , Zhou K , et al. ( 2014 ) Scholarly Context Not Found : One in Five Articles Suffers from Reference Rot . PLoS ONE 9 ( 12 ) : e115253 . doi : <URL> . looked at link rot in article corpora from arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC : All three corpora show a moderate , yet alarming , link rot ratio for references made in recent articles , published in 2012 : 13 % for arXiv , 22 % for Elsevier , and 14 % for PMC . Not surprisingly when considering the dynamic nature of the web , for older articles the link rot ratio increases in all corpora . For publication year 2005 , the link rot ratio stands at 18 % , 41 % , 36 % for arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC , respectively . Going back to the earliest publication year in our corpora , 1997 , the ratios become 34 % , 66 % , and 80 % , respectively . Zittrain , J , Albert , K and Lessig , L . ( 2014 ) . Perma : scoping and addressing the problem of link and reference rot in legal citations . Harvard Law Review 127 : 176 -- 196 . surveyed law journals and court decisions , with the following observations We documented a serious problem of reference rot : more than 70 % of the URLs within the above mentioned journals , and 50 % of the URLs within U.S. Supreme Court opinions suffer reference rot -- meaning , again , that they do not produce the information originally cited . I also think I had seen a study somewhere that indicated that even " early online " articles start out at about 5-10 % link rot , i.e. they start rotting well before official publication . Could not find that right now , though .
( edited to extract the key points from the main reference ) <URL> were always essential for me . Firstly I will give a personal replies to your answers and subsequently I will extract the main points of the Ian 's guidelines which are the basis for my answer . Personal perspective What is an effective ratio of introduction / methods / results / conclusion slides ? My own rule of thumb is to allocate 2-3 minutes per slide , which gives max . 6-8 slides including the envelope ( the " title " and the " end + questions ? " ones ) . That is , we have about 5 real content slides of which for introduction I allocate 1 for motivation &amp; context , and 1 to problem definition . The body gets whatever it needs , but should n't exceed 4 slides , with at least a single one dedicated to a sketch of a worked example . The audience does n't need to know how exactly I am doing the magic , I must however make them trust me and see what I am doing as plausible . The summary/conclusion/future work gets 1 slide . How can I balance the details of research without loosing the audience on key points ? Stress the motivation , the relevance of the problem and only sketch your solution so that an example which you provide will be plausible enough . Your talk is an advertisement for your paper . You are doing your best to assure that people learn something and you imprint some key points in their heads ( the problem description and a sketch of the main idea solving it ) . You do n't need to explain the details , just sketch the main principles . You want to compel the audience to either read your paper that day in the evening and base their own work on it ( hence citations ! ) , or ensure that sometime in the future when they will face a problem , they 'll remember that there was this guy speaking about something along the same lines , so let 's check it ( hence possible citations ! ) . What makes a " great " talk ? For me , it 's grounding in reality . Show me what impact your stuff has on me . Speak about an application I might care for , even if it will be only a hypothetical one . If the result can not be framed as a machine , or software , such as a lot of ( non-computational ) game-theory , then speak about implications to the society . Strike whatever chord , which makes your results tangible . It all boils down to answering a single question for every single person in the audience : Why should I care ?! But even if you do the all the positive advice right , there 's a more important point , namely what you should n't do . For example I tend to speak a lot ( see my posts at this site :-) ) . My main drill during preparation of a talk is to throw away everything non-essential . Moreover , I am often writing down notes about what not to say . Many otherwise great talks are ruined by the presenter speaking too much * and ** showing off . I do n't want to be impressed by your smartness , or charisma per se , I want you to simply educate me ! And finally the key points from the <URL> for giving a good talk , emphasis mine . General advice Communicate the Key Ideas : select 1-2 main high-level ideas and present them in a crisp and crystal clear way . Do n't get Bogged Down in Details : do not even attempt to discuss the details , unless you you have brisk answers to possible questions you open that way . Structure Your Talk &amp; Use a Top-down Approach : go the least-surprise path , i.e , the audience needs a story a wants to be able to follow it . The structure should stay crisp : 1 ) solid motivation/intro , 2 ) main points/body , 3 ) technicalities , if really necessary , 4 ) conclusion . Know Your Audience : allows you to skip some common-knowledge in the audience , as well as select what is important to them and what do they care for . Structure of the talk I added the emphasis to the points which I consider crucial . The Introduction Define the Problem Motivate the Audience Introduce Terminology Discuss Earlier Work Emphasize the Contributions of your Paper Provide a Road-map The Body Abstract the Major Results Explain the Significance of the Results Sketch a Proof of the Crucial Results Technicalities Present a Key Lemma Present it Carefully The Conclusion Hindsight is Clearer than Foresight Give Open Problems Indicate that your Talk is Over
There 's a wide range of people called adjunct faculty . For example , it may include working professionals in the field who serve as part-time faculty ( this is common in law and architecture , and I 've seen it with industrial researchers in computer science ) . Depending on the circumstances , this sort of adjunct may be treated much like the other faculty in the department , except for being part time . However , I assume you are talking about the most common use of the term " adjunct " , at least in the US , namely low-paid , low-status faculty typically teaching part time on temporary contracts . ( They may be working full time overall , but only part time at any given institution , so the universities can avoid paying benefits . ) For this sort of adjunct , it really depends on the details of the contract , and it may vary between universities , as well as depending on issues such as whether any of the courses are online . A typical arrangement will include some amount of course design ( at least at the level of creating a syllabus ) , lecturing , grading , and office hours . Typically there is no committee work or other service and no research duties .
I 've been publication chair of an IEEE conference before , and it 's pretty straight-forward . IEEE has a well-arranged process for managing conference publications , and you basically just need to hold up your side of the deal and make sure that nothing falls through the cracks . In particular : you should have an IEEE CPS publications contact . You can get this from the current general chairs , since they 're dealing with IEEE , or ( since its usually the same from year to year ) you can ask the previous publications chair . Set up a meeting with that person ASAP and they can walk you through the process and make plans with you ; I 've had very good experiences working with their publications personnel . The key responsibilities that you should expect to fulfill are : Set a schedule acceptable to IEEE and the conference chairs Work with the general chairs to fill out the required forms and get them to the IEEE on time , so that you can get the publications <URL> contract signed . This will include setting the various different types of publications ( e.g. , main track , short papers , workshop papers , tutorial abstracts , etc ) , as well as pages sizes , expected number , delivery method ( I recommend USB sticks ) and budget . Send information about camera ready from IEEE to the various conference chairs that need it ( general , program , workshops , tutorial , etc. ) . Work with chairs to get all of the front matter prepared in a timely fashion and within the schedule negotiated with IEEE ( cover , index information , introductions , sponsored material , etc. ) . Immediately after the conference , report to IEEE whether there were any no-shows ( who should have their papers removed ) . One month after reporting whether there were and no-shows , everything should appear online in IEEE Xplore . If it does n't , then you need to keep pinging IEEE 's representative to make sure things get into IEEE Xplore as promptly as possible .
I would say MOVE ON . . Some professors are full of students . They are not looking for new prospective students in the next year or so . Therefore , the simple action to do is ignoring prospective students emails . The best to do is to phone him/her if s/he did n't answer in 3 months after 2 or 3 emails . Try to meet him in conference and try to contact his/her current PhD students . .
end question
start question
Is it ethical to merge a set of relative publications in a single journal without additional content ?
What you are describing is one form of <URL> . Although review articles more typically describe a more general state of the art on a problem , they can also be used to tie together and summarize a collection of linked papers into one coherent entry point . Doing this well will require creating quite a lot of new content -- it just wo n't be new technical results . Rather , the content created in such a paper is the distillation of a much larger body of work into a single coherent picture . This can be quite valuable for readers , because trying to reconstruct the picture of a body of work that is evolving over time and scattered across papers can be painful and difficult ; additional detail about particular points can then be obtained by following the citations to the source articles . Note also that if you write this article well there will be little risk of self-plagiarism , because you 'll need to rewrite everything pretty much from scratch to fit into the new and more compressed arrangement of ideas . So , in summary : it 's not only ethical , it is legitimate new work and can be highly valuable , just so long as you make the nature of the article extremely clear and include all of the relevant citations .
After a deeper thought , I 've come to a conclusion not to cite commercial product pages as it would turn part of my academic paper into an online shopping catalogue . The following are the alternatives adopted : Include the name of the company along with product name Cite patents of the products Cite product-specific publications
Based on our work with them , it seems to be a high quality publication . We published a JoVE article last year and several of the protocols we use in the lab are adapted from other JoVE articles . So it seems effective in its mission . The video format really works for certain protocols , and it may make it easier for people to reproduce your work ( thereby getting you more citations ) . That said , there is the price tag to consider , and the editorial process is extensive and time consuming ( you write an article , then go through normal peer review , then work with them to turn it into a screenplay , then get everyone together with the videographer they provide , etc. ) . So I would say that if your method does not specifically benefit from the video format , there is n't an advantage over a conventional methods journal . As far as how it 's received , I have n't noticed any differences from any other small journal .
If a graphic clearly gets across the message then why not use it ? Just check what the regulations specify though , To elaborate a bit more you need to think about what the introduction is for . If it is intended as an executive summary then a diagram that summarises the work could be very effective . If however it is setting the context of the work then I find it difficult to see how a diagram would help .
Is it against the law ? Probably . It it scientific misconduct ? A breach of ethics ? Hardly . It is acceptable ? It 's your decision to make based on risk analysis . If you do n't do it on a large scale ( i.e. someone supplying many people with papers ) , it 's probably okay . It is common practice . Also , be aware that many journal articles can now be found either in pre-print or post-print form online ( though this depends widely on your field ) , either on institutional repositories or on the authors ' webpages . If you 're merely missing access every once in a while , you can also nicely ask the corresponding author .
The comments are already spot on , but let me elaborate a bit . Comparing h-indices ( or any other " hard " metric ) is already dangerous in narrow fields and downright foolish if used for comparisons among different fields . This is not only because some fields are larger than others , but also because : Differences in publication standards . In applied CS we write lots of papers , in many natural sciences , much fewer papers get written per researcher and time period . Arguably , this is because many empirical fields require the setup and analysis of lengthy experiments , something that is not typically ( but not never ) done in CS . Difference in co-author ethics . Just check around here on this stack exchange , and you will see that standards for co-authorship are not at all uniform in all fields . Clearly , fields with more loose co-authorship standards also expect researchers to be part of more paper projects , hence leading to higher h-indices on average . Differences in citation standards . In some fields , papers traditionally have 10 or less citations . In others , multiple dozen references are considered an informal minimum , again leading to higher average h-indices . ( and this is even without going into how easy h-indices are to manipulate if you are willing to - keyword " citation rings " )
I think you have largely hit the nail on the head in your own post . There is nothing intrinsically wrong with charging for valuable experiential information . In fact , this really could be an extension to charging for ' edits ' or tutoring . Really if they are providing non-sensitive information regarding the procedures and what the admissions panel look for - then I do n't see any major ethical quandaries . However , you highlight a key point . They could be leaking information explicitly obtained from the panel ( that I assume they would have delivered in confidence ) . If this is the case , then I imagine it should be intuitive what the schools reaction would be . The reason this is unethical ( from my POV ) is that they are no longer sharing experiential information , but providing them with explicitly ' leaked ' outcomes that would give a disproportionate advantage . By analogy with the edit example . It would be fine for a tutor to edit and provide feedback on a students work . To the majority of people , I think they are aware this occurs and there are no ethical problems . In fact , a tutor might go so far as to show them example assignments . In fact , my department actively encourages students and postgrads to seek and help out students , respectively . However , if the tutor provided the marking key ( obtained from another postgrad running the unit ) and gave this to the student - that is blatantly unethical .
Yes , you should definitely send another polite email . You could also write directly to the editor , since your situation sounds fairly unreasonable . You deserve some sort of response to your submission . I would consider withdrawing the paper and submitting it elsewhere if you do n't get a response .
It is generally sufficient to say explicitly that " in this section we will recall the method X from [ citation ] " , and then simply do it . However , you may find it preferable not to quote equations and text from the original paper , but to adopt it according to the style , notation and message of your own manuscript .
I 'd recommend standard mathematical notation , which should be sufficiently unambiguous yet legible . Use the standard " union " symbol ( in LaTeX ) to denote separate sets you want to take the union over . Unfortunately , no MathJax here - so here is the LaTeX code and below the result ( <URL> ) : Depending on your layout ( one vs. two columns ) , insert linebreaks at appropriate places , e.g. , like I did in the LaTeX code but not the result .
What you are describing is one form of <URL> . Although review articles more typically describe a more general state of the art on a problem , they can also be used to tie together and summarize a collection of linked papers into one coherent entry point . Doing this well will require creating quite a lot of new content -- it just wo n't be new technical results . Rather , the content created in such a paper is the distillation of a much larger body of work into a single coherent picture . This can be quite valuable for readers , because trying to reconstruct the picture of a body of work that is evolving over time and scattered across papers can be painful and difficult ; additional detail about particular points can then be obtained by following the citations to the source articles . Note also that if you write this article well there will be little risk of self-plagiarism , because you 'll need to rewrite everything pretty much from scratch to fit into the new and more compressed arrangement of ideas . So , in summary : it 's not only ethical , it is legitimate new work and can be highly valuable , just so long as you make the nature of the article extremely clear and include all of the relevant citations .
In the UK many universities require new members of academic staff to obtain a PGCHE . The universities that I am familiar with offer the PGCHE curriculum in house via the School of Education . Since it is presented to new staff as a hoop to jump through , I know of no one outside of university administrators and schools of education that think the PGCHE , in any form , seriously . Further , I have seen many job adverts where a PGCHE is a " desirable " qualification , but never one where it is " essential " . During hiring , we briefly consider the presence/absence of a PGCHE , but never more than that .
It is perfectly ethical to inform a student that you are currently supervising about open positions , especially if the student is about to complete the thesis and is a good fit to the position . It is of course not ethical to let the student 's action upon this information affect the grading of the thesis . That 's for you to take care of , and I guess you were already aware of that . If you have any concerns about putting pressure onto the student , an alternative way would be to have someone else inform the student about the open position . You write that you supervise the student 's thesis , but your institute has the open position . If that means that someone other than you is directly responsible for the open position , than just ask that person to contact the student about the position . That will probably make the student feel less guilty with respect to you if he or she does n't apply for the position .
This answer is written with a background of a subfield of applied CS , where conferences are a primary venue of publications . tl ; dr : Yes , it is normal . At the same time , it is unusual ( though not " seen as weird " ) for someone to actually attend all conferences related to their field . Indeed , it can be a good idea to attend a conference simply out of interest for the topic . Both learning about new research and especially making connections with other researchers are worthwhile goals . However , there are a number of reasons why it might not be realistically feasible : Some employers would not want to regularly cover travel expenses to conferences unless the attendee is presenting something ( " has to go " ) there , especially if they take place far away . To clarify , presenting something on the conference counts as a compelling reason that requires attendance ( even if it means the person gets to attend 5 or more conferences in a single year ) , while simply attending out of mere interest does not . As suggested by <URL> , there are also arrangements where the total number of conferences that will be funded within a given timespan is restricted by an upper limit . In such cases , " saving " conference trips for the instances where you actually can present something may be the way to go . Even if the conference takes place very closely , registration fees are sometimes considerable ( 600 $ or more ) . The time required to travel or at least to attend the conference is missing elsewhere . It is " just " a few days , but it is a few days ever so often that the conference attendee will not be available for progressing with their research and fulfilling their possible other duties ( e.g. giving or supporting classes , supervising students , performing non-research tasks required by their funding source and/or department , etc. ) . This is especially difficult with regular ( e.g. teaching-related ) duties , as they can not just be postponed ; someone has to fill in for the traveling researcher . Moreover , the value of visiting these conferences ( especially compared to other strategies for using your time that restrict conference visits to when you also present something yourself ) should not be overestimated : While a conference can usually be picked for being " on-topic " for your research , most conference scopes are often still wide enough so the vast majority of works presented there are at best " nice to see , though essentially unrelated " to your work ( especially in early stages of your PhD , where you are probably somewhat focused on rather narrow topics , as opposed to more senior researchers , who are more likely to be interested in a whole bunch of topics covered by their own group ) . This is less of a concern for workshops , which are usually more focused on a specific topic or set of questions . On the other hand , workshops ( at least <URL> ) often have lesser requirements to the completeness of contributions , and also sometimes later deadlines than the main conference . As such , it can be easier to still produce something to present on a workshop as a " justification " to attend the workshop ( and also the conference it is embedded in ) . While some talks are certainly interesting to watch , not all of them are . A bit of personal preference towards receiving information in talks vs. in writing certainly plays into this . Still , I think it can generally be said that attending a conference is not an overly efficient means to quickly get updated on a wide spectrum of new ideas , given that every single such idea occupies a timeslot of some 20 to 25 minutes . Finding new contacts tends to be a bit of a " gamble " that is , among other factors , influenced by the nature of the conference . Especially smaller conferences can easily have something like a " core community " that considers the conference their " annual meeting of old friends " , where it is very difficult to get into . Again , this depends a lot on your personality , of course ; different people are very differently skilled at getting in touch with strangers .
In the general case , professors/lecturers/TAs should not accept gifts from students , as these things can lend themselves very easily to accusations of conflict of interest . This falls in the same general category as dating one of your students , or grading your kid 's exam . That said , I can think of three situation where gifts are acceptable . ( 1 ) a graduating student gets you something nice after graduation ( e.g. , in the department where I did my PhD , it is normal for students and advisors to exchange gifts after a successful doctoral defense ) . ( 2 ) a current student makes a " collective gift " , e.g. , a student brings a cake to class to celebrate his/her birthday and offers you a slice . ( 3 ) you go through some major life event and students pitch in to get you something , e.g. , when I came back to work after having to get major surgery , the grad students in my department got me a nice coffee machine to celebrate that I had n't died .
I would imagine this may vary from field to field , but in the biological sciences the caption text in journal publications is often verbose to the point of absurdity . That being said , I would simply use common sense ; If the description takes more than a paragraph , you should definitely " refer to text " . Generally speaking , the caption is simply a textual guide as to how to read the plot , with ( maybe ) a sentence drawing the reader 's attention to a particular feature of the plot . It should mostly describe the plot , and only sparingly discuss it .
Unless you won a huge amount of awards , I would be quite specific : " John Doe award from XYZ university for best master thesis in 2014 " . Even when you have won many awards , it still makes sense to be specific about the most important ones , and be brief about the others .
I think the answer is yes , but you should aim higher : the line you 're drawing in the sand is uncomfortably close to you and that 's causing more work for you than is necessary . Namely , trying to put the essential content of your papers on your own website for the purpose of freely disseminating your work seems wrongheaded : instead , you should be putting your own papers on your webpage and/or freely available preprint servers like the <URL> . In order to do so fully legally ( which is not necessarily the same as ethically : it is possible to feel that the law is unethical , in which case the ethical thing to do could be to break the law , but be willing to live with the consequences of that ) you need to arrange this as a condition of the publication . This is absolutely feasible with all of the major scientific publishing companies . How common the deal is seems to depend on the individual journal and on the standards of the field . In my field ( mathematics ) , I do not know of a reputable journal which would not allow its authors to post on the arxiv . ( Once I dealt with a journal which initially asked me to remove the copy of the paper from my homepage . After some back and forth , the editor in chief told me that it was absolutely okay for me to do that and he was surprised that the editorial assistant had said otherwise . In retrospect , this was a clear warning that I was dealing with a shady journal . ) I gather that in some scientific fields , there are " popular " journals which do not allow authors to put papers on the arxiv ( or , alas , there may not be an arxiv or clear equivalent ) or -- gasp ! -- on their own homepage . I find this strange , because in my understanding in most scientific fields the majority of journals are owned by Elsevier , Springer , Science Direct ... -- i.e. , by enormous multinational , multibillion dollar publishing magnates which are not renowned for their generosity or enthusiasm for open access . But when you publish a paper in ( e.g. ) mathematics in one of these journals , the copyright notice that you sign allows you to post the paper on the arxiv and your own webpage . I find it hard to believe that the copyright notices for different journals by the same publisher would be so different on this point . So the battle has already been won in these hardest places . If there are trade journals specific to your field which are less generous to authors than the evil empires I 've mentioned above : well , if you care about this sort of thing , do n't publish there . In terms of putting copies of published papers on the arxiv , in light of the comments above let me share my understanding . What you publish should not include any journal-specific formatting : it should not look like a Journal X publication . As a general practice , most authors upload to the arxiv before submission , and then only upload a new copy if some kind of significant , content-related change was made . In particular , if an error was pointed out , then it would be good to correct that . If the journal did copyediting for you -- which is not the same as directing you to do copyediting after acceptance -- then maybe it is best all around not to incorporate those changes in the freely available version : on the one hand , aside from formatting , this is the only place in which the journal itself is contributing to the paper ; on the other hand , going back and manually incorporating the copyediting for an entire paper could take some time and effort . To respond to what was said in the comments : in my opinion , whether your revisions were motivated by a referee report should not have any bearing on whether you want to change the freely available version . If you are making changes in response to a referee report , then including that information in a " comments " section on the paper would be a classy move . But as a frequent author and referee , I feel strongly that the changes you made in response to the referee report are not proprietary to the journal in any way ( or in any other way from the rest of the content of the paper ) . Added : The task of checking out policies of publishers and journals with regard to preprints is not something that an individual researcher needs to address from scratch : there are several online repositories of information about this . <URL> .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
Submitting an academic paper for publication ( and potentially getting it accepted ) does not require any qualifications whatsoever . You do n't need a PhD ; you do n't even need to have gone to college . There are no educational , employment , or membership requirements at all . That 's not to say it 's easy to get a paper accepted with no formal training in the field . Learning how to write a compelling paper is much easier if you have a mentor to offer guidance . However , if you can figure out how to do it without a PhD , then your lack of a PhD will not be held against you .
end question
start question
Given three reference letters in a postdoc application , how to decide which to list as the second letter and which to list as the third ?
In my experience I have never encountered a situation in which the ordering of reference letters mattered . Usually the only distinction between the different letters is when you are required to have letters from your PhD/postdoc supervisor . These letters may carry more weight because they are from the people which can best assess you . However my experience is from life sciences , not physics .
Most journals understand that such complexities exist , and will allow you to list multiple institutions , so all four of your options are certainly viable . That said , given that you have done much of your work on the paper while at your new institution , your new institution should certainly be listed as an affiliation , which means that you should be using either your option # 2 ( new only ) or # 3 ( both institutions ) . That leaves the question of whether the old institution should be listed or not . From what I have seen , the customs on this tend to vary by field and also by institution : you can probably make a reasonable argument for either listing or not listing the old institution . I would thus recommend talking with your co-authors to see what their feelings on the matter are , particularly if you have some co-authors from the old institution on the paper , who are the ones most likely to be upset if your judgement disagrees with theirs ( in either direction ) .
Well , there is n't really anything you can do except ask the editor , since he/she is the only one who has them ( except of course the reviewers themselves , whose identities are not and will not be known to you ) . So if you want those comments , that 's what you 'll have to do . Of course , it is possible that : the paper was " desk rejected " by the editor and never sent out for review at all ; or this journal has a policy of not sharing reviewer comments ; or the editor has decided for some reason that in this case it is not appropriate to share the comments with you .
In my experience I have never encountered a situation in which the ordering of reference letters mattered . Usually the only distinction between the different letters is when you are required to have letters from your PhD/postdoc supervisor . These letters may carry more weight because they are from the people which can best assess you . However my experience is from life sciences , not physics .
So is my financial situation going to depend on if I can secure a grant for my research as a postdoc or I should expect to receive a salary ? The question is not getting a grant or getting paid , it is getting paid by the institution you work for or getting your salary from a grant giving institution . How many postdocs do get paid ? ( As far as I know ) All of them . Depending on the country you are talking about it may even be illegal to employ someone without pay . However , ( as @virmaior pointed out ) there are some " postdocs " in Japan that are not paid and have no work requirements . At least in Europe and the US this is not common and in most cases this is probably a bad idea for someone looking for a regular postdoc position ( see my comment below ) . How likely is the success in either ways ? That depends on your field , the quality of your work , ... . We can not answer that but you can talk to your peers / supervisor about the job market to get an idea . [ as a postdoc ] I do not have to pay academic fees or any other fees to a university Right . One general remark : If you are not not getting a ( paid ) postdoc position or a grant you should try to find a job in the industry anyway . Finding a more senior position is usually much harder than finding a postdoc position .
It sounds like a good thing to do , since the reviewing process for this journal is over . I would certainly appreciate it if I where the author of that article ( passed the frustration that generally follows article rejection ) . It 's almost certain that it will be submitted somewhere else , so your ( free ) inputs will benefit the authors and the community . This is valid , of course , only if you are not reviewer again in the next submission , you should definitely decline if it happens .
In my opinion , the simplest and quickest ( but not necessarily the most optimal ) solution would be to rank those frameworks [ A , B , ... ] by your favorite criteria ( i.e. , importance , fit to my research career goals/interests , fit to my department 's research interests , etc. ) and then perform bibliometric search within the IEEE journals scope , using one or more of your top-ranked frameworks as keywords . The resulting list of journals would be pretty relevant to your paper as well as to your most important criteria .
For things like the list of authors at the top of a page , the authors do n't put those into their own manuscript at all : they are added in by the publisher during layout . The publisher will work to their own style guide . That style guide may be based on some combination of tradition , design aesthetics and user feedback . In those rare cases where the author is responsible for putting these in , here are the rules , in descending order of precedence . Do what the style guide says . If that 's not clear , ask the editor ( for a journal paper ) or your supervisor ( for a thesis ) If you still do n't have a clear answer , do what other recent documents that are most similar to yours have done ( so for theses , this would be the most recent theses in your department ) If you still do n't have a resolution , use your own aesthetic judgement .
I agree with blackace that you should probably be OK , but let me sketch what some of the drawbacks are : Ideally , an application to math grad school will have recommendations from mathematicians . The further you get away from that , the less meaningful the letters are . ( For example , at least once per year I see a letter from an English professor , which is utterly unhelpful . ) The basic issue is that you need recommenders who really understand what it takes to succeed in math grad school and as a mathematician . Fortunately , physics is close enough that physicists can do a pretty good job of judging this , so you should be OK . In my experience , the admissions committee will worry about two things : One is that physicists may not appreciate certain math-specific issues . For example , the expected coursework and background . A physicist may not fully understand the extent to which someone 's background is nonstandard or deficient for the math program they are applying to . A second reason is the belief that most people 's standards go down a little when making recommendations for other fields . If someone is applying to the top schools in your field , you know very well what the standards and competition are like , and you have something invested in the system and your own reputation as a recommender . In practice , recommenders from other fields seem to be a little more cavalier about making strong recommendations based on a feeling that the applicant is smart , rather than a comparison with the rest of the applicant pool . This means recommendations with be taken with a grain of salt . So if you have equally good prospects for letters writers from math and physics , you should choose the mathematicians for math applications . On the other hand , a physicist who knows you is still a good choice , much better than a mathematician who does n't know you . ( But a mathematician who does n't know you is a better choice than an English professor who does . )
If both institutions have supported your project , you should acknowledge both in your poster . To save space , you have a variety of options : Make the logos smaller by scaling them . If available , use a small , square version of the logo rather than a larger rectangular version . Put the logos in a part of the poster that is underutilized . ( For example , left-align the title and authors , and put the logos over to the right side next to the author list . )
The distinction between a conference one attends and a conference one is invited to speak at is relevant at all levels of one 's career in math . If you do n't give a talk , the distinction between a conference you attend simply by registering and a conference you attend by invitation only or only if accepted ( like workshops at <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> ) usually is n't particularly important . However , for an undergraduate to have been specifically invited to a invitation-only conference is rather unusual , and might indicate that you have a good reputation among senior mathematicians in the field , certainly a plus if applying to graduate school . If so , by far the most important way to communicate this in your file is by getting a letter of recommendation from those senior mathematicians . But it ca n't hurt to indicate it in your CV as well ; in your " Conferences attended " section , just add a parenthetical " ( invitation-only ) " to the relevant entries . But let me reiterate that what you put on your CV is 100 times less important than getting a strong recommendation letter from senior mathematicians who know you well and think highly of your potential for research .
The UK graduate schools are officially ranked through <URL> ( being currently phased out to be replaced by <URL> ) , so you can get a full list of programs that are of any worth <URL> . In the US , rankings are produced from time to time by the National Research Council . <URL> is from 2009 . The methodology and reporting format are beyond weird , but at least the list of programs is useful ( albeit difficult to navigate in the Excel file format ; I found my area , statistics , under " Physical sciences " , for instance , which is a very distant shot ) . The <URL> were done with involvement of real statisticians , so I trust them better .
If you are after highly cited work , <URL> has such a functionality under the tab <URL> : <URL> You can search highly cited work e.g. by subject or by year but note that citations come in slowly into MathSciNet , so data from a year ago may not say too much yet .
There 's a small chance it might help but probably not . If your page has been on the internet for any length of time then it 's already going to be stored in a number of library archives like archive.org It 's possible to remove pages from the site but it takes time and there are other archives . Example : <URL> Also your publications are likely to be searchable through a number of online systems for finding papers such as google scholar .
In this case I would opt to cite <URL> . Citing OpenCV as a whole is more appropriate than referring to a specific function , e.g. " we obtained our results using OpenCV [ Bradski00 ] " . Since you use OpenCV , you should also cite the related paper . I would only refer to a specific function in a software package if it does not implement a known algorithm and therefore requires special attention .
The way I learned how to lecture was just drawing on things other professors did that were beneficial to me . If you are going to get a PhD however , teaching will be secondary . The focus on the program you go in will be teaching you how to conduct research and write papers for publications . That being said the best way to improve , in my opinion , is to record yourself giving a lecture . Just audio is fine , make sure you are covering the context ... Every lecture I give I make sure I have the following components in it : I get to class early to talk to students as they come in and make sure I have all of the equipment ready to go . I bring some anecdotal humor into the lecture . I do n't sit there and tell knock knock jokes , but I make it relevant to them . Use previous material to frame the new material . Let them go early if I finish early . In addition to that I use an Audience Response System , or clicker , and that helps keep the students actively engaged ( class of 350 freshmen ) .
Is it better to have 2 good letters or recommendation or 2 good and 1 bad letter ? Definitely , it 's better to have two good letters . A bad letter is a very , very bad thing . They 're not counting -- they 're reading for understanding .
Yes , I would suggest you include these in the CV for a graduate application . It probably wo n't make a huge difference in admissions , but it is evidence that you are interested and involved in the research community in your field . You can list them in any way that seems appropriate ; there 's no strict standard format for a CV . You probably have sections for " Education " and " Work experience " and maybe " Publications " ; make a similar section entitled " Conferences attended " or " Conference participation " or something like that . Include the title , date and location of each conference , and maybe a short sentence discussing the scope of the meeting and your role . ( As discussed in the question you linked : later in your career , you will probably want to take this section out . )
The university I 'm at recently had a class with lecture in the morning , lab that afternoon , exam an hour after that , then a quiz the following morning in lecture , and finally a recitation that afternoon . Summer semesters tend to be like this as they are shorter in length than a fall or spring semester . No one is happy with it , but it 's what needs to happen to cover all the requisite material . What would typically happen during a regular semester is that labs ca n't be moved or adjusted , but usually the following lecture is either shorter of cancelled if it is the next day and the lecture the day of the exam is mostly review . But I must point out it is at the discretion of the professor .
Should I include my PhD as " ongoing " in a separate section to the rest of my education ? Or can I just indicate it as part of my education , but with a note like " 2011-present " or something ? The second option . I.e. , just indicate it as part of the education while noting explicitly something like " 2011 - 2016 ( expected ) "
end question
start question
What are the most important criteria to consider when hiring postdocs for a research group ?
My answer , item by item : I think that there is a difference if this is yet another postdoc or your only postdoc . But most important , we should pay attention to the ratio postdoc/permanent researchers . If the ratio is low ( few postdoc , lot of permanent researchers ) , you can choose to work with " junior " postdoc ( = someone not completely capable for working alone ) , while if the ratio is high , you need postdoc that are in fact already at the level of an assistant prof. But at some point I think we must ask ourselves if we always need one more postdoc . I guess this will depend on the field . In theoretical fields , when we hire a postdoc , this is to work with him . In some more practical fields , we tend to hire postdoc to make them working for us . The two cases are different : in the first case we need someone that will have ultimately an academic position , in the latter we need someone for coding , experimenting , etc. . Personally , I am not interested in the letters . I ask for references and I take my phone to know more about the candidate . Letters are always telling that the candidate is great , even if this is not completely true . I ask the candidate his/her papers , even those unpublished , and I read them . Then I contact some of the other authors to know more about who done what . Clearly yes . A postdoc is a researcher , I think that the way of working is very different : you can spend a lot of time without being " productive " when you are a postdoc , which is not the case in industry . This can be depressing , so we have to make sure that a postdoc ( which has less guidance than a PhD student ) can handle that .
I also have a very common name ( usually quoted along the lines of " Smith , J. " ) and despite the fact that I have worked and published with two different institutions there has never been a problem assigning all my papers to me personally ( ORCID and other system let you take your institution ( s ) into account ) . As long as there is n't a person with the same first and last name in your institution ( and even then , it usually a couple of clicks to rectify the situation and I am speaking of someone who had to contend with a Joan/John Smith situation ) . My university makes all researchers from post doc onwards keep a list of their publications on their official university homepage , so even google will associate my publications correctly . So if you come across a paper from my old affiliation you can get my current contact data from this . And honestly most subfields are specialised enough that people roughly know that John Smith at institution A is working on a certain topic ( because that 's what your group does ) and John Smith at institution B will probably not have published a particular paper . If people want to talk to your about your results , they will find you , even with a common name .
To answer the first question : I asked a similar question on twitter a while back and got a range of responses . Those are summarized in a <URL> . To paraphrase that summary ... open access to data open access to code open access to publications open source work must be reproducible needs to be web enabled The last bit , and I think this is an important component , is that open science is not binary . It occurs along a gradient . As for you second question , I would use reproducibility as a guide . The minimum data that needs to be accessible is that which allows for an anlalysis/project to be reproduced . Following the gradient theme , you could open up more than this , but that it is n't necessarily required .
There 's a reason CS folks cite when we obsess about conferences . The claim is that the field moves so quickly that conferences are more effective than journal for fast turn-around , and so better reflect the speed of developments . I think this statement is partly true ( conferences do have faster turnaround than CS journals ) but misses the point entirely ( there 's no reason journals CA N'T have faster turn around time ) . The real reason is the usual one . We got used to having conferences be the primary source of dissemination , and have no pressing reason to change . Having said that , the arxiv is more and more becoming the first choice of reading material and " hot off the presses " material , so I suspect that your question will become more and more moot as time goes on .
I would say several points related to the candidates such as How much in average do candidates publish per year ? Where do they publish ? What conferences they presented their papers in ? What are the impact factors for journals they publish in ? What new research questions or directions do they have ? How much citations did they received ? With whom in the group they can collaborate ? What funds do they have or can bring ? What experience in writing proposals do they have ? What are some similar proposals that received funds ? Where their research is going in the next 5-10 years ? What industry or academic experience do they have ? What skills do they have ? Can they enhance research group diversity ? Can they teach , present and discuss well ?
The main reason " Academics " would n't browse Kaggle to search for research problems is that most academics already have a field of interest , and are n't interested in doing data science research for the sake of figuring out some random problem defined by whoever decided to post the contest . Even if an algorithms researcher is looking to test out a particular technique that he just devised , he would probably first apply the technique to whatever dataset he was using originally before randomly testing it out on a dataset available on Kaggle . For what it 's worth , there are <URL> ; if anything , the data available in Kaggle competitions is probably poor relative to the richness in those data sets .
<URL> recently of the most cited papers in Web of Science . At the top , with more than 300k citations , was a methods paper : Protein measurement with the folin phenol reagent . Lowry , O. H. , Rosebrough , N. J. , Farr , A. L. &amp; Randall , R. J. J. Biol . Chem . 193 , 265 -- 275 ( 1951 ) .
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
It depends on where you 're presenting and who you 're presenting to . If this seminar/conference/class has a moderator who introduces you , then you do n't need to introduce yourself . Typically , this will be the case , instead of them just sending you on stage without an introduction . Either way , begin your presentation with a motivating example , which might also explain why you 're qualified to talk about the subject to your audience . " You might not think chemistry has a lot to do with squirrels , but it was recently discovered that squirrels ' pineal glands secrete a unique chemical that ... " Since you 're speaking to other students , be sure to keep the talk at a level that they can understand without a particular background in your field . And once you 've started well , do the rest of the presentation well too .
The purpose of adding words like " novel " and " innovative " is to weed out proposals that may be poorly researched and thus copying others or or involve repeating other works in a slightly different setting ( or equivalent ) . The phrasings makes rejecting proposals easier since it provides a critieria ( one among many ) against which it can be judged . Funding agencies are also keen to see their funding go to research that can be judged to contribute " significant " results . My experience says that what constitutes " novel " and " innovative " is difficult to assess in detail . In my field , environmental/earth science , some themes become " fashionable " or hot and signals these aspects , or rather absence means less likelihood to receive funding . These themes include finite element modelling ( 70s ) , acid rain ( 70s/80s ) and climate change ( currently ) . This can be seen as a communal will or interest to steer research in certain ways and so showing you can significantly contribute to these goals was/is more or less necessary to provide you with a good chance for obtaining funding . So to define " novel " and " innovative " will be difficult . And , as a side point , your research either is or is not " novel " or " innovative " , there are no degrees . You need to come up with ideas that are truly new ( testing new grounds ) or which promise results that are significantly advancing science but more importantly , you need to convince the reviewers in the funding agency about your case . This means to avoid " more of the same " proposals , to be sure your idea has not been worked on before ( know your field ) . A book , I strongly recommend for all is Friedland , A. , Fold , C.L. , 2009 . Writing Successful Science Proposals , Second Edition . Yale Univ. . Press
It is a valid parameter , but not the only valid parameter . It 's absolutely justified to ask , and consider , " Where did people in this group go when they were done ? " I have n't noticed MS alumni getting into top PhD programs . Does this say anything about the group 's quality or could it be just because of the students ? You need more information than just " did they get into top PhD programs " - unless a research group is very large , it 's likely that any patterns you see in the fates of MS students will be the result of stochasticity . For example : Are they ending up in private industry ? For many people , this is n't a failure , but a success . A group I was in sends many of it 's graduate students onward to jobs , and this is considered a success by all involved . Masters programs are not just one step in a PhD conveyor belt . The same is true for " R1 Tenure Track Positions " etc. . Many people do n't end up taking what is conventionally considered the " brass ring " of their track because they do n't actually want to . Did they want to go to a top tier program and could n't , or did they not want to ? These are two very different things , and will be easier to assess by talking to members of the group , rather than just browsing their alumni page . Is their alumni page actually accurate ? Do n't ever assume academic web pages are fully up to date . It 's a valid parameter consider when weighing choices , but I believe it would be a bad idea to eliminate a potential option simply because of their alumni page . You should also look at individuals . Where did the people who presented those important papers end up ? Is there someone " like you " who had the trajectory you did ? If not , it 's worth talking to them about .
In my experience , citation counts are considerably less important than recommendation letters , but they still matter , especially for tenure . For fresh PhDs , high citation counts are definitely helpful , but they 're not a hiring requirement for most fields in CS . But for tenure , it 's really hard to build a successful case without at least one high-impact ( post-thesis ) publication . Smart committees know to gather citation counts , publication counts , acceptance rates , impact factors , h-indices , and other quasi-objective numerical data from reasonable sources and to compare them with peers in the applicant 's field . ( For my promotion cases , for example , my citation counts were mined from Google Scholar , not ISI , and I was compared against other theoretical computer scientists , not other computational-geometers-who-play-with-surface-graphs . ) Alas , not every committee is smart .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
Plagiarism is copying someone else 's result and presenting it as an own result . It does n't seem you 're planning to do that . In general , there should n't be a problem to use a jointly developed software core for research in your and your friend 's dissertation . Research is a lot about collaboration , so I 'd view that rather positively . But it will be important that you distinguish results that were obtained jointly from individual results , and that you agree on that beforehand to avoid potentially difficult discussions down the road . Things to clarify would include : In how much detail do your dissertations need to describe the jointly developed core , and how much overlap is acceptable there ? That is something you need to discuss with your advisor as well . It may be problematic to include a substantial amount of jointly written text in the individual dissertations . Is there potential for a joint paper that you publish independently of your theses to describe the core software ? In your dissertations , you can then simply refer to that paper and avoid overlapping text there . Can you agree on specific contributions that everybody made to the software , have each of you focus on that for his dissertation , and refer to the friend 's dissertation for the other part ?
" Literature review " would be a good term . It refers to the section in a paper where you review the existing literature and show where your new piece of research fits in . Do n't confuse this with a " review article " , which summarizes and integrates a large number of previous publications , typically far more publications than you 'd review for an original article . A review article typically only does the synthesis , and does not add any original research of its own , although it may well point out gaps in existing research for subsequent investigations . In you want to draw specific attention to the fact that the question you will investigate has not been covered in previous research , you could call it " open questions " .
No . The nice thing about most academic departments is that the <URL> is fairly high such that if an individual PI is incapacitated , there is generally enough slack in the system to compensate . Most funding bodies allow for contingencies . They understand that things happen and that the funding often affects people other than the PI . In the case of the death of a PI , the funder would likely allow for a change in PI to take place . If there is not a single PI who has the required administrative and scientific experiences , co-PIs can be appointed ( e.g. , someone who has managed grants before and a post-doc who understands the research ) . Experiments being run by PhD students , post docs , and RAs , would likely continue unchanged . Experiments being run directly by the PI would probably cease immediately unless there were ethical concerns ( think a drug trial ) . In these cases there is probably someone else involved or a contingency plan in place . Supervision of PhD students would likely be covered by someone else on the thesis committee . Teaching and committee responsibilities would simply be reassigned . Immediate teaching duties will often be given to a post doc or graduate student .
When I get an invitation to contribute a book chapter ( or conference paper in an invited session ) , I usually ask myself the following questions : Can I have a reasonable contribution ready for the proposed submission deadline ? Is the venue I am invited to a good fit and does it provide the best possible visibility for my contribution ? Do I want to invite the person inviting me to similar occasions in the future ? Ideally , you should be able to answer at least questions 1 and 2 with " yes " before accepting the invitation . If your answer to question 2 would be " no " , it may still be wise to accept the invitation in view of question 3 . For this type of invitations , I would try to find a smaller contribution which fits the visibility of the proposed publication venue . In a book chapter , for example a summarizing synthesis of some of your previous results might be appropriate .
First things first : whenever you write again or otherwise contact your potential advisor , stay polite and respectful . Conduct yourself in the most professional manner you can . While you might feel your correspondent is acting unprofessionally in not responding at a rate that pleases you , asking again in anything that looks like a demanding tone is not going to reflect well on you . There are many possible reasons why your correspondent has n't replied to your first email yet , even 10 days down the line . You are probably already quite aware of the possibilities , but here are a few : He/she is simply busy . Is it a busy time of year ? Is it examination time ? Is he/she likely to busy marking/providing feedback . providing lectures ? Is he/she on holiday ? A quick check with the Department/School/Institute administration should answer this . There could be personal reasons . You do n't want to appear a demanding person when the academic is making preparations for a family member 's funeral - for example ! Extreme sitation , yes , but not impossible . With these possibilities in mind , you could write again to your potential advisor , reminding him/her that you are very keen to work together . I do not advise simply re-sending your original email unless you have good reason to believe that the original did n't reach its target - e.g. you have received a mailhost error relating to an undelivered message . I suspect this is not the case . In your follow-up email , refer to your previous email . Resending an email is similar to saying to someone " I SAID ... !!! " . In your follow-up email , I would acknowledge that the academic might well be very busy and that you would gratefully appreciate any time the academic could spend talking with you about research opportunities . Offer alternatives - you 've hinted at this - such as arranging a meeting or a telephone call at a time convenient for the academic . At this stage , be reasonably formal . Your spelling and grammar should be as good as you can make it . This indicates that you are taking this correspondence seriously , as should he/she . It is very easy to appear demanding , annoying or otherwise negative in an email , even if that is not your intention . Turn up the politeness up a few notches , even if you think it 's starting to be sickly and ingratiating . In emails , it is extremely easy to appear demanding or accusatory . You do n't have the advantage of being present in a conversation to send all those little non-verbal clues which make up the vast majority of human communication . I think that it is appropriate to mention that you have some expectations when you 'd like to have this interaction . You could mention that you are meeting with other advisers ( if true ) and that you 'd like to be in a position to make a decision in one/two month 's time . For this reason , you 'd like to have a meeting sometime in the next 1-2 weeks , if possible . Summary : You be unfailingly polite and professional , You put effort into your next email - do n't just resend a previous one , You suggest as many alternatives for an interaction you can think of , You provide some kind of time-scale for action .
From what you 've said by itself , it 's ambiguous . That is , if your paper really is on a topic not usually covered by that journal , then their remark is completely bland , just meaning what it says . If , at the other extreme , you are pretty sure that your paper 's topic is exactly what is covered in the journal , then , yes , their " recommendation " is just a polite form of rejection . If you are a beginner at this , it is possible that your understanding of what your own paper is about may have some quirks or limitations , or you 've presented it in a way that dis-served you , or you 've presented it in a way that confused or mis-directed the editors/referee , etc. . For example , giving inappropriate/inaccurate keywords can get a paper sent to an inappropriate referee , who may think the paper is misguided , while if you 'd given different keywords , a different referee might think it was mainstream and wonderful . Similarly , unfortunate choices in title , abstract , and introduction can set things off down the wrong path . Getting an opinion from an experienced person about the actual appropriateness of your paper for that venue is necessary before it 's possible to understand the situation .
This is an excellent question , for faculty as well as students ! How important are these points in evaluating the teaching capabilities of a student ? Obviously this varies significantly in different departments and institutions , but in my experience , the scores themselves are not that important . My department does pay attention to these numbers when allocating future TAships , but definitely not in isolation . Narrative reviews from the instructors carry significant weight . The people doing the assignments also know which courses are unpopular , and which instructors are irresponsible , and adjust the evaluation accordingly , at least in principle . In practice , there are only three evaluations : ( 1 ) truly outstanding TAs , who are considered for teaching awards ; ( 2 ) truly abysmal TAs , who are not rehired , at least without retraining ( and since we have a TAship requirement , this has teeth ) ; and ( 3 ) everyone else . When we evaluate tenure-track faculty candidates , teaching ability is usually a second-order concern , but it is a concern . Poor evaluations on an applicant 's CV are a red flag -- why did n't they just omit them ? Good evaluations are mostly a signal to look further . Teaching awards carry more weight . Recommendation letters that directly praise the applicant 's teaching ability -- with concrete and credible details -- are even better . Similar issues arise when evaluating faculty for tenure , with one big difference : omitting the teaching scores is not an option . How does one ensure that the students are sincere in their evaluation ? You ca n't . Sorry . However , I believe you can increase the fraction of sincere ( and positive ) responses by consistently treating your students with respect . Make your expectations clear from day one , and enforce them consistently . Invite feedback throughout the semester , and respond to it quickly and appropriately . Apologize quickly for mistakes , thank students publicly for useful suggestions , but do not buckle on high standards . Give timely , consistent , and useful feedback on coursework . Above all , do not waste your students ' time ; the correlation between hard work and low evaluations is much higher if the students do n't see any benefit to doing the work . < Insert standard confirmation bias warning here . > How does the TA make the best of a bad job [ if the instructor is irresponsible ] ? First , do your own job as best as you can . Second , raise your concerns with the instructor ; be respectful but brutally honest . If the instructor is unresponsive , raise your concerns with your instructor 's boss ; be respectful but brutally honest . ( Note : Disagreement is not the same as being unresponsive . ) If your instructor 's boss is also unresponsive , your department does n't really care about poor teaching ; they 're likely to ignore your evaluations , even if they are low . Apart from holding weekly office hours and lenient grading ( ! ) , what is the maximum a TA can do , after all ? There are many more things that TAs can do . At a minimum , hold office hours that the students actually find useful ; do n't just show up . Distribute practice problems , and offer feedback on the students ' solutions . Hold weekly review/discussion/problem-solving sessions . As aeismail suggests , write review notes . If the instructor covered too much , distill down their main points ; if the instructor did n't cover enough , expand on the key ideas they missed . Offer to give a few guest lectures , and then give fantastic guest lectures . More self-servingly : Make sure the students see you working to overcome your instructor 's shortcomings . If the students do n't see you fighting on their behalf ( even if you are ) , they 'll write you off as yet another useless academic , like your instructor . But if you can make them believe you 're on their side , they 'll reward you . I think this is why students often reward " lenient grading " ; if the students think the coursework is a waste of time , they 'll see lenient graders as their allies . Obviously this all takes time . As aeismail says , TAs usually have many other responsibilities , especially to their own classes , projects , research , families , and sanity . It is frighteningly easy for committed and caring TAs to find themselves being abused by less committed instructors ( or even departments ) . Set limits .
end question
start question
Why do academics publish ?
The first question is a relatively simple problem . Researchers have the utility of : some research being published in some rated venue : which will award them points according to some criteria . some research being cited , which will award also points according to some other criteria . some research being purchased : which will award some sweet additional income . some research being read : which does n't award any points per se , but helps to create some buzz around it , get cites , funding , etc. . This requires the research to be published before . " making a meaningful contribution to science/knowledge/understanding " . Look at the last bullet point , the rewards come from the inside of the researchers in that case , no raise , no money , no external reward . This means that if people focus on that too much they may not make any progress in their careers and they may actually fail in the search for funding or even a job . Therefore , successful people will have a strong interest/utility on the other points , the last one may or may not be important for them , but definitively secondary . They may say it 's the primary goal , but they wo n't act like that , or they will fail . I 'm an introvert and this sucks , but that is how the system is , it 's mathematical . The points and external rewards are very important . They may be important to finish a MSc or a PhD , to get a post-doc position , a job in industry , a tenured position , a raise , a project , funding , etc. . But we are not done yet . They do also have resources to get some attention : social networks ( twitter , linkedIn , etc. ) blogs conferences journals books etc. . Do you remember the last point ? , blogs seem to be perfectly suitable to making this kind of contribution , but they are not peer reviewed and they do n't award any points , therefore , they are used like twitter . Get buzz , get attention , then link the paper so that people can read it . You can even summarize the paper in the blog so that people can cite it without actually reading it , which is wrong on so many levels that actually some of them cancel each other and happens to be right in some levels , at least IMHO . Finally have some pieces of research that they can split like salami or maybe put together as a compilation to create a book , or they can even try to split , publish in conferences , then put together as a journal , then join with even more stuff and write a book . So basically in the end researchers try to publish the research using the resources available trying to maximize the utility of their research , effort , time , publications , etc. . Those who do it right ( not focusing on the last point of the utility ) get to do more and more research , and so the academia system works , and so it is driven . Basically this is a problem of cybernetics . This is an emergent information system that is mostly driven in that way , with those dynamics and that convergence . Maybe we would have a better system if it was explicitly engineered and not emergent , but as usual , the ones that have the most power to change it are the ones that are most favored by the current system . There is always some strength in the stability of the status quo . About the second question , the answer for me is " no " . I guess that 's why I 'm here writing with a pseudonym .
GRE/TOEFL scores are used in a number of different ways ( some of which are alluded to above ) GRE scores are sometimes used as a university-level filter ( if your GRE score is < X , then you 'll need a strong support letter from your department to get admitted ) TOEFL scores are used as a filter for giving people TA funding ( if your TOEFL score is too low , you ca n't be assigned to be a TA , and if it 's lower , you ca n't even get RA funding ) More informally , the GRE/TOEFL scores are used as a " do you even care ' filter : for a CS program , a quantitative score less than 600 might be considered to be a warning that the candidate does n't even care enough to prep for it . But for Ph.D programs , the GRE/TOEFL are either used as a high-bar disqualification filters to prune applications ( in top schools ) , or as low-bar disqualification filters to prune the non-serious applications .
Making an OpenCourseWare course is n't as simple as getting a team of kids with videocameras and uploading the course onto YouTube . There is a surprisingly high standard that the Professor and the University attempts to meet when they prepare a course to be deposited onto OpenCourseWare . Stanford had built entire classrooms for the purpose of sharing online classes . Many of them have 3-4 cameras controlled by two operators while another is entirely responsible for the sound . Classes that require a balance between boardwork , slides , and discussion require a very well-trained team of videographers to recognize what they are supposed to be looking at without breaking the rhythm of the course and capturing the intent of the lecturer . Ask any Professor how prepared their lectures are . Despite how absent-minded most professors seem , there is a large amount of practice and slidology behind each lecture . OCW adds a whole other layer to preparation since the course actually has to run on schedule and conclude with the course completed . The materials used require additional thought since OCW is limited to only a single camera . Look at some of Yale 's early OTC courses ; the professor will make references to a figure and the camera will be focused on his gestures rather than the actual information that they are trying to portray . Lastly online courses are extremely expensive and do n't truly make the return on investment as one would imagine . For instance , Utah State was forced to <URL> .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
As a general rule , you can not publish anything as original research that has already been published . ( You may be able to reprint it in other venues , but most research journals do not do this . ) Of course , the trick is what counts as " already published " . Nowadays , many publishers ( including all mathematics publishers , for example ) do not count informal distribution on the internet as prior publication . It 's common not to count extended abstracts from conference proceedings , although the journal may require some revisions or extensions . Nobody counts submitting a dissertation as prior publication , even if the university makes it available for download or purchase , and technical reports are generally in the same category . On the other hand , publication as a " real book " definitely counts as prior publication and would rule out journals . Of course , this just brings up the question of what a " real book " is . Basically , if it 's published by a serious academic publisher , with some nontrivial selection and editorial advice , then that counts as publication . On the other hand , if it 's some random publisher printing copies of Ph.D. theses and selling them online , then you could make a strong case that it 's not really published ( and that this is not so different from ordering a dissertation copy ) . However , I think you need to discuss this explicitly when submitting your paper . For example , you could add a sentence to your submission letter along the lines of " This work is based on my thesis from University X , which is available for sale by Y but has not been traditionally published " . It 's much better to deal with this upfront than to have someone later ask " Wait , why is someone selling copies of this work online ? "
Taking it that your asking about a nom de plume ( aka " pen name " ) for reasons of conspicuousness , rather than for reasons of anonymity : Yes , it is possible to publish under something other than your legal name . A nom de plume is n't that unusual in academia , particular for folk with common names who would otherwise be unfindable in literature databases . You need to make sure that your legal identity is sufficiently tied to your nom de plume , so that there 's not going to be any arguing about it . Some people adopt double-barrelled surnames for their noms de plume : others add a distinctive first or second initial . As long as its sufficiently close to your real name , that should be sufficient . Note that this will entail your nom de plume effectively becoming your name for academic purposes : it 's what will be on your email correspondence , your web page , your conference name-badges , and so on . You 'll just have to do a bit of tweaking with university administration so that payroll , legal , and travel arrangements are all in your real name , not your pen name .
Nobody will notice or care , unless you share a last name with your wife , in which case the strongest reaction is likely to be , " aw how cute , a husband and wife published a paper together . "
Reviews are communications to the editor , and an effective review tells the editor what the article is about ( in that reviewer 's opinion ) , using significantly fewer words than authors typically use . If an editor has to process a couple hundred submissions per year , it 's not possible for him/her to carefully read every paper , so the editor will especially care if the reviewers agree on what the paper purports to show and whether the paper actually shows it .
I would say instead that it would be much more surprising if these departments all had the same names , particularly for relatively new and cross-disciplinary areas of work like in your example . The domains of science are broad and overlapping , and there are many ways that the whole domain can end up being parsed into departments by different institutions , just like <URL> . Given that there are many reasonable possible clusterings and names , the actual determinants tend to be very contingent and historical . Among these are : Interdepartmental politics , including which part of a university wants to sponsor the new department , which faction of an old department wants to split away . The viewpoint of the faculty forming the department Popularity of subjects over time : small departments merge and large departments split . There are many other possible causes as well . Thus , the question is not : " Why are they different ? " but " Why would you expect them to be the same ? "
The question is : is this possible ? If you have signed over the copyright of your paper to this journal , or given them an irrevocable license to distribute , then they do n't have to take down the paper just because you have asked them . In fact , if they are a reputable journal and the paper has already been published , they should n't just take down the paper without a very good reason , because that would distort the scientific record . and what is consequences for submitting the same manuscript to another journal ? Submitting a manuscript to a journal that is already published in another journal is called " duplicate publication " , and it is considered a kind of research misconduct . Consequences can include <URL> , being banned from submitting papers to that journal for some period of time , or <URL> for some period of time .
It 's hard to say about any specific fellowship ( especially without knowing which one ) , but I 've served on graduate admissions committees where we 've asked applicants a similar question . I do n't recall any case in which I thought someone 's answer changed whether they would be accepted , so I do n't think you should worry much about this . I see three ways in which the information is relevant . I 'll phrase everything in terms of my experience with graduate admissions , but the same reasoning probably applies for fellowships . Sometimes we learn a little more about the applicant from where they decided to apply , since we learn which sorts of departments interest them the most . The main case in which this could signal weakness is " reach schools " : if you apply to a top department and tell them the only other schools you are applying to are much lower-ranked , then it amounts to saying you do n't expect to be admitted . I 'd be wary of answering in that case , but I would n't worry about it otherwise . Knowing where else a student has applied can help in recruiting , since it means we can take into account other offers or deadlines they may face and can make a pitch based on what we expect their other options might be . ( One way this plays out in practice is it helps us guess who might benefit from extra encouragement since they may have received an offer from Department X this week . ) Departments are interested in this sort of information for statistical reasons , so they can keep track of which other departments applicants consider similar to or competitive with them . This reason has nothing to do with evaluating applications or recruiting students , and it could be satisfied with an anonymous questionnaire , but that 's more work to administer than simply adding a question to the application ( and it might get a lower response rate ) .
Textbooks take a lot of time and effort to write , so why would a university support their faculty to do so ? Why would n't they ? Writing textbooks is an important form of scholarship , with great influence on the field , and this is something universities should strongly encourage . The only reason I can think of not to support textbook writing is the profit issue , but this is not generally an important factor , since very few textbooks make a lot of money . The fact that U.S. faculty are allowed to keep the royalties from textbooks they write is a historical contingency , and there 's no reason why the system has to work that way . However , I think it 's a good system in practice . Overall , the incentives to write good textbooks are too low , since both the financial rewards and the academic rewards are generally small compared with the time commitment . Removing the ( small ) profit motive would leave the incentives even lower , and I think the net effect would outweigh the tiny increase in university funding . What about the grad students that edit and also work on the textbook ? It seems as if they are working to fill the faculty member 's pocket while being [ partially ] supported by the department/university and expected to do research . If grad students are being enlisted as unpaid labor , then that 's a real problem , but in my experience it 's not common . If there 's any prospect of nontrivial royalties , then it 's unethical to ask students to work without compensation . Furthermore , the arrangement needs to be formal enough to include a copyright transfer ( otherwise , the students will own the copyright to their contributions ) .
From what I have observed , having a specific deadline for abstracts is used for two main reasons : having a rough idea of the number of submissions and organise a bidding for the reviewers . Having the number of submissions can help deciding of a possible deadline extension and possible to " recruit " more PC members or reviewers if the number largely exceeds the expectation . Organising a bidding based on the abstract allow the PC members to indicate their preference for each paper ( e.g. , I want to review this paper , I could review this paper , I could n't review this paper ) , so that when the actual papers arrive , the distribution is already organised .
I 've worked with a fair number of either researcher MDs or MD/PhDs , and myself have only a PhD , so I 'll try to give my perspective : Do You Need One : Probably not , if you 're only interested in the scientific questions about what you are doing , and are not particularly concerned with it 's direct application to patient care or the clinical setting . Basically , if there is a department outside a medical school that can house your research , you 're likely fine . Why Would Someone Pick One Up ? : There are many reasons for a researcher to have a MD or an MD/PhD - they 're interested in the clinical aspects of the research science they do , have seen their interests evolve over time toward more research and less patient care , or are in research areas that necessitate having the expertise that comes along with having an MD. . There are some medical school programs that are more oriented towards producing new researchers than practicing doctors , and medical schools are massive sources of clinical research in the U.S. It 's really not surprising there 's a number of professors out there with MDs - my doctoral advisor was one of them . There 's also some...field-specific traditions . For example , there are tons of MDs working in infectious disease research and epidemiology , because it spawns fairly naturally from " Treat this weird infection " to " Why does this weird infection infected X people ? " to " How do we stop this weird infection from spreading " .
Well , search for publications of a John Smith ( no middle name ) , or a Lee Wang , or any common name , and you 'll have a hard time identifying them because of the many homonyms ... Publishers and database owners are trying hard to help users , by trying to guess who is who ( Web of Science calls this " Unique author set " ) , but their algorithms do n't do very well . As an example , I have a colleague who has a paper completely outside her main field . None of these algorithms pick it up . Thus , because a researcher 's name is not unique , many people argue that there is need of a unique ID scheme . ( Others disagree : " I 'm not a number ! " ) . As a researcher , the benefits are : easier for others to identify your articles in databases easier to keep track of your citations , especially for items other than conventional journal articles possibilities for cool web hyperlinks , like DOI has brought The Orcid registry was <URL> , so noöne uses it so far ... My own concern about it is that I do n't know in detail on the ORCID consortium will use the data they will be able to mine . In particular , this worries me : I consent to the privacy policy and terms and conditions of use , including allowing those who access the database to make commercial uses of the public data .
Another reason to write an advanced text is that you have developed a body of research around a topic , and it 's stabilized enough that you can present the material in a structured form . The incentive here is that the distilled understanding helps you understand your field , and it helps others work in the area as well . In addition , a well-written book can get you lots of citations , impact , and recognition ( the same kinds of things you get with papers , but possibly even more ) .
It is up to the editor whether to accept or reject . The reviewers only make recommendations . Even if the reviewers give positive recommendations , the editor can decide to reject a paper . If both reviewers give negative recommendations , it is much less likely for the editor to accept a paper . If there is a mix of opinions the editor has to make a judgment , subject to whatever internal procedures the journal has in place . It seems like , this time , the decision was favorable for you .
Typically I include an explicit recommendation in the report to be shared with the authors when I have a strong opinion , but not necessarily otherwise . In the former case , the editor can still decide either way ( referees make recommendations , not decisions ) , but if they disagree with me at least the authors will know for sure what the referee thought . what is the point of adding the decision statement while the overall evaluation ( i.e. on EasyChair system ) explicitly says it ? is it just the reviewer habit ? It may be habit , and it may reflect uncertainty about what information from the web form will be available to the authors .
No , there is no need to . Uploading to Arxiv is more than enough . Your Google scholar profile finds all arxiv papers and will notify those who follow your work about your new paper . You can also add a link to the arxiv PDF in your university and personal page . That way , you will only have to update the arxiv version of your paper , without having to ever update again your personal and university webpage . For academia.edu and researchgate I would never bother to upload PDFs . If someone is interested in your work and can not google your name to find the arxiv uploaded version , then I doubt you will get anything meaningful or useful ( e.g. , citation , collaboration ) from such a person , no matter where you upload your papers .
I 've seen two reasons for this . The more worrisome reason is the one mentioned by EnergyNumbers in the comments , namely that some people just collect degrees . In particular , they may feel having two Ph.D. s would look exceptionally impressive , or they may be unable to settle on a specialization , or they may feel that getting another degree is somehow preferable to getting a job . These could be legitimate as personal desires , but they are counterproductive for a research career . The other reason is to recover from a bad career start . Sometimes someone 's grades keep them from getting into a good graduate program , or they face other constraints ( geographical or financial ) in their choice of programs , or they fail to connect well with their advisor . They may eventually get a Ph.D. , but not under good circumstances , and a second Ph.D. might lead to a much better career . The difference between this case and the first case is that these students do n't actually want a second Ph.D. as such . They regretfully feel they need one to achieve their career goals , but they wish it had been their first and only Ph.D. . Recovering from a bad start is a less worrisome reason to seek a second Ph.D. , but of course the challenge is figuring out which students have moved beyond their past difficulties and which have not .
end question
start question
Should I include web links in my statement of purpose ?
My feeling is that whether including a link is a good idea or a bad idea depends on how you are using it . A statement of purpose should be a generally self-contained document . Thus : If your statement of purpose is difficult to fully comprehend without following the link , it would be in a problem ( whether in computer science or elsewhere ) If the statement of purpose is complete without the link , however , and the link is essentially an faster alternative to googling for more information , then I would find it a useful courtesy to the reader .
Here is how I would think about it : You were at the government lab when you did the research , so its logo definitely needs to be there You are preparing the logo and presenting the poster while at the university , so it 's reasonable for its logo to be there as well . With such things , it 's usually better to err on the side of inclusiveness : people or organizations are much more likely to feel it 's problematic to not be included than to feel it 's problematic to be included , as long as there is some reasonable connection .
If you have published a paper , you should include it in your CV . It does not matter what language the paper is in . For the aid of people who do not speak the language , however , you may wish to include a translation of the paper title as a note , e.g. , : J. Caesar , Commentarii de Bello Gallico [ Commentaries on the Gallic war ] , Caesar House Press , 49 BC , ( in Latin )
No , a statement of thanks in the form you have described has no place in a statement of purpose . The statement of purpose should be a concise , focused document . Everything in there should be there for a specific purpose : to convince the readers that you would be a strong addition to their department . Anything that does n't serve that purpose distracts from that purpose and does n't belong in there . The personal statement should give concrete evidence of your promise as a member of the academic community , giving the committee an image of you as a person . None of the things you have written in your thanks " give concrete evidence of your promise as a member of the academic community " so they do not belong there . Besides for being ineffective as part of your application for graduate admissions , it 's also somewhat ineffective as an expression of gratitude . Private thanks expressed to the person you are thanking are nice ; public thanks ( like in a thesis , or a Nobel prize acceptance speech ) are also nice . What 's the point of thanking someone in a private document , that they 're not the intended audience of ? If you want to thank your mom , send her a letter , or call her on the phone and thank her .
My supervisor asked me to make an Abbreviations and Symbols part to my thesis This is a reasonable request : when there are many symbols , a list can be definitely helpful to the reader . Now , obviously I wo n't put every variable ( and abbreviation ) into this list . You wo n't put every variable , but you surely want to put any abbreviation . What should the criteria be for putting an entry to the list ? I suggest you to put : special quantities which are defined in your work ; special operators and functions ; mathematical spaces ; and all the abbreviations , even those you think are well known in your field . I also have tried to explain the variables where I 'm using them , is this now redundant when done in conjunction with the list ? No , it 's not redundant because a list of symbols does not typically give the complete definition , but just a short one . Actually , it would be also useful to list the page number where a certain symbol has been defined for the first time . Additionally , should the symbols and abbreviations appear in the list in alphabetical or appearance order ? If you can define an alphabetical order , go for it . Unfortunately , this is not always possible ( in a universally recognized way ) with symbols . In any case , I 'd separate symbols and abbreviations .
You have to specify which discipline , but for the social sciences the statement of purpose is the most important item in your portfolio . We also look at grades , GREs , and letters but we scrutinize the statement the most . A good statement can resuscitate a candidate with middling grades , a bad statement can condemn an otherwise good student .
I ca n't speak for all disciplines but in biomedical science this is generally considered an inefficient way of writing because the same sentence can be simplified to My reason ( s ) of shifting to biology from physics is ( are ) ... It 's also considered tacky but I probably have to attribute that to overuse and misuse . I will only use hypophora if the statement is highly unusual or seemingly illogical . This is a bad use because the statement is not dramatic : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling . Why ? Because ... Contrasting to : To make tea I first need to bring the water to boiling with a silver spoon in the kettle . Why ? Because ... is probably synchronizing better with the readers ' mental rhythm : " Huh ? Why the heck would you put a silver spoon in it ? " Then the following " Why ? " would serve a better role : to resonate with the readers . Surely enough in my own field nothing is dramatic enough for me to deploy this expression . Is " shifting from physics to biology " unusual enough to raise eyebrows ? I am not sure without too much context . My gut sense is perhaps not because I 'd categorize them both under the school of science and they do go together quite well . I 'd think " shifting to biology after spending 10 years studying physics " or " shifting to biology from classical string performance study " may probably deserve a " Why ? " Although , this is purely opinion . The part after the " Because ... " deserves attention as well . Make sure it 's followed by a very compelling reason , or your " Why ? " may be tainted with a taste of self-doubting or still-on-a-soul-searching instead of persuasion . In any case , expressions like such are unlikely very harmful if used sparingly . They also serve to inject some liveliness into the statement . I 'd consider using no more than once in a statement acceptable .
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
Regardless of whether it is homework or any other sort of technical document , the correct date to put on a technical document is the date of its most recent revision . If the history is important , other dates can be added as well ( e.g. the submitted/revised/accepted dates on some journal papers ) . As for your professors never saying anything ... they likely had no reason or even ability to discriminate between the different systems you used to date , and it likely did not matter for the purposes of the class .
You joined a PhD program without a master 's degree ? Well ... a master of science is about doing an small version of a PhD . In that sense , it could be beneficial to show that you do have some experience in research . On the other hand , the fact that you left , probably without results or something to prove how well did you do it so far , might not be so positive . But anyway , honesty should be the most important thing , and you should n't hide what you have done before . Also , it is definitely more beneficial to fill those gaps on your CV with the PhD time , instead of letting them think that you were just lounging around ...
In writing , there is a general principle of " show and do n't tell " which applies . It 's not the question of to anecdote or not per se , but whether the illustration provides some insight into how you are unique . If a ( short ) anecdote can illustrate something important about your creativity , initiative , or problem-solving skills , then it will help you stand out and can be useful to include . For example , compare these two statements : I founded a student group that teaches underprivileged high-schoolers to program . When I was growing up , an important turning point in my education was when a friend 's older brother taught me programming . I wanted other people to have the same experience , so I organized some friends and reached out to local teachers . Together , we founded a student group that teaches underprivileged high-schoolers to program . The second is longer , but it tells a lot more about why what the writer did was significant and shows how they expressed initiative and motivation .
I 've never seen anything like this on a CV . If you have other publications , I certainly would n't include this . It would look like you are trying too hard to find something to put on your CV , which could do more harm than good . Let your publications stand for themselves . One thing you could do when describing the various jobs you 've had , is to include the statistical analysis work in the description of the activities you performed in that job . You could also mention it in the cover letter , if it is relevant for the job . Finally , do bring it up in the interview as an example of how you work in a collaboration .
Assuming that the thesis preparation guide from your university says nothing about this , I would approach the question by considering the purpose of the figures list . The point of the figures list is to make it easier to find these key elements of a very large document ; the caption fragment is intended to help a reader find the figure that they are looking for . There are two typical approaches to making these such caption fragments , either of which might be reasonable : List the exact caption for each figure , so that the list can be more complete . In this case , you should keep the references , since they 're part of the exact caption . Make a one-line summary of each caption , so that the list can be more compressed . In this case , you should remove the references , since you are making a digest in any case . If you have lots of very long captions , option # 2 is probably better , as otherwise it defeats the point of the index . If your captions are all fairly short , then option # 1 is probably better , since it provides a fuller summary of the contents of each figure .
There are several algorithms for scheduled repetition of information on flash cards . It 's possible that the software you liked uses one of these . This Wikipedia article on <URL> discusses Pimsleur 's graduated-interval recall and Leitner system , among others . This is n't the easiest topic to search for , but the Wikipedia article calls it " spaced repetition " , and includes a list of alternative names . That should help you do further research .
The secret to getting a good letter from someone is making sure they 're going to write you a good letter before you have them write one . You should never need to look at a letter someone wrote for you , as you should basically know what they 're going to write without ever having looked at it . In most cases , if someone does n't feel comfortable writing a 100 % positive letter about you , they 'll let you know when you ask them and recommend you get someone else to write the letter . With that in mind , it is definitely better to forgo this choice , for the reason you suggested ... people will likely feel more comfortable to write freely and honestly when they know you wo n't read it . Regarding the procedure , I 'm not familiar with the mandate , but if it is a US mandate , then they 'll probably show it to you after a lot of waiting . It is definitely uncommon for someone to ask to see a letter written about them , and it likely would be looked down upon .
Are these works available in any published form or any other permanent online form , such as a technical report ? If so then cite . If not , then there 's nothing to cite . In my opinion , it would look strange to cite a project done in some previous course . What you can do is put an acknowledgment in the back of your thesis/paper to your previous " co-authors " .
Reposting my answer from the original thread There have been multiple studies about this over the years and in different fields , indicating a link rot on the order of a few percent per year . Here are some , in chronological order : Randy J. Carnevale , Dominik Aronsky , The life and death of URLs in five biomedical informatics journals , International Journal of Medical Informatics , Volume 76 , Issue 4 , April 2007 , Pages 269-273 , doi : <URL> . states Of the 19,108 references extracted from 606 printed and 86 in-press articles , 1112 ( 5.8 % ) references contained a URL . Of the 1049 unique URLs , 726 ( 69.2 % ) were alive , 230 ( 21.9 % ) were dead , and 93 ( 8.9 % ) were comatose . URLs from in-press articles included 212 URLs , of which 169 ( 79.7 % ) were alive , 21 ( 9.9 % ) were dead , and 22 ( 10.4 % ) were comatose . The average annual decay , or link rot , rate was 5.4 % . Edmund Russell , Jennifer Kane ( 2008 ) . The Missing Link : Assessing the Reliability of Internet Citations in History Journals . Technology and Culture , Volume 49 , Number 2 , pp. 420-429 . doi : <URL> states We examined the reliability of worldwide web citations in two leading history journals ( Journal of American History and American Historical Review ) over seven years and found that 18 percent of web links cited over that period were inactive . The problem increased over time . In articles published seven years earlier , 38 percent of web citations were dead . Jason Hennessey and Steven Xijin Ge ( 2013 ) : A cross disciplinary study of link decay and the effectiveness of mitigation techniques . BMC Bioinformatics 14 ( Suppl 14 ) : S5 . doi : <URL> states we downloaded 18,231 Web of Science ( WOS ) abstracts containing " http " in the title or abstract from the years under study ( 1996-2010 ) , out of which 17,110 URLs ( 14,489 unique ) were extracted and used . We developed Python scripts to access these URLs over a 30-day period . For the period studied , 69 % of the published URLs ( 67 % of the unique ) were available on the live Internet , the Internet Archive 's Wayback Machine had archived 62 % ( 59 % unique ) of the total and WebCite had 21 % ( 16 % unique ) . Overall , 65 % of all URLs ( 62 % unique ) were available from one of the two surveyed archival engines . Klein M , Van de Sompel H , Sanderson R , Shankar H , Balakireva L , Zhou K , et al. ( 2014 ) Scholarly Context Not Found : One in Five Articles Suffers from Reference Rot . PLoS ONE 9 ( 12 ) : e115253 . doi : <URL> . looked at link rot in article corpora from arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC : All three corpora show a moderate , yet alarming , link rot ratio for references made in recent articles , published in 2012 : 13 % for arXiv , 22 % for Elsevier , and 14 % for PMC . Not surprisingly when considering the dynamic nature of the web , for older articles the link rot ratio increases in all corpora . For publication year 2005 , the link rot ratio stands at 18 % , 41 % , 36 % for arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC , respectively . Going back to the earliest publication year in our corpora , 1997 , the ratios become 34 % , 66 % , and 80 % , respectively . Zittrain , J , Albert , K and Lessig , L . ( 2014 ) . Perma : scoping and addressing the problem of link and reference rot in legal citations . Harvard Law Review 127 : 176 -- 196 . surveyed law journals and court decisions , with the following observations We documented a serious problem of reference rot : more than 70 % of the URLs within the above mentioned journals , and 50 % of the URLs within U.S. Supreme Court opinions suffer reference rot -- meaning , again , that they do not produce the information originally cited . I also think I had seen a study somewhere that indicated that even " early online " articles start out at about 5-10 % link rot , i.e. they start rotting well before official publication . Could not find that right now , though .
The context for what the CV is going to be used for is key . I have a single CV that includes " everything " since I started grad school and selected things from before then including seemingly unimportant part time jobs . Having a long CV makes it easier for me to create short CVs because it means I need to delete things instead of remember things . For your intended context , I would not include the work experience , but might include the degree in politics . Including that degree will likely lead people looking at your CV to think you are older ( which might be a pro or a con ) . If you are worried about age discrimination , I would drop it completely .
Yes , I would certainly mention it , especially when applying to schools where undergraduate research is a focus , or those that have a thesis-based masters program . The " teaching statement " does n't have to be limited to classroom teaching ; it is reasonable to mention any activities related to educating students .
There is no automatic solution to this - it is an extremely time-consuming labour , sometimes performed by bibliometricians - and often only by those with access to full editions of either database ( not the web-interfaces , with strict limitations to download sizes ) . It is also a tricky subject , as the defionition of e.g. a statistics paper may differ from what you are actually looking at : journal categories . Papers on any topic are also published in journals not directly related hereto , there are plenty of translational and multi-disciplinary journals as well - in other words , what may appear to be a trivial task is actually very complex .
end question
start question
Are there tools to find a subset of references shared by two or more publications ?
The process of finding the intersection of the references in a given set of papers is known as <URL> and was first proposed by M. M. Kessler in 1963 in a paper that sadly remains <URL> . Kessler was thinking about doing this for pairs of papers but of course you could do this for an arbitrary number . What might also be interesting would be to look for the set of papers reachable by following citation trails backward in time through any number of steps . I am unaware of any on-line tools that perform this type of comparison for you , though it would not be hard to build such a thing if you had access to a big enough citation graph .
I would n't worry about this , unless you have some reason to think you are particularly at risk for having an idea stolen . Ideas are generally not the bottleneck in research . Any experienced researcher will have many more ideas than there is time to investigate , and the hard part is actually carrying out the research well . This means there is little or no incentive to steal untested ideas , especially in comparison with the risk of professional embarrassment from an accusation of theft . When I 've seen impressive ideas in graduate school or job applications , I 've admired the applicant more than the idea . Sometimes there have been cases where it would be exciting to work on this topic with the applicant , but I 've never seen a case where an initial idea was so obviously great in isolation that I wish I could take it up myself without involving the applicant . That 's not to say theft ca n't happen , but I do n't think it 's a likely or worrisome threat . There 's also not much you can do to prevent it in this scenario . You can create enough documentation to prove that you had the idea yourself , but it 's much harder to prove that the other person had n't already had the same idea independently ( which does happen on occasion ) . You might be able to prove that someone behaved like a jerk by not telling you that they were competing with you , but you probably ca n't prove that they stole your idea . Given that it 's not a big risk and is n't easy to address , I 'd recommend not worrying about it .
Unfortunately , the reason you ca n't find a clear statement on this issue is because there is n't one . The answer depends heavily on the field and the particular conference , and there is n't necessarily an absolute answer even in a specific case . It may depend on why you care : You may care yourself , because you want your paper to be carefully archived and made available in perpetuity . In that case , it depends on whether a long-lasting , trustworthy organization has committed to providing access forever ( and whether they have archiving contingency plans in case they go out of business ) . You may need to make this distinction to assist in evaluating your CV . In that case , the evaluators probably care primarily whether the papers are carefully refereed and in their final form , but the only way to know for sure is to ask them what their criteria are . You may be wondering whether you can publish an updated version of your conference paper in a journal . This depends on the customs in your field , and it requires agreement from both the conference and the journal . The publishing agreement for the conference should specify what sorts of further publication are allowable ( if it does not , then you should be sure to ask , since saying nothing suggests they do not expect any further publication at all ) , and the submission instructions for the journal may also address this issue . If your submission is a revision of a conference paper , you should always specify this fact clearly and give a precise reference somewhere on the first page and in the cover letter , to make sure nobody could accuse you of hiding the previous publication . The answers to these questions can vary . For example , major theoretical CS conferences are archival in sense 1 ( permanent archiving and availability ) but not 2 or 3 ( papers are not necessarily intended to be in their final form and definitive versions may be published elsewhere ) .
Although far from perfect , <URL> is one citation-based indicator often used to quantify how quickly a field or journal is moving . It basically looks at how long a paper takes to get half of all its citations . So for example , a fast moving field might have a citation half-life of 4 years , whereas a slower moving field might have a citation half-life of over 10 years . In the Journal Citation Reports you can see these values for each journal . Of course , there is the question of what exactly this means . For example , I believe fields like statistics and mathematics have much longer citation half lives , perhaps because seminal articles remain important . Understanding citation half-life is also important when you want to compare impact factors for journals across fields , or compare citation counts and h-indexes across scholars .
I would like to answer this question for the best interest of the student 's , not yours . You are supervising bachelor students . They may go to academia or industry after graduation . If the student will pursue academic career after he graduates , then you should tell him to use the tools that are widely used in academia because it 's for his best interest . I think force is a too strong word . To convince him is what you would do . However , if he will go to industry , why waste his time to learn something he probably will never use for the rest of his life ? If the student does n't know what he wants to do after he graduates , it 's time for him to think about it now . Is n't it ? Here is my personal experience while I was in industry . I had to produce some document which contained math equations . I wanted to use LaTex . MS word was the tool I was told to use because of maintainability issue ( no one else in my department knew how to use Latex ) . I had to follow the order . Matlab is another story . It 's also used in industry .
If you have institutional access to the <URL> you can find the definitions given by various standards . Both framework and library are present in several standards . For example , from IEEE Std 610.12-1990 , IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology : software library A controlled collection of software and related documentation designed to aid in software development , use , or maintenance . Types include master library , production library , software development library , software repository , system library . Syn : program library .
What can a mentor gain from the mentor/mentee relationship ? Altruistic answers : Passing on learned knowledge and lessons is a hallmark of a society . What you learned as a student , employee , employer , citizen , etc. is important so that once your brain and the brains of others in your generation are pushing up daisies , the knowledge is n't lost , and repeating mistakes can be avoided . Many people consider this a satisfying endeavor . As a role model , you can demonstrate moral , ethical , compassionate , etc. strategies for using the education you got from the school . Knowing that you 've led someone down an ethical path is a good feeling . You can act as a sounding board for your mentee 's questions about your field , and for the types of questions that do n't routinely come up in class . There is a certain satisfaction in being able to answer questions based on your experience . There might be new ideas that your mentee knows about your field that you can learn from . While you pass on your wisdom , you also have the opportunity to learn some of the new ideas that are being taught today . Less altruistic answers : Depending on your field , having been a mentor looks good on a resume or in an interview . In your case , you 'll gain points with your former professor , who might be more inclined to write you a good letter of recommendation some day . Decidedly bad answers : Steer the kid in the wrong direction , and that 's one less competitor ! You might get your lab cleaned because " it builds character . " In academia , if your mentee has good ideas , you can steal them and publish the results yourself .
I suppose some senior people may publish exclusively on arXiv but they are a minority and I ca n't think of any examples right now . Publishing in mathematics takes a long time . Journal backlogs of multiple years are common enough that if you wait for your paper to appear in print it is already old . This is less of a problem in the other subjects that arXiv covers but still ... So what does publishing on arXiv get the author ? Primarily it gives the paper a time stamp and makes it publicly available . Putting up a paper is fast , it only takes a few minutes and it gives a reference number so that you can cite it in a talk or in a paper . Normally you would have to wait until you get page numbers from a journal . And if you are giving a talk on your paper when you have just finished the work that might still be years in the future . One interesting feature of publishing on arXiv is that you can write small notes and put those up . You can write the " user 's guide " version of a paper . You can post a supplement to a paper that would n't be publishable on its own . Ultimately what it all boils down to is that people post documents to arXiv that they want other people to see and hopefully read . As for prestige , no . There really is n't any as far as I know .
There is nothing wrong or unusual in submitting two papers on a single conference . For specific detail you should refer to the conference author guide . In my experience , there exists an upper bound of papers ( about 3-4 ) , but I have never encountered a conference where only a single paper was permitted . The acceptance or rejection is individual , every paper is peer-reviewed on its own account . You should keep in mind that the conference will charge every paper separately . You should also watch the presentation schedule for any conflicts ( though , they are very unlikely )
Many computer science venues are fairly picky about their citation styles and also use highly abbreviated citation styles that do n't give any option for including additional information like a page number . If page numbers are critical to your citation , then you have two options for how to include them while conforming to the required style : If you only use one narrow set of pages in the book , use an " in-book " style citation ( @inbook in BibTeX ) that includes the page numbers in the reference . Alternately , or if you refer to more than one set of pages , you can include the pages in the text rather than the citation : Bla bla is considered very important , as described on page 210 -- 214 of [ 52 ] .
Update from March 2016 : it seems like ISI Knowledge offers citation counts with person-level self-citations taken out . Any of that should be treated as experimental , of course . Do n't know if this could work for a journal . I do n't think any of the existing systems take out the self-citations . The publishers and journals are not interested in seeing reduced impact factors , so few editorial boards and fewer yet commercial publishers would be interested in anybody producing such rankings . If a discipline has its independent referencing and citations systems , they might be interested in such more objective analysis -- e.g. , economists have their CitEc ( Citations in Economics ) , a part of RePEc ( Research Papers in Economics ) , which does track self-citations ( see the 2012 Nobel prize winners , <URL> and <URL> as examples ... the first one has as many self-citations as the second one , total citations ) . I would venture a guess that mathematicians might have a similar system . But I doubt that natural or social sciences do . The high impact journals are obviously important for publishing , getting good academic jobs and getting tenured . However , impact factor may only tell a part of the story , and some disciplines have reputable journals that may not have the highest possible IFs . Let me take again economics as an example that I am familiar with . In most US departments , you 'd get tenured if you have a paper in either American Economics Review , Quarterly Journal of Economics , or Econometrica . ( The QJE is often said to mostly publish MIT and Harvard folks . ) AER is only 19th in <URL> ( which may be as good as any other list that 's not password protected by ISI ) , and I have never heard about some of these journals . The AER 's impact factor of 2.5 is not even funny for a biologist seeking Science or Nature publications , though -- the impact factors of the latter are what , 30 or so ? I work in industry and tend to care little about the journals outside of my area ( statistics ) ; generally , statistics journals tend to have IFs between 0.25 and 4 . The reality of my particular field ( survey research ) is that people just submit their paper to proceedings of the annual conferences and move on with their paying projects , and do n't have the time to BS back and forth with the reviewers . There are people in academia who need to publish-or-perish , so you would see some typical academic papers with rather small contributions to the knowledge , but their authors either have their own time or slave labor force grad students to write these up . As a guiding rule of what journals to avoid , you can start with commercially published journals and respect the professional organizations publish their journals themselves , without Wiley or Elsevier grabbing them as a source of income ... although I can imagine that coercive citations is what the editorial boards insist on , which may or may not correlate strongly with who publishes a given journal . I have received requests to cite the given journal more ( this is a problem for disciplines with an overproduction of journals fighting each other ; again , in my industry , there are probably four or five decent ones , and they do n't need to fight ) , but tended to ignore them .
I do n't know much about bioengineering and materials sciences . In my area ( CS ) there are many more industrial positions available than academic positions . However , industrial positions often tend be clustered in regions , and there might not be too many academic jobs in those regions ( or they might be very highly competitive ) . Sadly though , I suspect that basing your decisions on where you might do a postdoc is a problem , because a postdoc itself is a temporary position , and so you 're really only deferring the real problem . One argument would be that if postdocs in your area take a while ( say 3-4 years vs 1-2 ) , then you might as well operate as if that were the permanent job , and then reevaluate after your time is done and you 're on the academic job market . Good luck : two-body problems are tricky , and when one partner is on the academic track it gets even trickier .
Some of the obvious ones : The <URL> initiative wants to assign unique identifiers to all " creators " . ( They take authors in the broad sense of individuals generating copyrightable content or something like that , since they include musicians and others . ) That is about as " general " as you can want . If you want to restrict to Academia , the <URL> is not specifically field-specific , though it is limited to fields which have an arXiv presence . Since you did n't specify what is required of a " researcher digital identification service " , social networks such as Academia.edu and ResearchGate which you <URL> can also serve the purpose of disambiguation of publishing records . Certain countries maintain their own databases of researchers residing there . The most comprehensive and successful seems to be that of <URL> . The American Mathematical Society has recently starting maintaining <URL> as part of their MathSciNet service ( I know that the question asked for " not field-specific " ; I 'll weasel and say that the AMS profiles include also those working in related sciences to mathematics , such as physicists and computer scientists , and some engineers . ) For a list of some of the other services , the <URL> has a slightly out-dated list of such services . Note however some of the items listed there have stalled and shutdown since the last edit .
In part it means that the conference organizers have access to the conference administration tools and resources that IEEE , ACM , or the like provide . Having been around some IEEE-sponsored conferences , that can mean things like payment processing and credit card handling ; access to a journal special issue for proceedings ; conference organization website for registration , submissions , and reviewing ; and registration discounts for members of the society . Access to these features does n't come for free . The professional societies charge for their use and stand to make money on them . As such , while you have to propose the conference and get it approved , after that the oversight is less . The quality of a conference comes down to the Organizing Committee and it 's technical/content/papers committee . If you 've never heard of any of the members of these committees , or many of them appear to have low-quality papers , there 's a good chance that the conference is n't all that great .
I have found two works that I think are interesting and relevant . First , there is a sequence of three papers by Beaver and Rosen from 1978-79 on the history of scientific collaboration : " Studies of Scientific Collaboration " ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , unfortunately all paywalled by Springer ) . These articles document a relationship between co-authorship and " professionalization " of science , noting that although co-authorship has a long history of equal relationships , it surges when it becomes tied to access to facilities , money , and power particularly as judged by peers within the scientific community . Ubiquitous co-authorship only emerged in the mid-20th century , and given the scientific economic environment in the US and Western Europe , there seems to be a plausible relationship to the three main authorship traditions that have been observed : Biomedical research is very dependent on judgement of scientific peers , and thus would be natural to have the highest co-authorship and most complex and hierarchy-driven interpretation of author order , distinguishing " primary contributor " ( protege ) from " senior author " ( patron ) . Mathematical research , on the opposite end of the spectrum , requires little in the way of funding or access to resources , and thus has the shortest co-author lists and most egalitarian traditions for interpreting authorship . Engineering research , although heavily funded and often strongly dependent on access to facilities and equipment , is less dependent on peers and more dependent on providing near-term results to government or industrial patrons , and thus it is unsurprising that it ends up in the middle state . For comparison , then , we may consider the second paper , <URL> , a 2009 comparison of 10 different society authorship policies , which range from NIH setting forth a biomedical canon in which only the " corresponding " author really counts to the American Statistical Association , which says that the convention chosen for author order should be explicitly explained ( no mathematical society is included , unfortunately ) . Now all of this might be snapshots and " just-so stories " that are not the actual causality and history , but it 's at least an interesting starting point for interpretation and investigation .
I highly value humor and love to entertain whenever I can . In formal writing , I would encourage you to go ahead and write something that you think would be funny . Then reread it . Then reread it again . Read it aloud . Read it silently . Read it again tomorrow while you edit it . And read it again . And again . And again . Imagine reading it out loud to the people with the least sense of humor you know . Imagine reading it to a person with a furrowed brow , in a bad mood , who is trying to find anything they can to rip apart what you have laid down , to find a reason to cast it aside as useless junk . Then read it 10 more times , as any good writer must inevitably do . Now imagine reading it again in 10 years ( if you are lucky and what you 've done turns out to be of use ) . Personally , I have found that after the 20 + time I 've read something , it is n't even funny to me anymore - and I think I 'm hilarious ! But even the best jokes I 've ever told never landed 100 % of time , or to 100 % of the audience - and in formal writing I do n't even know who the audience is - they might speak my language as a 2nd ( or 3rd or 4th ) language . Being stubborn , I like to write humor into anything I make . But after the 20th read through I realize it just is n't funny any more , even to me - and if that 's how a reader would feel who does n't get or appreciate the joke , it just is n't worth it any more to me to include it . I 'm basically writing a technical instruction manual , and there 's a reason those things are n't really funny - you are supposed to read them and refer back to them repeatedly , and jokes get old fast . If I really like a joke , I 'll save it for when I can make it in person , in a talk or in a presentation , when I can personally hear the laughs ( or gauge the room and know to skip it entirely ) . Or I 'll be funny on a website like this so I can wallow in a mass of glorious unicorn points . But in formal writing like a thesis or important research paper ? Well , you decide after you 've read it for the 30th time if it is still worth inclusion , or if that emoticon makes you smile - or if you want to poke it in its tiny little semi-colon eye .
In the U.S. , you may file a patent application up to one year after the invention is described in a publication , in public use , or on sale . So if you publish something on your invention and also wish to patent it , you only have one year from the date of publication to apply for the patent . Similar rules may apply in other countries ; it 's a good idea to consult a lawyer . There is no conflict the other way around ; you can publish after the patent application ( or at the same time ) without issues .
I would say that this is one time when taking a year off is not recommended . You are at your peak right now in a number of ways : You have very recent publications and just received your degree . Both have a discernible half-life when it comes to being hired in academia ( particularly for the first time ) . You know the most people in your field , including your advisor and other professors who can write you up-to-date recommendation letters . You have the most current knowledge of your field , and although it sounds like you 're going to continue to publish , you wo n't be as able to actively learn ( then again , I know from your previous posts that you were full-time employed during your PhD , so that may not be an issue ) . I 'm assuming that the timing is different in Australia , but in the U.S. there are generally key times of the year that academic hiring happens -- you put together applications in Nov-Jan and hope to land interviews and talks in the Feb-April time frame . If there is a similar time-frame in Australia , I would make sure you have the time available to put together applications and go on interviews , whether it is this year or after another year . I assume you 'll still be allowed to publish under your previous school 's affiliation post-PhD defense , but if that is n't the case , I would urge you to figure out a way to work that out . Finally ( and I 'm not really in a position to comment directly on this ) is the question about how your job applications will be received with a year gap from academia . My feeling is that an extra paper will help you but that the time away wo n't help you ( even though it is n't technically away it will be noticeable that you got your PhD a year prior ) , and it may be a wash . You 'll have to consider this when you write your cover letters and research statement . I would think about how ( if at all ) you justify the extra year of high school teaching post-PhD in a cover letter . You 've already got plenty of teaching experience under your belt to prove your teaching credentials , so an extra year in the classroom wo n't be beneficial from that standpoint .
I favor acting in the following way : If you 've only read one of the versions , cite that one . God knows what 's in the one you have n't read . If you 've read both versions : if they are identical relative to the information you need , publication in a journal or proceedings volume takes precedence over ( re ) publication in a career collection ( e.g. , " Selected works of Jones " ) , which takes precedence over arxiv , which takes precedence over non-arxiv manuscripts . if they are not identical relative to the information you need , cite whichever one contains the best version ( where best probably needs to be decided on a case-by-case basis ) .
Short answer : In practice , letters are more important . Long answer : Doing great research is great , but if I 'm on an admissions committee , how do I know your research is great ? I can read your paper , but unless it 's close to my area of expertise , it can be hard or at least time-consuming to determine its quality . I probably have too many applicants who wrote a paper to read everyone 's paper in detail ( depending on how common undergraduate authorship is in my field ) . And even if I 'm convinced the paper is great , how do I know what your contribution to the paper was ? ( In the fields I 'm familiar with , it 's very rare for undergrads to author solo papers . ) On the other hand , if I have a letter from a faculty member whose word I trust saying that this paper is great and you did most of the hard work ( or even that he/she is very impressed with your potential ) , that 's much more useful .
end question
start question
How to respond to peer review - a step by step guide to my first response ?
Variations are possible , but I have found that the following seems to be a fairly typically form of a response to reviewers : Begin with a letter to the handling editor and reviewers , in which you thank the reviewers for their useful feedback ( even if it was n't ) and say you believe you 've addressed all comments . If you 've made any really major changes , a sentence or two here is a good to address them . Quote the reviews as sent and address each comment inline , either saying how you 've done what they wanted or explaining why you have n't . I always organize by reviewer and address in the order of their comments ( rather than the structure of the paper ) because the goal is to clearly show that you have addressed all comments . I recommend adopting a polite and semi-formal style . You can be a bit more informal than the paper , but I still do n't use contractions . Do not get argumentative with the reviewers , and do not blow off their criticisms . Even an apparently crazy criticism should be treated politely , and as a matter of confusion rather than as a personal attack .
How acknowledgments work is always a bit of a judgment call , but to me the following principle seems reasonable . You are free to acknowledge anyone in any paper as long as what you acknowledge them for is factually accurate . If you have any reason to believe that the acknowledged party might take issue with the factual accuracy of what you write in your acknowledgments , it would be honorable to show them a draft of the paper and ask for their blessing on the wording of the acknowledgment . If this causes them to ask to be omitted from the acknowledgments , then it seems reasonable to honor this request unless you feel that removing this acknowledgment compromises academic integrity . ( For instance , if you are including significant work of the acknowledged party , then just because they do n't want you to mention that does not necessarily make it okay to do so . This creates a sticky wicket that other questions and answers on this site have addressed . ) I believe it follows from the principle that whether acknowledgments are acceptable depends more on what they acknowledge you for than whether they drop your name or not . For instance , suppose they thank you for " helpful conversations " . If you did in fact speak ( or write ... ) to them about their work , then if they say the conversation was helpful , how can you argue ? I think that most savvy academics understand that just dropping someone 's name in the acknowledgments does not mean that the paper contains their imprimatur . Nevertheless it is shady to acknowledge someone -- especially someone very famous and eminent -- purely for the cachet that their name may convey to less than savvy readers . <URL> a famous review of Marilyn vos Savant 's book on Fermat 's Last Theorem that calls out the author along these lines : she acknowledged some very famous mathematicians , who when contacted by her surely did not say anything to indicate that the material in her book was correct ( not only does it contain errors , but it contains errors that any practitioner or serious student of mathematics would regard as bizarre ) . In the case at hand : I think the OP would be within her rights to mention that she would rather not be acknowledged in the paper . Whether she wants to indicate that this is because she still finds the work to be significantly flawed depends on all kinds of social and political factors beyond the scope of this answer . As to that I would only say : in my opinion , simply very politely asking for your name to be removed from the paper without getting into why is probably a higher percentage strategy than indicating that the work is still problematic . Added : Let me add that the principle above is meant to be on the minimalist side . In practice , if you think that someone is not going to appreciate being acknowledged in your paper for whatever reason , then unless there are academic integrity issues involved in omitting the acknowledgment it seems wise to do so . Once I acknowledged a friend of mine in a preprint in a way which was factually accurate but nevertheless embarrassing to him : he simply did not want to be associated with something that he viewed as intellectually trivial . I took his name out of the later drafts of the paper . This incident has made me think more carefully about how acknowledgments will be received by the acknowledged party .
I would think that it 's a bad idea to open the possibility of referees communicating with authors , since this opens the possibility of authors ' influencing referees , compromising the process . Of course , this is not to say that there are n't some positive possibilities , but the conflict-of-interest criterion seems to me in this case to be clearly manifest . That is , it should be understood , implicitly or explicitly , that referees will remain anonymous " in perpetuity " , so that there is no hint or possibility that authors could communicate with them or influence them . E.g. , either overt or subtle invitations from authors to a referee to communicate ( and get some credit for the paper , maybe co-authorship , etc. , as discussed around here some time back ... ) would be understood in advance to fail absolutely . Thus , editors who discover referees willing to engage in such would probably regretfully stop asking them to referee , since if such activity became known it would seriously damage the reputation of the journal ... if only in principle , but " principle " would seem to be the point ...
Every conference and workshop will issue a call for papers . The editors of special issues of journals may issue a call for papers . Editors of books on a special topic may have call for papers . How else will they advertise their conference , workshop , journal , book and get submission ? Many of these will be perfectly legitimate and even highly reputable venues . Naturally , some of these might be poorly ranked conferences or even in-it-for-the-money ventures , rather than serious scientific venues . But if you mark them all as spam , how will you know what is out there to submit your papers to ? The best strategy I can think of is to create a folder to collect these call for papers and use a filter to move them into that folder . When you need to submit a paper , you can search through the folder to find an appropriate venue . As most conferences repeat yearly at roughly the same time , you can collect the names of those and the approximate due dates in another file ( or calendar ) , so that you build a good picture of what the major events in your field are . Every now and again you will need to find a new forum or perhaps there will be a book that you could contribute to . By filtering all call for papers , you miss these things . On the other hand , you can find most of this information using Google ... Answering the title question : generally you should n't respond to these emails . That said , you could send an email to be asked to be removed from the mailing list , but this is probably ineffective .
In 12 minutes , the best you can do for your audience is highlight four to six broad observations or conclusions about the state of research . Here are some questions you might address with your observations : Are the lines of research diverging and multiplying , or converging and consolidating ? Has it divided into " factions " or " schools " that define problems , methods , and solutions differently ? Or is all research operating under a single paradigm ? What 's the influence and interaction with other fields and disciplines ? Where has research made progress addressing fundamental questions ? Where has research made no meaningful progress ? Where should researchers look for the most promising research directions and under-explored areas ? Do n't try to make more than six observations in 12 minutes . By trying to say more , you are actually communicating less effectively . Any one who wants the full story can read your paper .
I think it is perfectly reasonable to expect a timely response , however it seems to be the case that many graduate schools are overwhelmed with applications and underestimate the time it takes to deal with them . A slightly more cynical view would be that many graduate school admin departments are understaffed and do n't have the resources to cater for expected number of applicants . In my case I submitted my application on 28 Feb and was informed that interviews would take place " during the week of the 19 March " . This date came and went and I assumed I had not been successful , so I called the Faculty Graduate Office the following week and was informed that the process was taking longer than expected but I would be notified of the status in due course . On 5 April I received an email saying I had been selected for interview and " we will contact you shortly with an interview date and time " . On 25 April I was given the interview date ( for the middle of May ) . I would recommend that you just call them and ask to know the status .
If you have submitted manuscripts to peer-reviewed outlets , you can say so . If you have anything under second-round review , be sure to say so because that 's all the better . If you have n't submitted manuscripts , you could do so . One of my peer-reviewed publications was originally a paper I wrote for a Ph.D. seminar . I blew the dust off , firmed it up and made it stronger , and I submitted it . It was a nice little paper . My point is that you have doubtless done work that you could turn into a submission with X weeks of work . Lots of people list their current research projects under a title such as " Current Research . " Beware that search committees know all the tricks . You 're not going to fool anyone . But , I 'm sure your goal is not to " fool " anyone at all . You just want to put your best foot forward , and there 's nothing wrong with that .
Long answer short - It depends on the editorial policy of the specific journal or the current editor . In my field , 4 or more rounds of revisions is not completely unheard of . Despite people 's frustration with such policy of unlimited number of revisions ( Imagine being that person who got a rejection after 4 major revisions and the manuscript being under review for 3 years ? -- this is not uncommon in the social sciences ) , some journals do retain such policy . The top 2 journals in sociology are notorious for this . I currently serve on an editorial board of a reputable journal in the field ( one of the top 5 ) , where the current editor has changed the journal policy to not extend second R&amp;R s . In this journal , you only get once chance to revise , and the result of the revise can either be an outright accept , conditional accept ( which will come back with very minor change suggestions -- for example , cite an overlooked source , change the title of the paper , rewrite the conclusion , etc ) , or reject . I think this is a positive step forward , especially since many editors in the field tend to be very nitpicky about minor/aesthetic issues .
" ... a quick - one , two , you 're published ! " That 's not how it works . What works is : Make it a publicly available preprint ( online repositories like arXiv , a preprint series of some institute , university , maybe via your personal website or blog ... ) . Submit to some peer reviewed journal that complies with papers that are available as preprints ( and there are journals that do not cost you anything ; you will not get " open access " for free , but in many cases the preprint can stay freely available ) . Put the paper in your CV and add " submitted for publication " . Then the paper will be visible and checkable and it also shows that you know how scientific publishing works .
Since I do much of my work by video link , I have some experience with the problems of conducting business over video-conference . For permission , in universities it will generally be fine as long as you are n't disrupting the work of others . If there is any rule regulating video , you should be aware of it ( e.g. , some non-university research institutions do n't allow video-conference at all , and make very certain their researchers know ) . For quality , I would guess that their actual requirement is not HD , but that they want to be able to read your expression as you talk . Here , the primary limitation is not your camera , but your network connection . The built-in camera for your computer or any cheap webcam will generally produce much higher quality video than you can transmit effectively . Things to do to ensure a good connection : Use a wired link ( e.g. , EtherNet ) rather than wireless if possible , as your connection is likely to be better and more stable . Use headphones and a microphone ( cheap earbuds with a built-in mike will do ) : the headphones will prevent echo from your speakers , and the microphone ensures consistent pickup of your voice . Different software provides different quality tradeoffs optimal for different connections : Professional videoconferencing hardware ( e.g. , PolyCom ) , is nice if your institution has a room and you can get help using it . Its learning curve is a pain , and it 's not any better quality than ... High-end videoconferencing software ( I 've had good experience with <URL> ) , provides a fantastic quality connection but has brutal demands for bandwidth and processor power . If I use it for more than ~ 2 hours on my laptop , it overheats . Note that you do n't have to buy this software : generally , only the meeting organizer needs to , and you can connect via a web link that they send you . Skype is good for mid-grade connections : it provides nice video when given a consistently good link , but degrades badly if the link is inconsistent . Google Hangouts is good for low-grace connections : its video quality is never particularly good , but it will get something through . The most important thing is the high-bandwidth link : with a good enough link , Skype is generally sufficient within a continent . For very long distance connections ( where the limitation is lag and undersea cables ) you may want to use higher grade software . If you ca n't get access to a place that gives a strong connection , arrange the connection for a time when you are likely to have little competition with others for bandwidth . Early morning is generally best : during the day work activities consume bandwidth , and in the evening people are watching video .
The authors can arrange this however they want . If they all want to work on it actively , that 's fine . If they 'd rather agree to have one person write the response and then send it to the other authors for approval , that 's fine too . All that matters is that everyone approves . Unlike the paper itself , it 's not necessary that all authors make a significant contribution . It 's impossible to give any general advice on length : in some cases a short response is sufficient , in other cases you might have to write more to express what you need to say . But conciseness is generally desirable ; nobody likes to read unnecessary text that does n't add anything .
My preference where the journal allows is to avoid making references to page and line numbers . It 's a time consuming process and can generally be avoided . If the change is really simple ( e.g. , fixing a typo ; changing one word ) , I 'll just acknowledge that the change has been made . If a sentence or paragraph has been substantially reworded , I 'll first paste a copy of the original paragraph and then a copy of the updated paragraph into my response document , possibly highlighting new text in bold . If text has been added to a paragraph , I 'll paste the updated paragraph into the response document with added text in bold . The general logic of the approach is to make the reviewer 's task as simple as possible . The reviewer generally wont want to have to perform complex cross-referencing of responses with page and line numbers in the manuscript . Instead , I think it 's easier for the reviewer to make such responses self-contained in the response document . If the reviewer really wants to check that the changes have actually been made , there 's enough text in the response document to enable a quick search on the manuscript PDF to find the location .
Variations are possible , but I have found that the following seems to be a fairly typically form of a response to reviewers : Begin with a letter to the handling editor and reviewers , in which you thank the reviewers for their useful feedback ( even if it was n't ) and say you believe you 've addressed all comments . If you 've made any really major changes , a sentence or two here is a good to address them . Quote the reviews as sent and address each comment inline , either saying how you 've done what they wanted or explaining why you have n't . I always organize by reviewer and address in the order of their comments ( rather than the structure of the paper ) because the goal is to clearly show that you have addressed all comments . I recommend adopting a polite and semi-formal style . You can be a bit more informal than the paper , but I still do n't use contractions . Do not get argumentative with the reviewers , and do not blow off their criticisms . Even an apparently crazy criticism should be treated politely , and as a matter of confusion rather than as a personal attack .
With the submission management systems of most journals , it will be an incredibly obnoxious hassle for the editors to support a double-blind review if the journal 's policy is normally single-blind review . The reason is that , even if you remove names from the manuscript , most review systems present the reviewers with all of the key meta-data about the paper , including the author identities . This information is tied to author accounts in the system , the paper production and publication process for accepted papers , and possibly also external systems such as <URL> . This is configured right into the software , so the only method most editors would have for supporting double-blind would be to have the authors create pseudonymous accounts and then later work with the production staff to manually intervene and change all of the metadata ( likely screwing up their records as well ) before the paper actually appeared . Thus , given the degree of hassle and problems involved , I would expect most editors to refuse without some sort of exceedingly unusual extenuating circumstance . You can always ask politely , of course , but you should expect the answer to be no .
I 've reviewed more than 50 papers , and my preparation to review them has varied widely . At least a few of them have drawn heavily on papers I 've written . Generally , these are extending my results . Typically , I ask myself : What does this paper add ? Is it something I would have thought of easily or not ? If yes , why did n't I include it in my paper ? In contrast , I 've also reviewed some papers that I was not well prepared for . They were in my general field , but in a subarea that I had n't worked in . These papers took a lot more work . ( Up to 10x as long for me to review as a paper in an area where I 'm very familiar . ) For papers in an area that 's new to me , I often have to look up ( and skim ) at least a few of the references from the introduction to judge whether the paper is original . Originality has at least two very different levels . The easier one to achieve is : ( 1 ) this result is new , and does n't follow simply from anything previous . The much harder one is , ( 2 ) this technique is fundamentally new and produces interesting results . If the results are interesting , most journals are happy to publish articles of type ( 1 ) . Articles of type ( 2 ) are much rarer , and can potentially open entire new fields . tl ; dnr : Preparation : you need to either know the subarea well or be willing to read a lot to learn about it . Originality : What papers does it draw on ? How likely is it that a reader of those would be able to write this paper ? Answering this question may require you to read a lot of background .
You can get a list of researchers who have Google Scholar profiles and have identified themselves with the field , ranked in order of total citation count by searching for researchers in that field on Google Scholar , via <URL> . That 's not quite the same thing but will give you some of the answers you are looking for .
Unfortunately , there 's little you can do on your own . One huge obstacle is letters of recommendation , which play a major role in screening applications . You probably wo n't know exactly what 's in your own letters , and until you 've served on a search committee yourself , you certainly wo n't know what the letters look like for the applicant pool as a whole . This makes it really difficult to gauge how impressive your letters are : you just wo n't be in a position to estimate whether a given opening might receive three applications with letters comparable to yours , or thirty . This makes an enormous difference for estimating your chances . Partly you 'll have to rely on advice from experienced mentors , who have years of experience seeing how job searches play out . Partly you 'll just have to guess , and apply to a slightly broader range of jobs than you hope for , just in case . But you can at least make quantitative comparisons with recently hired people at universities you aspire to . ( Number of publications , prestige of journals/conferences , number of citations , etc. ) Do n't take these numbers too seriously , since they can offer at best a crude impression of your track record , but they will show whether you 're in the same ballpark as the successful applicants . If your application looks quantitatively similar , then it may be reassuring . If it does n't , then that will at least show what you need to emphasize in your application . ( E.g. , if you have relatively few publications , then you 'd better make sure readers are impressed with their quality . )
" First look " is a stage in the ScholarOne Manuscripts ( S1M ) system used by many journals . The First look stage means that your manuscript , after an " Accept " decision is scrutinized to see if it adheres to journal standards ( a.k. Instruction for authors ) and that figures are of sufficient quality ( resolution for bitmaps ) . The journal editor ( s ) handle ( s ) this stage . Your paper may be returned to you to fix specific formatting problems BUT NOT changing the content . See <URL> So " First look " is not a general name for a stage but is specific to S1M . Other systems or journals may of course be using such a term for other purposes but it is not a general publishing term . The stage it represent will , however be found in all journals .
That 's a tricky question . I will try to give you my humble advice . First , document every step and be sure that your statements are true . If you have some suspicion , you can also present that , but state that you only have such suspicion . Second , write again to the editor telling him/her that in good faith you believe the study is fabricated , and it will undermine the journal credibility . If you do that after publication , the damage to the scholarly literature will be even larger . Third , tell the editor your plan . For instance , you can tell him/her that if he does not act swiftly within 30 days , you will inform , without divulging too much details , of the situation , his/her insitution , as well as the authors ' institutions and the publisher . Fourth , if the above does not work ( it should ) , then proceed and be ready to defend thoroughly your argument .
The absence of a response can be because of several reasons . Your mail can indeed end up as spam but it is usually the e-mail system that sorts it there automatically , not the person . Sending additional mails will then be pointless unless the recipient actually goes through the spam folder to look for erroneously sorted mails . A more likely reason for the lack of response is a matter of priority . I think etiquette would dictate at least a brief answer to the effect that the mail was received but can not be followed up . You are requesting something that is a personal favour to you . As such , and as has been commented , it is only fair and indeed professional to provide a short and clear statement of the purpose of the meeting . After all to meet someone during work hours better be about something work related . The tutors have probably also tutored many others . From their perspective , you , without any derogatory intent , will be one of many . I often get requests from students who apparently think that because they are out of the program they should be " friends " with me . I would end up with many such " friends " but none that would have any significance either professionally not privately . Hence there is an unbalance between how your tutor has meant something for you and what you have meant to the tutor . This is built into this sort of relationship . Hence , you need to look at the formal role of both parties and evaluate if your reason for contacting the tutors is mostly a professional issue or a private issue . In the latter case , the response may be less than what you would wish for . If your cause is professional , you are far more likely to get a timely and satisfactory reply .
end question
start question
Are there formal or informal hiring bans in some academic settings based on gender and/or nationality ?
You are unlikely to get examples about formal hiring bans , in particular in western societies . It would not only be frowned upon , as in this case ; it would also be against university policies , if not downright illegal . The only formal hiring bans I could think of are those implied by more general rules . The most obvious case coming to mind is that about 20 countries do n't allow people with Israeli passport to enter , which means they can not study or teach there either ( about half a dozen or so countries extend this to people with other passports but evidence of a travel to Israel ) . Unfortunately , it is possible that the professor was speaking a truth about what some consider in their hiring decisions ... where usually they would only have the common sense to not explicitly admit the true reasons for their decisions . They would start where this professor is now : claiming that their labs are full . This is human nature , and academics are no better or worse than their fellow humans dealing with their fear and prejudice in regrettable ways .
The acknowledgements section is really yours to do with as you wish . You can thank anybody who has been of help and support to you , no matter how formal or informal your relationship with them is . You can make the relationship explicit or not , however you prefer . Thus , for example , it is equally valid to write : Thank you to Jane Smith , for all her love and support or Thank you to my girlfriend Jane Smith , for all her love and support
Details may vary but in essence the following applies ( assuming it is a research/teaching university ) : Scientific publications . The list is judged on quality , usually determined by h-index , number of citations and publications per year in some combination . Funding . The ability of the applicant to attract funds . Academic experience . This could be anything from teaching through administrative tasks , within a university or in international circles . the latter may be important since the person brings in a network of contacts . Clearly , it is possible that a department may look for a younger promising scientists to build a new environment and many positions may be strategic to expand a department or to strengthen it uncertain ways . Hence the current position may have very little influence on the appointment . It all boils down to what the department is looking for . Whether it is possible to employ a full professor as assistant or vice versa , is difficult to answer . generally , yes , but the meaning of full , associate , assistant professor varies and does not exist everywhere . So the picture is more complex here and I believe the search criteria is what is looked at . I can imagine , that being full professor may be a disadvantage if the position is looking for someone to be assistant but then it is up to the applicant to accept ( or not ) the conditions .
In Germany , women are in some instances preferred over men for professor positions , to the point of excluding male applicants at all . There are scholarships and other forms of funding specifically ( and exclusively ) geared towards women ( at all levels ) . A prominent example is <URL> : [ Secretary of Education Schavan :] " There are not enough female professors , most university teachers are men . [ ... ] 260 new positions have been established [ between 2008 and 2012 ] thanks to the Female Professors Program and have been staffed with women . This is a success - but not nearly enough . Therefore we have initiated a second round . " [ ... ] Up to three [ female ] professor positions per university [ are possible ] . [ We make ] an additional 150 million Euros available for this purpose until 2017 . Best-effort translation by myself from the German original . There are professor positions offered only to women ¹ . For one thing , there are " additional " positions like those mentioned above or e.g. at FU Berlin ( <URL> , <URL> ) . [ Departments ] could apply for being assigned [ such a position ] . [ ... ] [ The applicants ] must bring forward proof of at least one highly qualified female applicant . ² Best-effort translation by myself from the German original . This is probably an effect of additional funds for women being available ( cf 1 ) . But also regular positions can be designated for women only , see e.g. these <URL> from FHTW Berlin ( page 8 ) : One of the two professor positions will be tendered twice as women-only position . The [ Academic Senate of the FHTW Berlin ] passes the motion [ with 9 yes , 0 no , 4 abstention ] . Best-effort translation by myself from the German original . Official statements regarding systemic discrimination ( of men ) are hard to come by ( even if it is effectively encouraged/enforced by policy at times ) . See some press on one case <URL> and <URL> . There are support structures available only to women , such as the concept of <URL> ( Am . women 's affairs officer ) ( who have special roles and privileges ) and often have funds spent on e.g. training seminars only open for women ( which is not always enforced ) . You hear stories , but there will often be no paper trail as these things can and tend to be decided behind the curtains . The way hiring of professors works in Germany , if the commission wants phenotype X , they can get it ( if they play their cards right ) . In the gender question , this may be a result of a ) policy makers demanding more female professors ( by way of blocking any other choice ) and b ) the funding situation ( cf 1 ) , esp . in the light of decreasing funding across the board . ) . They then say , " after the position has been assigned to the department , a regular hiring process ensues " . I 'm not clear if that means male applicants are admitted , or if only the process itself is a regular one .
I think your first instinct is correct , it just needs a little bit of clarification in wording . I would suggest something like : Created by combining adaptations of Figure X from [ 3 ] , Figure Y from [ 6 ] , and Figure Z from [ 9 ] .
Several studies have examined the impact of extended test-taking time on performance at all academic grade levels . Many of these studies focus on individuals with learning disabilities , but generally include students without learning disabilities as a control group . I have summarized some studies here , and provided a list of additional studies which may be of interest . The studies indicate that other individual factors ( academic ability and skills , perception of time , and method of test administration ) may impact test performance in concert with or in addition with extended time . One study of learning disabled ( LD ) and non-learning disabled ( NLD ) college students being given a reading test that assessed vocabulary and comprehension assessed outcomes for those who received an extended test period of time and a half compared to the normal period ( Ofiesh , 2000 ) . Individuals with LD saw significant improvements in the extended time period compared to NLD students . Some NLD students did show improved scores in the extended period , but the difference was not significant . Similarly , in a study assessing the performance of elementary , middle , and high school students on the Stanford 10 achievement tests who received either the recommended amount of time or extra time , the authors concluded that NLD students exhibited no benefit or detriment with extended testing time ( Brooks , Case , &amp; Young , 2003 ) . This did not vary whether they received a few minutes up to double the recommended time . Another study of 6th grade students taking a standardized test found that NLD students did not see a significant increase in scores in an extended-time condition , but LD students did ( Huesman &amp; Frisbie , 2000 ) . However , NLD scores also varied based on instructions . When NLD students were given extra time , and told to take their time , their scores improved ; when given extra time but told to work " quickly " but to still do their best work , they did not significantly improve , possibly because they were placed into a mindset of being timed . Another study examined the impact of extended time ( 1.5 ) on both multiple choice and problem solving tests in three university courses , but found no improvements in performance ( Armitage , 1999 ) . However , in a study of prospective graduate students who took the GRE writing test , participants who were given 60 minutes performed better than those given only 40 minutes ( Powers &amp; Fowles , 1996 ) . A study of SAT performance for nearly 2,000 LD/ADHD or NLD high school students was examined for groups allowed standard time or 1.5 or 2 times the allotted time for verbal and math sections ( Mandibach , Bridgeman , Cahalan-Laitusis , &amp; Trapani , 2005 ) . They found that NLD medium - and high-ability students performed best in the 1.5 time condition , but low-ability examinees saw no benefit . Extra time affected math more than verbal performance . Strong conclusions about LD student performance were non-significant in part due to small sample sizes . The authors note that low-ability students may not benefit from extra time because they lack needed problem-solving skills , while medium-ability students may benefit because they are able to check their work . Less benefit was seen for high ability students who may not have needed the extra time . The authors also noted that for longer tests , breaking the material into sections and setting time limits per section seemed to benefit all students , rather than asking them to pace themselves across all material . One study found no direct effect of extended time on written essay quality for college students , but did find that student who were allowed to use a word processor wrote more than students who provided handwritten answers , and that typed ( but not hand written ) essays demonstrated a link between length and quality ( Lovett , Lewandowski , Berger , &amp; Gathje , 2010 ) . The authors propose it was not time that led to these improvements , but the flexibility to edit their answers when typed . A review of the evaluation of written exams cites several other studies regarding the impact of time on writing quality ( Cho , 2003 ) and may be of interest . A report by Tindal and Fuchs ( 2000 , pgs 26 -- 35 ) provides a concise summary of the literature of test extensions or untimed tests from kindergarten through post-secondary education , including specific summaries of each study found in their review . This might be a good place to start in terms of additional literature . Although most of the examples I described here found few effects for non-learning disabled students receiving extended time on tests , I 've also listed additional literature which may provide alternative results . Referenced studies : Armitage , C. ( 1999 ) . Extended time limits on university examinations ( Master 's thesis ) . Retrieved from : <URL> Brooks , T. E. , Case , B. J. , and Young , M. J. Pearson assessment report . ( 2003 ) . Timed versus untimed testing conditions and student performance . Pearson Education , Inc. . Retr
I will take a somewhat different view from @jakebeal 's answer . The primary question is : when did you work on the paper ? Did you do all of the work while you were a thesis student , and then the paper has slowly made its way through the system ? Or did you actively work on it as part of your new job ? Did you use institutional resources from your new position to do any part of the paper ? If the answer to the latter is no , then you should only list the old institution in the actual affiliations , and then list your new job as a " present address " , if you so choose . If you worked on the paper as part of your new job ( beyond rote submission and minor edits ) , then you should list both workplaces as " active " affiliations .
Would cheating still be considered unfair if we drop the concept of grading according to a curve ? ( which we should ) Of course ! Let 's assume that without cheating 10 % of students get As . Therefore , students who earned As are a small group . Having an A might help getting funding , or finding an internship or a job . Now let 's say that with cheating , 50 % ( no normalizing ) of students get As , now an A is no longer that valuable because a lot of people have them . Therefore , the value of As that honest students earned has diminished .
This is , of course , ultimately up to you , people can only advise you ; I will provide a list of some things to think about ; hopefully this will help :) You say that you want to " do a good research project " . Is n't that what the master 's project is for ? I do n't know anything about unofficial projects but it could work . Yes , taking a break from academia would be a slight disadvantage , but if you 're doing an unofficial project , then this wo n't be a problem at all , will it ? " High impact research " , in my opinion , is a very ambitious/risky thing to set your mind on , in terms of a master 's - level project . Do n't forget that as a master 's student , you are still expected to be learning ; a PhD supervisor is unlikely to expect something like this , although they would like it ! Can you do a project over summer ? In the UK at least , there are loads of paid internships and summer projects available , both with universities and industry .
Every field has a large number of different types of publishing venues with different requirements and expectations for the structure of manuscripts . If the reviewer is making a legitimate complaint , it is likely to have to do with the particular journal that you are submitting to . Some do have very particular requirements about structure and what exactly goes where , so perhaps that is what the comment is about . Absent particular structural constraints , however , I think that it 's fine to reference figures or tables from a discussion section , as one is discussing them ( in fact , it would be strange not to do so ) .
Yes , there are some <URL> . Scantron 's software and hardware is proprietary .
One of the wonderful things about your thesis is that it is one of the few documents that there is very little constraint on how you are allowed to arrange it . Once you have satisfied the university 's formal requirements ( of which there are often few ) , it is up to you ( with , of course , the consent of your advisor ) . So arrange things however you feel makes the most clear and accessible presentation , and it will be OK .
This does n't cover everything you want , by any means , but it is an attempt to automate similar things : <URL> You could probably accomplish some of what you want with similar scripts . Some of the checks you wish to do are easily scripted as long as your thesis file ( s ) are plain text . If you 're using Word , automation will be more challenging .
Besides <URL> , there is <URL> ; and there is also reddit.com . Reddit is most like SE in terms of user interaction , however they have some problems with quality control . It is " open " in the sense that anyone can offer material and make a comment ( review ) : it is " not entirely open " in the sense that authors and reviewers have the option of using a pseudonym , so real identities are usually not known . The other two sites are open in the latter sense , that authors and reviewers are openly identified ( as far as I can tell ) , but peerageofscience requires reviewers to " have published a peer reviewed scientific article in an established international journal , as first or corresponding author " , so it is closed to reviewers without that credential . ( I am not sure about peerevaluation but it does not seem to require any qualifications from reviewers though it does ask you to categorize yourself ) .
In addition to the other answers , there is a perverse effect to local hiring : a professor can promise to her PhD students/postdocs a permanent position later on , which in turn tends to " tie " the student/postdoc to her professor , perhaps preventing her to develop her own research agenda , and doing more administrative/teaching/supervision tasks than normally required ( to basically look good in the eyes of the advisor ) . This then builds a stack of postdocs , waiting for the next permanent position , which would be awarded not to the best candidate , but to the one who has waited long enough . Of course , I 'm on purpose exaggerating the description , and this is no way can be generalised : many , if not most professors will actually recruit the best possible candidate , local or not . But I have observed this behaviour several times , in different countries , and although forbidding local recruitment would n't solve every problem , it would perhaps solve that one .
As a TT at a small liberal arts college let me just say that to gain tenure I have to do both . In my field this amounts to having five or six new articles or a book before tenure . There is a very large spectrum of liberal arts colleges and the top end ( figure top 100 ) all claim that research active professors are better able to teach up to date content in their field and to better demonstrate to their students why the field is exciting and worth studying . ( By ` all ' I mean I do not know of a counter example . ) At the very top end of the liberal arts spectrum you have schools that give their professors R1 teaching loads and more funding . The only thing they would lack are the graduate students . Sure at the lower end of the spectrum are places that only expect teaching . Then there are the community colleges which openly admit they are teaching only institutions but they acknowledge that their mission is distinct . Another section of schools I 'd suggest you could take a look at are the second tier state schools , places like CSU Pamona , or University of Central Florida . These are not flagships and focus more on teaching than R1s but you still have to be research active to get tenure . Next time you go to a conference , chat up those folks who seem to be pre-tenure and ask them what their institutions demand . The US is a country with other 4000 colleges and universities . They do not form a linear order from liberal arts colleges to R1 universities . So as always , the situation is more complex than you might think at first .
The reason for using " her " more frequently nowadays is to correct an ongoing imbalance : in general , for a long time , " his " has been used , even where a more neutral pronoun ( " one " ) should have been used instead . Grammatically , however , any of the recipes you suggest would be appropriate : it is only the matter of the particular taste of the author . I would recommend , though , that when using both " he " and " she , " that you use one consistently throughout a particular usage . Do n't write " she/her " in one sentence , and then " he/his " in the one after . A few paragraphs later wo n't be a problem , though . The reason " one " is not nearly as popular is that it is somewhat awkward-sounding ; too many " one " and " one 's " in the same sentence makes it feel too stiff and impersonal . ( It 's a bit of a catch-22 , I know , but that 's the way it is ! ) One other option that you did not mention , though , may be the simplest route of all : simply use collective plural pronouns : use " they , " " their , " and " theirs . " It gives you the benefit of including everybody , without having to contort your writing to do so . ( I would also comment that some books go out of their way to be gender-neutral , particularly through the use of " gender-neutral " names : Chris , Sam , Pat , Jean , and so on . )
I have used Piazza in many mathematics courses . I can say , anecdotally but confidently , that students LOVE the anonymity option . Not everyone uses it , but I have had plenty of them tell me , either in person or ( anonymously ! ) on course evaluations , that they appreciate the option since they can ask a seemingly " dumb " question without fear of appearing ignorant or uninformed . Perhaps this is particularly relevant in mathematics , where anxiety and performance-based fear is , alas , quite normal , but I 'd imagine students in other disciplines would make similar comments .
You are unlikely to get examples about formal hiring bans , in particular in western societies . It would not only be frowned upon , as in this case ; it would also be against university policies , if not downright illegal . The only formal hiring bans I could think of are those implied by more general rules . The most obvious case coming to mind is that about 20 countries do n't allow people with Israeli passport to enter , which means they can not study or teach there either ( about half a dozen or so countries extend this to people with other passports but evidence of a travel to Israel ) . Unfortunately , it is possible that the professor was speaking a truth about what some consider in their hiring decisions ... where usually they would only have the common sense to not explicitly admit the true reasons for their decisions . They would start where this professor is now : claiming that their labs are full . This is human nature , and academics are no better or worse than their fellow humans dealing with their fear and prejudice in regrettable ways .
It 's important to distinguish between the legal commitment and the moral commitment . To the best of my understanding , US research universities morally commit to funding their STEM students , i.e. , any student joining the university should act on the expectation that they will be funded one way or another throughout their education . There are any number of ways in which that can go wrong , however , and leave a department in a position where it is unable to fulfill that commitment . For example , public universities are typically subject to review and interference from the state legislature , such as <URL> . They can also potentially face interference on a much more fine-grained level from its ( state politically appointed ) Board of Regents , who are not under a legal obligation to respect the tradition of academia independence . I would thus not be surprised if many universities carefully weaken their language to avoid a legal commitment , and therefore attempt to immunize themselves from student lawsuits should such a situation arise .
end question
start question
Should academic papers necessarily carry a sober tone ?
Are jokes or anecdotes fine as long as they do not appear forced ? To me , there is a single measure for this : does a sentence X contribute to the paper , or not . If the answer is , it should n't be there at all . To apply the principle to the joke : if the joke illustrates a common problem which needs a solution , or illustrates a common ( perhaps insufficient ) solution to a well stated problem , then it certainly has a place in a research paper . I understand scientific writing as a form of literature . I do not see any reason for literature ( including scientific discourse ) not to be entertaining as well , when appropriate . But everything has its time and place . However , it should n't be forced and has to fit the main contribution of the paper , hence the filter rule above .
There is a difficult tension to balance here : one the one hand , you do n't want to <URL> . On the other hand , the people reading the application will have seen a lot , and will probably be pretty good at detecting somebody puffing themselves up and will not be impressed . Two useful strategies for approaching this : Follow the writing strategy of " show , do n't tell " . If you 've done something awesome , do n't tell that you were awesome : " I made important contributions to the study of newts . " Instead , show the thing that you 've done : " I studied newts under Prof. Coolness as a junior , and our paper on how newts prefer turn clockwise under the full moon was recently accepted to the Journal of Arbitrary Herpetology . " Give the reader enough evidence that they can conclude awesomeness for themselves . Once you 've got a draft written , ask a trusted professor to look at it and check whether you 've left anything important out or are overinflating yourself .
Are jokes or anecdotes fine as long as they do not appear forced ? To me , there is a single measure for this : does a sentence X contribute to the paper , or not . If the answer is , it should n't be there at all . To apply the principle to the joke : if the joke illustrates a common problem which needs a solution , or illustrates a common ( perhaps insufficient ) solution to a well stated problem , then it certainly has a place in a research paper . I understand scientific writing as a form of literature . I do not see any reason for literature ( including scientific discourse ) not to be entertaining as well , when appropriate . But everything has its time and place . However , it should n't be forced and has to fit the main contribution of the paper , hence the filter rule above .
The <URL> Of , relating to , or characteristic of an educational institution or environment ; concerned with the pursuit of research , education , and scholarship ; scholarly , educational , intellectual . has a focus on education . The <URL> Academic institution is an educational institution dedicated to education and research , which grants academic degrees . also has a focus on education and a requirement to grant academic degrees . To me degree granting is critical to being an academic institution . I do not think of any non-degree granting institute as being academic . Places like the German MPIs and US National Laboratories are cutting edge research institutes , but not academic-institutes . Non-academic research institutions often have a grants office , just like their academic counterparts . Further employees at non-academic institutions that wish to conduct research can often get a research appointment at a local university .
There are two points in your question : writing a good paper and the fear of being rejected . For the first point , there is no miracle recipe , although there are some clear guidelines of what is expected to be in a paper . You can find many useful resources on the Internet on " how to write an academic paper " , and you will have to select what suits you the best . In general , a good way is to understand what you like in your favorite papers , and reproduce the same scheme . As for the fear of rejection , well , it 's a bit cliché , but you just have to get over it . People get papers rejected all the time , even the top professors , sometimes it is fair , sometimes it is not . If you plan to pursue in the academic world , you should expect to get papers rejected until you retire . It 's normal not to like it , but somehow , you have to deal with it . Most of the time , when a piece of work reaches a good level of maturity , I build a quick " submission tree " , that is , I look at which conferences I could submit the work , and the overlap between the notification dates and the submission dates . At the end , I have something like : I could submit to Conf1 , and if it 's rejected , I have one week to make it better and to submit to Conf2 , and if it 's rejected , ... , or I could submit to Conf3 , and if it 's rejected , I have two weeks to work more and submit to Conf4 , etc. . So , basically , the possibility of rejection is directly included in the submission strategy .
The issue with getting a letter from a post-doc is not their job title ; it 's the degree of experience they have with different students , and the authority with which they can judge their preparedness for a graduate program . So , it 's not that a letter from a postdoc is unacceptable and as soon as they have an assistant professorship everything is great . There 's a subtle continuum where the more experience someone has , the more weight their letter has , because they have known so many more students . Also , this is a bit more cynical , but humans are social creatures . It 's well-nigh unavoidable that they give more weight to a letter from someone they know personally . A postdoc is much less likely to be well-connected and thus able to leverage this for you .
Since we 're talking about the humanities , let me answer with a Simpsons quote : Ned Flanders : I do n't understand . Is God punishing me ? Reverend Lovejoy : Short answer , " yes " with an " if " ; long answer , " no , " with a " but " I believe that academic CVs should be tailored to the requirements of the situation . If you 're applying for a faculty position in the Department of Film and Media Studies , a Kickstarter campaign in which you raised money for an independent movie is appropriate . Otherwise , adding this information is about as useful as saying that you like pina coladas and getting caught in the rain . PS . If you were <URL> , I 'd hire you right away if I was head of Social Psychology or Cultural Studies . PPS . Thank god , I 'm not head of an academic department .
The definition of sabbatical in Wikipedia refers to labor terminology rather than academic sabbatical leave . As a privilege to employees , they can have temporary unpaid leave ( for any personal reason ) without losing their job . However , academic sabbatical historically is somehow different . When a scholar needs peace of mind to focus on a challenging issue , s/he will visit a new institute to experience a new atmosphere . While still being in the academic environment , not having heavy official duties . There are several motivations for a sabbatical leave ( at least as I have seen ) : A manager finishes an administrative position ( e.g. Dean ) , and wishes to rest in a different atmosphere , but not far from academia . A researcher working on a new idea , prefers to focus on his/her work somewhere with less commitments on everyday responsibilities ( e.g. teaching , advising , etc ) . A researcher is exploring new possibilities and opportunities , spend some time in a new department to live with new colleagues for a while . A researcher is collaborating with another group and spend a year in the host research group as a visiting scientist/professor while being on sabbatical leave from his/her institute . A professor in a mid-level university finds a temporary position in a top university . This is the base for many visiting professors in the US universities , e.g. international professors can experience working in the US universities . Even there are associate/assistant professors who find a post-doc position in the top universities , and use sabbatical leave , not to lose their job at home . In any case , sabbatical allowance mainly depends on the university employment rules .
Your problem is quite common among researchers . Actually it 's not really a problem , being overwhelmed like this is just natural . Me and all my friends and colleagues face it . How I overcame this issue : I try to focus on one paper at a time . Try starting reading the latest research paper on a particular subject and go back chronologically . Print the research paper in hard copy , leave your computer and cell phone ( if possible ) behind and start reading the paper . The point here is to avoid internet access . No matter what question you have , do not search it right away . Write it on the side notes and keep reading . Most of the time the answer will be in the later sections of the same article . Even if you do not get the answers , once you finish reading the paper , you can go online and find all the answers . That 's how I read literature without falling in a rabbit hole . Also , reading the Abstract first , then the conclusion , and then the rest of the paper is also effective . For me , changing place of study also helps to focus and good instrumental music is always a plus .
Simply list in the section about employment who you worked for . The places you apply for may ignore this if they so choose , but at least you can document that you were working during this time and were not , as one could be tempted to speculate , in jail , unemployed , or homeless . But then , it may also be that the people who look at your application think that it is quite beneficial to the program to hire someone who has seen other parts of the world , whether or not you learned specific tasks and skills there that are useful for your postdoc work .
In my opinion ( and three years working in the admission committee ) , it 's less about the tone but the arguments and evidences you cite in the statement . For tone , keep it overall professional and formal , do not use slang and do not write to them as if they 're your high school friends . Write as if you 're writing to a teacher you respect . For your arguments and evidences , I 'd suggest focusing on : A certain story and experience that gave you the epiphany , inspiration , or determination to pursue this study/career . Stay true to the experience and avoid using too many tacky expressions/cliches . Combination of training and past experience that have made you a unique and valuable member of the institute and field of study . Career aspiration with specific goals in mind . For instance , how would the degrees or positions enable you to achieve new goals . While the goals and aims can be of personal level , it 's important that you can also integrate your own goals into a larger system ( like the field of study , or the larger entities your field serves ) as well . The decision of whether to include some personality traits of one self is really situation-dependent . But if you want to let the committee know that you 're a " good communicator , " remember to provide concrete examples as well . Hope this helps and good luck ! ... the answers there kinda encourage to use informal tone . What do you think ? To me , being " informal " can mean , among many things , use of slang , figures of speech , and conversation-like writing style . Some of these do add color to the personal statement but I 'm reluctant to endorse the statement that one should go informally without clearly listing what kind of informal speeches are to be used . Even within figures of speech , some are more acceptable than others in a personal statement . " Deer in headlight " may be fine ; " a kick in the balls " is probably not . I 'd suggest , as I have said , do n't get bogged down by the tone . Be your polite and eager self , and make a case on the three points to persuade the committee members . Treat them like someone you respect and it should be fine .
Different communities mean different things by " application . " In a very mathematical community , " application " may mean " figuring out what relevance this idea might have to something in the real world . In a very industrial community , " application " may mean " has been deployed at industrial scale . " The relative scale of theory and application is also nicely illustrated in <URL> . I think that you are doing the right thing by looking at past proceedings and asking , " Are these people interested in talking about work like mine ? " This is important not just for getting your paper accepted , but also for the value that you will get out of the meeting , both in terms of the feedback you get and also in terms of what you can learn and the connections that you can build . For a more efficient route to finding a good community , you can also talk to your advisor or other mentors you may have , who will likely know the communities better and readily be able to provide good suggestions about where to send your paper .
I have been part of several hiring committees in a New Zealand university and : We are instructed to never ask about a candidate 's family situation , religion , sexual orientation , etc. . Personally , I do not want to know about your family situation to avoid any perceived bias in the hiring process . Any mention of the situation on your part ( like ' we are a bundle ' ) could be perceived as making the hiring more complicated . Unless your application is miles ahead of the rest ( unlikely ) why would a committee want the extra complication ? The only situation where I could see an advantage is when you family situation would suggest higher chances of success . For example , you are applying to a job in the middle of nowhere ( and potentially candidates would feel isolated ) and your family happens to be from there . I would wait to say ' we are a bundle ' ( if that 's what you have in mind ) to when you are offered the position . Ideally , you would never have to disclose your family situation until the university is willing to pay for your moving costs .
In the US , you generally address colleagues of a similar status by their first names -- so your fellow faculty members would definitely be addressed informally . This would of course extend to collaborators and acquaintances in other departments . I think the only exception to this would be in the case of formal communications -- an official memorandum or letter from a faculty member to someone in the university administration , for instance . But otherwise , in any oral or informal written correspondence , I 'd stick to first names . ( In other countries , follow the appropriate local traditions , as they may be very different from US standards . )
My own busy-person email triage has three tiers : No response needed = near-zero cost Minimal response needed = minimal cost Response with significant thought and care needed = significant context-switching cost A brief " thank you " email would go into category # 1 : no bother or burden , but noticed and appreciated all the same . In other words , send the email : it 's not a significant nuisance , and it 's nice to be appreciated .
From experience , both as a member of ResearchGate and as a postgraduate , I would say the main question is more about worth than about acceptability . Sounds like you did the right thing when you posted these papers the first time , with characterizing them as undergraduate works , therefore managing expectations . You feel these papers may be of interest to others ; fair enough . Statistics of opens and reads , and any message you get about them could be a good indication of how worthy they are to peers . If nobody gets to see them , you might as well keep them to yourself . Over 100 reads for an undergraduate paper sounds rather cool , and might give you an interesting clue about the popularity of your paper topic , and might encourage you to work further around the same topic for further research and papers .
I would not put such a " paper " in the publications section . After all , there is no publication , apart from an abstract . In my field , conferences usually do not have proceedings , and if they do , proceedings papers have very little value . Also , conference abstracts are not peer-reviewed . I 've only heard of a single rejected conference abstract , and this was for political reasons . If you have a dedicated conferences section , then I would put the " paper " there , as to not suggest that there is a publication .
I do not generally see people highlighting their name in a CV in this way , and I do not think that it is necessary ( though perhaps the culture in experimental physics is different ) . In a CV , you are by definition an author of every listed paper , and papers where you are first author leap out pretty easily to the eye already -- unless you 've got lots of papers , in which case , why worry about it ? If you highlight your name , on the other hand , I think that it could come across as insecure , since it is not normally done .
No . The publisher does not and can not guarantee the correctness of the papers . Also the peer-review system is not perfect . That being said , even though a single paper might have some chance of being wrong , as studies are replicated , and follow up studies verify and extend the conclusions , the scientific community can build up stronger claims .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
end question
start question
Is it bad if I do n't feel like an impostor ?
This professor was just trying to reassure the folks who are feeling doubtful or worried . Bottom line : if you feel worried about something , that 's okay , it 's a common phenomenon , and feeling that way is nothing to worry about ; if you do n't feel worried about something , great ! No need to feel worried !
Working from a bibliography in another paper is not plagiarism . It 's actually a good research technique . As you read those papers , check their bibliographies , too , and so on . Pretty soon you will have thorough coverage of the subject . Do note that you can not just plop those 50-60 or so references into your own bibliography but do nothing else , nor paraphrase what someone else has said about them , but without reading them . That 's called reference padding and is academic misconduct . You have to actually read the papers . When you do that , you may find that some of them do n't fit your needs as well as you may have at first thought . You will also find it easy to write your own thoughts about those papers , and so will not have to worry about paraphrasing another author .
If you want to refer to his work ( i.e. his results , discussion or conclusions ) , you should cite it . If you want a reference to the particular piece of information he cited ( the sentences describing plasma etching before his call to ref . 4 ) , then you should find a direct source : either a textbook or review on the topic . This would be much better than a research article ( or thesis ) , especially one badly sourced .
In my experience with graduate admissions in mathematics departments , all complete applications are looked at by departmental faculty ( and mildly incomplete ones may be looked at as well , albeit more briefly ) . So I think it is likely that your letters will be read . However , you say that your GRE scores are " much below average " . I will assume that your description is somewhat factually based and thus that they are below the 35th percentile . In my department -- about the 50th best -- we would like to see higher scores than that , but we can take chances on some applicants for whom that is the only weak point . Admission to the top 10 math departments in the US is much more competitive than this : they can fill their classes with applicants who are extremely successful according to all the standard metrics . If they deviate from that then they will do so only for someone who is truly exceptional . You say that your " thesis features some new results known to experts but not otherwise " . I do n't mean to be harsh , but this sounds quite equivocal : to a research mathematician " new " implies that it is not known to experts . I suppose you would have mentioned if you had published your results , so I will say that it is often difficult to publish such results in a reputable journal . Anyway " truly exceptional " here means that you have results that were not just unknown to everyone but are actually surprising / exciting to the experts , and that they are eager to build on your work and learn more about your ideas . It sounds like what you 've done is write an ordinarily strong master 's thesis , and in my opinion this is not going to offset your poor GRE scores . My advice is to apply to a lot of departments . Every individual committee gets to decide how much to value GRE scores ; I have certainly met individual faculty members who do not place much stock in them , so while it is unlikely that an entire admissions committee would feel that way , it must happen sometimes . If you do n't get into a good enough department , you should consider deferring for a year , retaking the GRE under better conditions and really nailing it . If you really do feel that you can do much better on it , then waiting one year and then going to a top department is probably a better career move in the long run . However , if you wait a year , take the GRE again and do n't do better , it will be disappointing , so you should make an effort to figure out whether you will really do better , which may involve taking practice tests but also some soul-searching and personal honesty . Good luck . And to everyone else who is reading this : yes , for math PhD students , the GRE is a very serious business . Please take it seriously and plan to do well , rather than trying to figure out how to paint over this weakness in your application .
I assume that there are often-if-not-always internal candidates for open positions , in academia and outside . There are always students looking for Ph.D. slots , Ph.D. students looking for postdoc positions , assistant and associate professors looking to move up to the next level . ( Same for non-faculty positions , but that seems OT . ) Sometimes the people responsible for the position may not even know yet about such internal candidates , because they may not yet have sent in their application . So the question probably rather is whether these internal candidates are already frontrunners . The professor may want his extremely productive Ph.D. student to continue in the postdoc slot but may need to advertise externally for some procedural reason . The department may want to continue a certain research specialization and plan on promoting the retiring professor 's assistant prof. In such a situation , external candidates will need to be very convincing to win . But : how often will the external candidate be told this ? If the external advertisement is legally required , the hiring people may even open themselves up to litigation if they openly tell an applicant that they are only soliciting outside applications as a fig leaf . On the other hand , the department may explicitly be searching for " new blood " , so internal candidates may actually have worse chances than external ones . Which , again , nobody will tell you ( or the internal candidate ) . Of course , it makes sense to tap your network and see whether the grapevine can tell you more than official channels . However , this kind of information can be unreliable . So if you hear from multiple sources that a given position will be filled internally , it may make sense to not make the effort . Thus : there will likely be internal candidates , but you will probably not know how good their chances are . If you are a good match for the position , go and apply . Do n't worry about internal candidates . This is one part of the hiring situation you ca n't control , just like the mood of your interviewers . Giving up on an application because there is an internal candidate will be counterproductive in the long run .
I 'm currently on a Masters program in Japan , and I also did n't have any experience with research at all when I had to write a research plan , which made me very stressed . As someone without research experience , how should I deal with this situation ? There is no other way . You 'll have to write your own research plan and contact your potential advisor . It is pretty hard to write a research plan when you have no clue , but here is what I did : Find something you would like to research that can actually be done at the lab you pretend to go . Read about previous publications on the laboratory 's homepage , read about your potential advisor 's areas of interest . You should know how to justify why you chose that lab as your potential advisor will probably ask you during email exchange . Now that you have something that can be done at where you want to go , you 'll have to justify why you chose that theme . Try to write about the potential applications of [ your research theme ] or how that will save the world or make everybody happy . Being able to strongly justify why your research is important is also essential . Describe concretely which approach you will take to tackle [ your research theme ] . Of course you might have no idea , but you should at least have a hint from the point you researched the stuff that can be done on the lab . Write a rough schedule of about how much time your research will take ( literature review , experiment designs/simulations , analysis , time for writing up your thesis etc ) . Your research plan should have at least introduction , objectives , methodology ( possibly with a schedule ) , and references . Include references from japanese authors if possible . Remember that there is some flexibility , and once you are here you might find other research themes that are also interesting and/or more feasible than the one you initially planned . Contacting your potential advisor is also a very important step . Professors from prestigious universities receive a LOT of emails and yours may just be easily ignored depending on your attitude . Depending on the university 's guidelines , you 'll have to first introduce yourself to the university 's international office ( " Kokusai-ka " or 国際課 ) , which will then contact your potential advisor . You should be very humble and polite . Of course they might not expect it from an international student , but it will give you a positive image . Overdo it and you 'll look desperate . In the first email , apologize for the sudden contact , introduce yourself , write up which university you 're coming from , from which major . Say that you 've read [ potential advisor ] 's articles about [ research theme ] and that you 're interested in doing research under his/her guidance , and ask if that is possible ( the lab may be full capacity ) . Do NOT attach anything in the first email , it 's suspicious and will look rude ( like you 're pushing something for them to do for you ) . If you are lucky , you might receive a reply within 2 weeks . If it is positive , you may be asked to send your research plan , academic transcript , TOEFL or JLPT certificate and possibly be asked some questions via email or Skype . At this stage you will probably be fine . In case your first option gets rejected , write another email from scratch for other potential advisors ( read his/her papers , etc - they suspect when the email looks like it had just one or two names changed , it suggests that you send the same email for many other places and conveys that you are desperate ) . In any case , be prepared not to receive any reply at all . I tried contacting over 15 potential advisors/laboratories and got replies from 3 of them . I got rejected from one because the lab was full , and from another one because I did n't have a JLPT certificate . Is there any taught master program in Japan ? I 'm currently in a taught masters program in STEM field . We have many lectures , tests , appointments , seminars , etc. pretty much like undergrad , except that grading is mostly done by assignments instead of tests . Of course , it will depend on your university and department .
Publishing things that you know are erroneous is a good way to get a really bad scientific reputation . Depending on how severe it is , it might go so far as to be labelled fraud and formally sanctioned , basically killing your career . If it 's important , then yes , you need to fix it . If it 's not published yet , then fix it before you publish it . If it 's published , then you will need to submit a correction or possibly even a retraction . Good scientists do this , and <URL> .
It is considered an undergraduate degree because no degree is required in order to start the degree . Undergraduate masters degrees are increasingly common in the UK , <URL> . Postgraduate taught degrees are not currently eligible for government funding , so an integrated masters degree is often the cheapest route to a masters degree . The integrated MEng degree developed early , since an accredited masters is a requirement to become a chartered engineer in the UK . Such courses , at least in theory , include the content of a bachelors degree , plus the content of a standalone postgraduate masters degree , often with an option to abandon early and receive a bachelor 's degree . PhDs , MScs and MPhils almost invariably require a degree as an entry requirement , hence they are postgraduate degrees .
If you know your field , it is easy to know how reputable some journal is . You find papers in it by the best people in your field publishing the most important results there you are already familiar with . On the other hand if you do not know your field yet , I would advise you to get to know it at the glance at least first . Familiarise yourself with the most important and fundamental results and findings and the most influential authors . You should identify these authors quickly by seeing them in many various papers cited again and again by different researchers . Then look where these authors published the papers to find out what journals are likely to be more reliable than others . Moreover , if you know your field , you should be able to discern a value and validity of a paper quickly from the abstract .
I am currently the Graduate Coordinator of my department ( mathematics , UGA ) , and it is the season for me to get a lot of emails from would-be or might-be graduate students . Variations on " Will my application be competitive if I apply ? " are the most common question I 'm getting . It 's okay to ask this question in the sense that it does n't bother me at all and I will reply with something . On the other hand , my reply in most cases has been along the lines " Thank you for your interest in our program . I encourage you to apply . " I do n't think it 's in anyone 's best interests -- mine , my department 's , or the questioner 's -- for me to try to evaluate the degree of competitiveness of an application based on very incomplete , self-described information . I can ( and do ) address the required components of the application . If based on the information provided it seems like applying to a graduate ( usually PhD ) program at a top 50 math department may be a mismatch -- e.g. the applicant 's undergraduate major is in something other than mathematics ( or a closely related field with many mathematics classes taken ) -- then I might explore that a bit in the reply . But the bottom line is that the application process is relative and competitive , so more than likely we ca n't know how any given applicant will fare until we see all the applications : i.e. , until we go through the application process . ( However , if the self-described profile of the applicant sounds very strong , then I may mention that and encourage them more enthusiastically . ) A few final comments : 1 ) I can see that it is frustrating to apply , perhaps repeatedly , without knowing one 's chances . But in fact the state of applying for a bunch of things without knowing whether one will get them is a quite common one in later academia , so maybe it would be well to wrap your mind around it now . ( It is not a trivial thing to wrap one 's mind around . I was a really excellent high school student . When I took the PSATs I expected to become a National Merit Scholar , and I did . I applied to the University of Chicago not just because I expected to get admitted but because I expected to get a merit-based scholarship , and I did . I had enough of this kind of expected success that when it came to optional academic competitions / scholarships for which the outcome was in real doubt -- and especially when I did n't see success improving my life in any clear way -- I often did n't apply / show up / give my best effort , to the point of occasionally disappointing my mentors . Looking back at all this , I must say that I find my behavior quite rational . But it 's not the way that " grownup academia " works . ) I spend weeks every year writing a big national grant application ; thus far , I 've applied for the grant five times , gotten it once , not gotten it three times , and the latest time is pending and will be for many months . For this grant ( NSF ) , I do get feedback every year , which is helpful overall ( though sometimes frustrating in its particulars ) . On the other hand , I have applied twice for a smaller , privately funded grant ( Simons ) . When I did n't get it the first time and got no feedback about it , I was pretty taken aback and felt like complaining about it . But I thought it through : it was clearly to my advantage to suck it up and apply again . I did , and I got the grant the second time . That 's grownup academic life -- relatively successful grownup academic life , in fact . 2 ) There is a kernel of advice lurking in point 1 ) above . The best time to ask for feedback is soon after someone has carefully evaluated your application . If you 've applied to a program and did n't get in , you have every right to ask why and how you could improve your application . It sounds like you think that the reason you did n't get in were your GRE scores : is that what you were told ? If so , given that you improved on the thing they told you to improve upon : that sounds good , you should probably reapply . Finally , if you already spoke to someone at the program , they told you to improve your GRE scores , and now you have , then it makes considerably more sense to me to continue that conversation with the person who told you to improve your scores : given that your GRE scores have improved so-and-so much , do they think you should reapply ? In that situation you have a better chance of being told something substantive , I think . 3 ) My program is relatively small ( we generally enroll no more than 15 students per year ) . In quality , the distance from the very top programs and from " less than serious " PhD programs are each rather large . Once in a while we " steal " a student from a top twenty program , and sometimes for various reasons we take chances on students with inferior backgrounds . So our admissions process really plays out a bit differently every year . I could imagine that a program which is significantly larger , better or worse than ours might have less variation . I suppose I would nevertheless be surpr
This is exactly how most of the really great PhD students I 've seen have all started . Working on a problem with unknowns is a process called " research . " Clearly , you are going to have to find some collaborators with more experience in the field than your advisor , but that 's part of the process as well . Hopefully , your advisor can assist with networking / introductions / etc. . The support of your advisor will be critical ( as it is for all PhD students ) . The trick is to make sure you have a backup plan and a way to convert to it if necessary . Do n't spend three years mucking around if you 're not making progress . But , spending 6 months investigating if there is something there -- that 's well worth it .
In my experience , good primary investigators are always rather unbalanced human beings in one way or another . If you are n't intensively passionate about something closely connected to the research process , then you ca n't last , because so much of leading research involves shaping your own agenda . That said , you can still be doing work in research , even at a Ph.D. level or beyond , without having such independence and drive , but instead being a " super-technician " following somebody else 's agenda and leadership . The scientific ideal holds that every scientist should be of the primary investigator type , and Ph.D. programs are typically designed to select for and cultivate this . That said , in practice it depends a lot on the group that you are in . Some professors expect their students to develop their own research agendas very strongly , others are ( whether they admit it or even realize it ) more looking for good technicians to execute on their grants , and a Ph.D. is more of a byproduct . We do n't really like to admit this as a community , but with the current market structure of academia , we actually need to have the second type of education and people as well . Look at it from the perspective of simple flux balance analysis : the rate of Ph.D. students entering programs is far higher than the rate at which primary investigators retire or die . If every Ph.D. student either ultimately ends up as a primary investigator or a " failure , " then it means most Ph.D. students are failures . But I do n't think that is actually the case : people who are n't hyper-passionate to the point where it distorts their lives can still succeed just fine in a Ph.D. program and at research , they just are likely to take one of the other tracks besides being a professor or other form of PI . That said , even if you do n't end up going the harrowing road of PI-ship , research work is very hard , and there are a lot of easier and/or more financially rewarding ways to make a living . To get a Ph.D. , you need at least enough passion for the subject to find more value in this difficult and low-paid path than in any of your alternatives .
The best source for CS jobs in the US is the <URL> . They maintain a <URL> that AFAIK most departments post to .
I do n't think the professor minds too much , but you should of course be prepared for him to decline if he chooses to . Though I myself could hardly care less , I have colleagues who would definitely think unsuitable ( because it 's not how it 's planned ) . However , I think the other students might mind , as you noted , if they began to see it as you " stealing " time from their limited allocation . As always , sharing is no problem unless the resource is scarce :) So , in short , I do n't think it 's a big problem , given that you are mindful of others .
Is it better to have 2 good letters or recommendation or 2 good and 1 bad letter ? Definitely , it 's better to have two good letters . A bad letter is a very , very bad thing . They 're not counting -- they 're reading for understanding .
Whenever I 've taught , I would find no problem an action like yours . You might have pointed out a mistake ( in which case it 's honest and respectable to point it out ) , and you might have benefited from partial credit ( in which case , it 's easy for the professor to tell you or to ignore the correction ) . I personally would have also found it a delightful breath of fresh air and a break from the students grubbing and grinding for a few extra points , and would feel warm and fuzzy feelings toward such a student . Anybody who teaches ends up with a distorted view of the student population because most of their time is spend dealing with the most problematic and annoying students , while the vast majority of the student body who are having no problems are entirely invisible to them . A reminder of the honesty and integrity of the mostly silent many may thus be quite appreciated .
I would include which certain aspects of the faculty would support your intentions and why , especially if you can include meaningful references to their previously published work . For example " I believe that University X would be a great place to undertake my research into topic Y because it has a great reputation in this field . For example books A and B published by person C are well known texts in the field and I believe the research of person D in the area of E would compliment mine . "
I would say no . When you are awarded an IPRS , you will get the conditions that you need to adhere to . At my university , there is no clause that says you have to pay back anything if you quit . If I were you , apply first , and if you are successful , look at the conditions carefully .
You ask about " stick together " . This is probably not an ideal idea . Generally , in a conference , you want freedom of action . Going with your mother may induce you to " talk to the known " person whenever you are unsure ; i.e. you talk to her whenever you are not sure how to approach people - the notorious " escape route " - but this is exactly what conferences are not for . When I went to my first conference , I made a point to talk to as many people as I could . At the beginning , it is quite a leap of faith . But later you find , it is fun , you get to know people , and you get to know new research directions and ideas . Sometimes it feels difficult , but remember : all you people have one thing in common - the topic of the conference . You are very unlikely to go wrong starting a conversation about that . If you are unsure how to start , start with people which look like they are alone at the conference , and probably a bit lost . They will be grateful to get somebody to talk to ; you may meet interesting colleagues ( do n't think that , because they are alone , they are not good scientists - good scientists may not be good at socialising ) , and notch up a good deed , to boot . It is fine to take your mother to social events and the like , but I recommend that , if she joins the conference , say , because she is interested , that she stays mostly in the background and does not send signals of " supervision " to others or - even more importantly - to you . If you can keep that balance , then , by all means , bring her with you .
No . ISBNs are assigned to published books ( print or electronic ) , and ISSNs are assigned to published journals ( or other serials , such as conference proceedings ) . arXiv is not publishing either of these and so will not issue such identifiers . This is effectively saying " if it 's been published , it 's not allowed , but informal circulation online or as a working paper is fine " . Having an ISBN or ISSN is a simple ( though of course not perfect ) test to see if something counts as " properly " published . ( It 's worth noting that papers as such never get an ISSN - the serials they are published in have ISSNs but this will be common to all papers in that serial . )
end question
start question
Is it wrong to impose a challenging time constraint on exams ?
The objective of an assessment can vary from one lecture to another . Quite often , the point is simply to validate whether the expected learning outcomes of the lecture have been met . For instance , if an expected outcome is to know almost by heart how to write an array sorting program , then it 's quite reasonable to ask to write a small amount of lines of code in a fixed amount of time . If , on the other hand , the expected outcome is at a higher level of understanding ( in the sense of <URL> ) , for instance by asking to design and assess a new data structure to handle a new problem , then it could be more reasonable to expect more time . The problem you are referring to by " would never have such extreme time constraints in real life " is addressed with the notion of authentic learning <URL> , which identifies the four following themes for a learning to be authentic : 1 ) the activity involves real-world problems that mimic the work of professionals in the discipline with presentation of findings to audiences beyond the classroom ; 2 ) open-ended inquiry , thinking skills , and metacognition are addressed ; 3 ) students engage in discourse and social learning in a community of learners ; and 4 ) students are empowered through choice to direct their own learning in relevant project work . Authentic learning comes with its upsides and downsides ( the reference linked acts as a survey paper , if you are interested ) , so it 's not necessarily the best approach . In particular , <URL> note that the reliance on traditional instruction is not simply a choice made by individual faculty -- students often prefer it . For instance , not everybody wants to be tested on writing code in a highly complex environment , using bugged code written by other people , implementing specifications that are sub-optimal , but the client want them in this way , which could be a typical real world situation . I do n't think you should complain about time constraints , but if you believe that authentic learning would be more beneficial to you and your fellow students , you should probably discuss with the professor about the objective of the assessment . Lombardi , M. M. ( 2007 ) . Authentic learning for the 21st century : An overview . Educause learning initiative , 1 ( 2007 ) , 1-12 . Rule , Audrey C. ( 2006 ) . The Components of Authentic Learning . Journal of Authentic Learning , Volume 3 , Number 1 , Pages 1-10 , August 2006
I do n't have any private job experience in Scotland or Netherlands and I do n't know your conditions as well , so I do n't really know what suit 's your conditions indeed . I am focusing on your first question here . Full-time learning is mostly suitable for the candidates who are not aiming to work outside the university . For instance , students who are able to stay full-time in the university and do their academic chores are more encouraged to apply for these discipline . Part-time learning is more suitable for those who want to work outside the university as well as attending their classes and conducting their research at the university . This type suits the people who work outside academia and are not willing to be at the university all the time . Please note that , some universities hire or pay their research students while they are studying at the university . This does not mean that those students are part-time students because they are simply working or hired at the university . These are full-time students who are doing academic work . These are different that part-time student who works in industry . As you mentioned in your question that you are interested in several courses , it comes to my mind that it does not make any difference to you to study in a specific area ; so this eases your way to find a program for yourself . As an instance , in a university , one department may not offer part-time degrees to the applicants while the other department may offer various taught and research part-time programs that the prospective student can easily choose one for himself . However , as far as you are seeking for a degree with the insight to your professional career , I encourage you to choose the course and degree which helps you with your professional responsibilities and your interests . Do n't run , Walk ! Please choose a part-time program wisely ; Please carefully read the regulations of the programs you are applying to and check the minimum requirements for part-time degrees at the university where you want to study . These programs may require some extra application process , interviews or documents for their applicants . The duration of the part-time degree is longer than a full-time degree . For instance , a masters part-time degree will have two year duration compared to one year full-time study . Please note that the duration of the degrees varies from one department to another and one country to another . If you are going to do research in your part-time program , please note that some part-time degrees require their students to do full-time research during their studies . I mean , you have applied to a part-time degree . Although you are allowed to study for a longer period of time ( for instance part-times may take classes in four semesters while full-times are allowed to finish their classes in two semesters ) but the course requires you to spend two semesters full-time research as well . So , please check whether these conditions exist or whether you are eligible for such programs or not . You may need some scholarships/funding to support your studies financially . Then you should double check whether the scholarship covers the part-time degrees or not . To my best of knowledge , some scholarships require the students to attend only full-time courses . Check the cost of the program you are applying for . Although it seems that the full-time students will pay lower fees compared to the full-time students , but , keep in mind that the total payment of both disciplines may be the same and only the part-time student may pay lower amounts of money in each semester . On the other hand , there may be some part-time degrees which are due to higher educational fees . As far as the rules are different in different countries and departments , please check the financial part carefully before you apply for any degrees . Check the accommodation and housing for part-time students as well . Although it seems that you are staying with your family ; if you are seeking to stay in another city where you are working and in this city , you are seeking a part-time degree ; please check whether they offer housing to the part-time students or not . Part-time degrees may only allow you to work inside the city where the university is located . So , if you are working outside the city , check the regulations of the university and see if you can manage to attend your classes regularly or not . Part-time learning differs from distance learning and online degrees . These disciplines have different regulations and their degrees may have lower or higher values in the industry you are working . As far as you need your degree for your professional career , make sure which type suits you well and do not think these degree-types are the same . Pay Attention to your studies too . Please do n't think that because you are working and you are a part-time student ; you are allowed not to study and not to attend your classes and fail the exams . Your role at the university is studying and res
It is normal . Often there is one referee who writes an extensive review , whose judgment weight heaviest with the editor . If there are 4 reviews , 3 are in the " publish " half of the spectrum but are brief ( not adequately justifying the recommendation ) , and there is 1 " reject " review which extensively argues against publication , an editor will either have to apply his/her own knowledge of the field and decide which argument carries the day , or will need to request an additional review . Good editors do not just count up the plus and minus values , they have to evaluate the evidence in the reviews . If you make the case for reconsideration , I think it should focus on the question of whether positive evidence in the reviews has been undervalued . There 's not much you can do if the negative reviewer is ( unbeknownst to you ) The Leading Authority .
No ! Unless you uploaded a copy of your submitted paper to public preprint server like PeerJ Preprints , ArXiv or BioRxiv . If you uploaded a public preprint you can add that to your ORCID profile . Extra note : About your published works , as you know , you can add your publications from any publisher to your ORCID profile ( after you sign-in to your ORCID account ) by clicking on " Add Works " . More information is given here : <URL> I 'd recommend the CrossRef Metadata Search as often the easiest method of importing one 's publications , provided those publications have a registered DOI .
I wrote him an email to ask quick but important questions , like , when do you want me to start . I did n't get an answer even after a week . And similar things happened before as well . Some professors are notoriously bad in answering emails . This does not necessarily mean anything . Do n't fret about it . So I want to ask that as a professor , sometimes will you ( on purpose ) to NOT answer emails in time ? I 'm not a professor , but , no , this is not how I would expect an adult person ( in a management position , none the less ) to behave . If the professor is indeed having second thoughts about you and decided to just not answer anymore , I would say you dodged a bullet there . However , I really think that this is unlikely . Just send a polite reminder , or propose to have a quick chat e.g. , over Skype , at a time of the professor 's convenience .
The three things are doing pretty different jobs , and so should be pretty different in content . The abstract is an advert for your paper . Someone might read a list of titles and abstracts ( for example on arXiv ) and decide on that basis whether it 's worth their while downloading and reading the rest of the paper . The abstract has to be attractive , but not fraudulent ( ' truth in advertising ' ! ) . When you read an abstract , you 're trying to find out : ( i ) is this paper in my area ? , ( ii ) is it asking a question I care about ? ( iii ) does the conclusion sound interesting ? You do n't have to summarise the whole paper , but you do have to answer those questions . The introduction gives your reader a map of the paper . By the end of the introduction , your reader should have a pretty good idea of what they 're in for , and where they 're going to end up . They should know what sections they 're probably going to skip , and which ones they look forward to disagreeing with . A paper is not a detective novel : you do n't need cliffhangers or mysteries . After that , the conclusion does n't have a lot of work to do ( at least in my experience ) . It might be the last thing the reader reads of your paper ( that is , unless they care enough about its contents that they 'll re-read it ) , so this is an opportunity for you to frame their memory of it . " We have shown that ... " is the sort of thing you 'd find here . Key points : Remember the reader is a human being , just like you -- talk to them , as you 'd like to be talked to ( far far too many people bizarrely forget this ) . Make it easy for them to read the paper , and easy to agree with you ( that 's why the introduction has a map of the paper , to ease the reader 's way through your golden prose ) . Your reader is asking themself " why am I reading this paper ? " Make sure they have a good answer to that question by the end of the introduction . If you get a colleague to read your draft , get them to answer that question at that point . If they do n't give the answer you want them to , it 's your fault ; so edit . There will probably be some overlap in text in the three parts . That 's OK , but it probably should n't be cut-and-paste .
If you have written the paper , you certainly have the right to be at least a co-author . In fact , from what you said , it seems to me highly dubious that your professor should a an author at all . Being paid as a RA does not waive your right of getting credits for publications you wrote . Your professor is also paid by the university . EDIT : If you would like to talk to your professor about this , I 'd suggest that you talk politely . To be honest , I do n't know how to do this , but I am sure this is important ( and possible ) . Thanks to Captain Emacs for their very valuable advice in the comment .
If you 're applying for academic jobs in the US , your ability to acquire funding is one component of your viability as an academic . So definitely add in the information about the amount of money . It will stand out ( in a good way )
If the instructions were only given orally , and not recorded in written form that is globally accessible ( either in a printed syllabus , or an online forum ) , then you do n't have documentary evidence of the instructions being given . If this is the case , I would follow the standard university procedures , if there are some available , governing this situation . If there are none , then For this offering only , and only in the case where no printed instructions were given , I would allow students to take a make-up exam . On the other hand , if there is documented evidence of your policy , then you should follow the policy as it 's given . In any case , however , it 's always a good idea to allow " documented " reasons ( for example , illness , court appearances , schedule conflicts if exams are scheduled outside of regular time slots ) to be excused , with a clear policy for what will happen ( students can take a makeup exam ; other grades are reweighted ) .
Yes I think It would be different if say , you took one or two of her classes . But it sounds like she advised you a great deal , and thus she should have some investment in your educational success . Especially if you have talked about graduate school before . What is important is you give her notice as soon as possible so she can find some time to do it : Having a newborn is no easy job . I would phrase it as follows : Dear X ( unless you call her professor , then Professor X , but my advisors I call by their first name ) How is your newborn ? I realize you are very busy with your maternity leave , but I was hoping you might have some time to write me a strong letter of recommendation for graduate school . As you might know I am interested in ZQR , and your mentorship over my senior thesis has been essential to my education . Thank you for your time , user I 'd also like to add that while I was applying to PhD programs , the professor who eventually became my advisor was on maternity leave while I was asking her questions about the lab . In confidence , she enjoyed my emails because having newborns , while a joy most of the time , often lacks the intellectual rigor that most people are accustomed to in their day to day conversations . My guess is she will be very happy to do this , and somewhat expects you to ask .
As soon as you are sure , or April 15 , whichever is sooner . You have no ethical obligation to answer before the April 15 deadline , especially if you are waiting for an offer from another department . On the other hand , it would be nice to answer earlier if you can . So it would be nice of you to contact your current department 's admissions committee ( either directly or through your lab director ) , tell them that you have another admission offer but would prefer them , and ask if they 're likely to offer you admission . If they have n't decided , it would be nice of you tell them about your April 15 deadline and ask them when they expect to make up their mind . ( I 'm assuming that you prefer to stay in your current lab . If you 'd rather accept the pending offer , even if you got an offer from your current lab , then what are you waiting for ? If you 're not sure , then what more information do you need ? )
When I have dealt with extra credit in the past , it was simply retained in the records until the very final accounting of scores at the end of the course . Thus , if the exam was out of 100 points , it was still considered to be out of 100 points , and some people simply had more than the maximum possible . When grades were combined together in the final accounting at the end of the course , having a score above the maximum effectively ended up helping compensate for lower scores on other tests ( though perhaps not one-to-one , depending on relative weighting ) . If a particularly amazing student turned out to get more than the maximum in the class overall , then it would n't affect anybody at all : the curve was n't shifted and they simply got top marks , as they would have if they 'd gotten the maximum .
There are ZERO ethics involved . First , you suspect , but do not know , who the original reviewers were . You may be right , you may be wrong . Next , suggestions for potential reviewers are just that -- suggestions . It is the responsibility of the editor to pick appropriate reviewers , and your suggestions are just one potential source of information in the process of doing so . I 'd say even if you recommend people who you respect to referee your papers , they 'll surprise you regularly with critical reviews ( if they 're doing their job ) . The biggest ethical quandry you can get into in the process of recommending referees is probably some sort of pre-arrangement with those you suggest . This is to be avoided as less than stellar behavior .
Is it a good idea to upload a version of the survey on Arxiv and keep on updating it ? It 's worth doing if you have the time and energy , but it 's unconventional . There are some continuously updated survey papers ( such as the <URL> in the Electronic Journal of Combinatorics ) , but the usual expectation is that a survey represents a snapshot in time . As a career matter , writing a second survey on recent results a few years later may get you more attention and credit than updating your original survey . Continuous updates can be especially useful if they are timely and the field is particularly hot , but they have their own limitations in a rapidly developing field ( the original organization may weigh you down if you stick too closely to it ) . From my perspective , the trickiest aspect is what to tell people . If you silently update the paper , it wo n't attract as many readers as announcing that everyone should check back for periodic updates . ( And the whole purpose is to inform the community , so getting readers is important . ) On the other hand , it 's difficult to commit to regular updates , and it 's nice to avoid issues such as whether other authors should be unhappy that their latest results have n't made it into the survey yet . In that case , should the Arxiv version contain a note that an earlier version was published in so-and-so journal ? If you update the arXiv version of a paper after publication , it 's critically important to be clear about how it relates with the published version . Otherwise you risk confusing and upsetting your readers . I would recommend against removing anything from the survey over time . It would still be accessible via past versions on the arXiv for those who know to look there , but it 's annoying to send a student to learn about X in Arani 's survey and have them report back that it 's not covered .
Aeismail makes an important point about location : what 's standard in Germany differs from what 's standard in the US . In a US context , I would strongly recommend against listing things like declined graduate fellowships . It will look strange , and even beyond that it can work to your disadvantage : everybody will already assume you declined several attractive offers , so giving an explicit list will do nothing but focus attention on what is n't on the list . ( If the list of declined offers is short , readers will be disappointed , and if it 's long , they 'll spend more time speculating about what 's missing than being impressed . ) The only time I 'd recommend highlighting this sort of information is if for some reason you had to turn down a vastly more prestigious offer than the one you accepted . For example , maybe you were offered a tenure-track job at a top department , but ended up working as an adjunct in the middle of nowhere so you could take care of a relative . You should then make sure everybody knows this the next time you are able to apply for jobs . However , you should be very careful when doing this , because if the prestige difference is n't absolutely universally acknowledged , then you run the risk of offending people who feel you are unfairly denigrating a perfectly fine career path .
If your manual is specific to your group 's environment ( software , lab , equipment , protocols , etc. ) , then I would consider posting such document on arXiv as not appropriate . A better place for such documents IMHO would be <URL> or <URL> . Both services allow artifacts to be not only citable , but also discoverable ( via DOI assignment ) . Version control is supported as well , but the advantage of Zenodo in this regard in comparison with figshare is Git and GitHub integration . If , on the other hand , the document is not specific to your group 's or other particular environment ( or , perhaps , you want to share this document as a model of how such documents should be structured , presented and what content should they contain ) , then I agree with other answers in that it is totally appropriate to post such document on arXiv .
Your professional title is Ph.D. student , or doctoral student , or just student .
You can list on your CV whatever you think is useful information for the reader . In your case , whether something is useful depends on what your position in life is . If you 're a full professor with a long history of funded research , what you describe is likely not useful to list on a CV . If you 're a graduate student with an otherwise relatively short CV , then that 's a different story . I would suggest wording such as Co-authored the proposal for grant XY-1234-5678 ( PI : Professor Z ) . Now , whether an entry such as this has any impact is a different issue , but it is certainly not going to hurt .
At many ( most ? all ? ) universities , a committee is required to have at least one professor from outside the department ( other than the chair , if the chair holds a joint position ) . Other requirements are to have at least one professor at rank higher or equal to the rank of the chair ( the advisor ) .
Well , it 's much better to have a part-time research position than no research position -- or more accurately , it 's much better to be doing some research than no research . I assume from your question you are either looking for a tenure-track/permanent faculty position at a research school or a research-oriented postdoc . If you want me to assess your chance of success , I ca n't accurately do that without knowing a lot about your situation -- in most areas I know of , the job market is n't great now , but certainly some fields/geographic regions/types of positions are less competitive than others . Basically , for a research-oriented position , you want to convince the people in charge of hiring that you 're going to do great research and contribute a lot to the research group you 're trying to be a part of . Generally this is easier the more research you 've done . However , if the amount and quality of research you 've done is impressive for someone doing other work part-time , that will probably taken into account -- which is maybe what you were really asking about . For instance , if two candidates have comparable research and one had a heaving teaching load at the time and one had a light load , the one with the higher teaching load looks more impressive . But if your research output is considerably less than the competition , it 's harder but not impossible to be viewed as a top candidate . Here outstanding references can help make up for this . Also , this is probably not a much of an issue if you are looking for postdoc positions .
end question
start question
Phd Decision Date Gaps ?
Most graduate schools in the U.S. follow a policy that accepted candidates are not required to make a decision until a set date agreed upon by the schools ( April 15th , I believe ) . This means you can ( and should ) take as much time to make your decision as you need . It sounds like you do need to make your decision earlier than that deadline ( but it might be worth finding out if the other schools do follow that policy and simply asked you to make a decision earlier ) , so contacting the other schools is probably a good idea . Remember , however , you are making a decision that will at the very least directly affect the next four to six years of your life , who you work and collaborate with , future contacts , where you live , and what your future employment prospects are ! So , I 'll reiterate : take the time you need , and get as much information as you can if you are up against a hard deadline .
If you have an otherwise excellent application , then withdrawing from a single course is unlikely to make much of a difference , especially a course in another field . For example , if you get A 's in four graduate math classes and drop a physics class in the same semester , I doubt any math graduate school will care . It could look a little strange if the dropped course were on your proposed specialty ( so people would think you 'd be particularly enthusiastic about it ) , but even that would n't be a disaster . If you are n't taking many courses and are getting worrisome grades in the others , then a W may look like you 're narrowly avoiding an even worse grade , but in that case your application already has problems aside from the W. Overall , the way I 'd look at it is that the W might intensify other weaknesses in your application , but is n't likely to be a big obstacle in isolation .
This may depend to some extent on hiring norms in your field/country . I would assume that if they are interviewing people in July , it is because they really need someone to start teaching in the fall . ( Otherwise they would wait another year and hire for next fall , when there would be more candidates available ; I would assume that by this time of year , many people are off the market . ) As such , I would n't think they 'd be likely to go for a deferred start date , or a complete release from fall teaching . A modest teaching reduction is conceivable ; you may be able to tell during the interview whether this would seem to be in line with their needs ( e.g. if there is one particular class that they really need someone to teach ) . The size of the department may also give some indication - a large department is more likely to have some flexibility than a small one . You might be able to negotiate for classes that require less advance preparation ( e.g. introductory courses instead of advanced ) . You might also be able to get more money for relocation , on the grounds that you 're moving on short notice . But my gut feeling is that you should be prepared to show up and start teaching in September .
Ultimately , the answer depends upon what admissions system a department uses . If you need to obtain admission to a group at the same time as ( or instead of ) the department as a whole , then it is of course absolutely critical that you make contacts ahead of time ! In general , I 'd even start contacting people well before the time of application . However , make sure that your contact is substantial . When it becomes time to apply , you will have a better shot . In many departments , you apply for admission to the department as a whole . After your admission , you select an advisor to work for . In such cases , it 's not really critical for you to have a direct contact within the department , since it 's not necessarily a given that the professor you want to work for sits on the admissions committee . In such cases , you 'll have an indirect connection at best . That said , it 's still a good idea to have a contact in a department during the admissions process . You do n't lose anything by it -- unless the professor has a bad reputation amongst his colleagues ( and then you might not want to work for him or her , anyways ! ) . By the way , I would caution strongly against going to such a school if there 's only one professor at the department you 'd be interested in working for . You 're taking a very large risk under such circumstances . Now to answer some of the other issues raised . Email or other forms of contact . Face-to-face or phone interactions rank above email interactions . There 's no doubt about that . However , an email interaction -- if actually substantial -- can also be viable . However , a quick emil telling someone you 're applying and interested in working for them wo n't really get you anywhere . Number of people to contact . There is of course no limit to the number of potential advisors you can contact . To some extent , they 're competing for you just as much as you 're competing for them ! Can I apply on credentials alone ? At most top departments ( where application is done at the department level ) , I think it 's entirely possible to apply on credentials and recommendations alone . Having the contacts can obviously help , but not having it wo n't ruin your chances for admissions , either .
In another answer , Zach H said that notifications for 2014 went out on January 14th . In 2015 , the date was January 26 . In general , the notifications are sent out a week or so before the coordinated postdoc deadline , the day before which most research universities agree not to require a decision on postdoc offers . <URL> This deadline changes from year to year , but it is always toward the end of January/beginning of February . The idea is that people should have an opportunity to find out whether they 've received the NSF before making any other decisions on postdoc offers , and if they were not one of the lucky few getting the NSF , then they should have at least a week to mull over their decision .
At least in the US , a Ph.D committee will have 4-5 members , and there are rules about the composition of the committee ( there might need to be at least one person from an external institution , and at least one person from a different department , or variations thereof ) . The committee 's formal job is to assess the Ph.D student 's dissertation proposal , determine that the work being proposed is sufficient for a dissertation , and then evaluate the final dissertation defense and decide whether to grant the student a Ph.D or not . Informally , a Ph.D committee provides a set of resources/expertise for the student to tap into for advice , research directions and even contacts for future work ( yes , there 's life after a Ph.D :) ) . There 's <URL> on how to choose your committee .
It is absolutely fine to contact current PhD students of programs and departments that you are interested in . On an average , I get about 1 email of this sort everyday and I make my best effort to reply intelligently . Keep in mind though that many PhD students will simply not reply to your email . Sometimes folks are inundated by too many emails and commitments to respond to any additional emails and sometimes people just have bad emailing tendencies in general .
Most graduate schools in the U.S. follow a policy that accepted candidates are not required to make a decision until a set date agreed upon by the schools ( April 15th , I believe ) . This means you can ( and should ) take as much time to make your decision as you need . It sounds like you do need to make your decision earlier than that deadline ( but it might be worth finding out if the other schools do follow that policy and simply asked you to make a decision earlier ) , so contacting the other schools is probably a good idea . Remember , however , you are making a decision that will at the very least directly affect the next four to six years of your life , who you work and collaborate with , future contacts , where you live , and what your future employment prospects are ! So , I 'll reiterate : take the time you need , and get as much information as you can if you are up against a hard deadline .
The editor certainly has the power to reject an article without having it reviewed . If they ca n't find a suitable reviewer , this is probably what would happen , unfortunately for you . In some cases the editor might have the authority to accept it without an outside review , but this would depend on the policies of the specific journal . Anyway , if they were planning to do this , they probably would have already done it .
Typically at larger " more prestigious " institutions , Professors must have their PhD to teach . It has been my experience that some smaller institutions will allow MS holders to teach undergraduate students - but your mileage may vary . As an example , a friend of mine has currently taken over a Computer Science department at a small institution and only has his Masters . While they would prefer a PhD holder , they can not find one to take the job . So , technically , yes - it is possible . Although you may not find yourself at a top-level institution .
There 's nothing on your CV that needs to indicate exactly how you were supported during your Ph.D. . In fact , if you were self-funded , and managed to get an occasional fellowship or other form of support , that 's a plus ! All a recruiting committee should ( and does ) care about post-PhD is the quality of your work ( for faculty positions there are additional issues ) . No one cares about how you were paid to do that work .
I ca n't speak for purest math , but many parts of computer science overlap so I think there may be some similarity ... If you know that you want a Ph.D. and are able to get into a good Ph.D. program straight out of undergraduate , more power to you : this is a fine path to go on . This may not , however , be possible or desirable for a number of reasons . Some examples of good reasons to get a Master 's at one institution before switching to another : You might not get into grad school on the first try , and a Master 's program is a good place to progress academically while you prepare to try again ( this was one of my reasons ) The Master 's is a natural break-point for transferring to a program that is stronger or a better fit . Non-academic reasons , such as family issues , following a partner , visa problems , etc. .
The LaTex source code contains the command , which inserts the current date at the time of compilation . That is , the PDF is probably last regenerated in 2013 . The arXiv submission history gives a more reliable date .
If there is a gap in your knowledge , and there is a course being offered that is a good fit for you , you could either enroll in the course or audit the course . One course per semester maximum , please , so that it is clear where your priorities are . One PhD is enough . Math and computer science are close enough . Yes , your self-confidence will grow as you build up a publication record . Congrats on getting the job !
I would say publications dont matter to start with a PhD , in general . Having them might help in reducing length of your PhD . A good thing to have is liking for one area in CS , and good knowledge in that area atleast . e.g. systems or security or algorithms or formal verification or databases or distributed systems etc. . Later when you join for the PhD program , you will do courses and talk with people to get an understanding on what is a good research problem etc. .
It varies greatly . There are the fixed deadline places , for which there are deadlines starting from Nov 15 or thereabouts , all the way upto Jan 15 . There are also places with rolling deadlines , where it 's better to apply early . In general , you should have your materials ready to go in the beginning/middle of November and that should take care of most deadlines .
I do n't think what you 're describing is all that common , and I 've never heard of any sort of systematic program , but it does happen . I ended up spending two months abroad during grad school to participate in a once off trimester program in my area of specialty . There were n't any standard arrangements in place , though : my home university ( very generously ) moved things around so I could do it . I think I 've heard of other cases , all similarly involving unique circumstances like faculty moving around or particular personal connections .
You should use the date conferred . Universities will have an official date where all degrees for the term are conferred on everyone . This is usually not the same date as the graduation ceremony as there can be multiple graduation ceremonies across multiple days , but trying to keep track of all of them would be confusing . It 's much simpler to just pick one day after all the ceremonies and say all degrees are official as of that date . That being said , I 've never heard of an employer ( or anyone ) who really cares about the particular date as long as it 's clear that you 've already met all of the requirements of graduation .
I 'm in a CS department at a mid-ranked school in the US , and have reviewed applications for Ph.D programs in CS for the last 6 years . I did n't compile detailed numbers , but my sense is that the number of candidates with " actual " publications ( as opposed to fluff pubs ) is of the order of 5 % . I suspect this number is higher for the top-ranked school .
While it may be common for universities in the UK to offer such a degree , I 'm not sure it 's at all common to obtain a PhD in this way ( i.e. ' by published works ' ) . I think it is mainly aimed at people who have been involved in research for some time ( especially as university staff members ) without a PhD , but who have published material equivalent to a PhD thesis . ( As you will have read , for the Warwick program one must be either a member of staff at Warwick or have graduated with a Bachelor 's degree or equivalent at least seven years ago . ) Generally someone applying for such a program would have already published the works they are planning to submit , and therefore as you say the program will consist primarily of preparing for the oral examination ( often called ' viva ' in the UK ) . Although you probably have to prepare some kind of extra document as well ( in the Oxford Brookes program this is a ' critical appraisal ' of the works being presented ) . This is , as Pieter has already explained , very different from either a habilitation ( which is at a higher level than PhD ) or an honorary PhD ( which in general can honour any kind of accomplishment and does n't require the holder to have done research at PhD level or indeed to have a university education at all ) .
end question
start question
How to make a connection with academics on Linkedin that they would accept ?
I consider LinkedIn to be pretty low-stakes interaction , so I merely want to avoid being linked to spammers and frauds . My own policy , then , is that I will accept LinkedIn invitations from anybody who I actually know who they are , either by a ) having had a non-trivial interaction with them ( including by phone or electronically ) or b ) indirect interactions such as reading their papers . Other people may have more stringent policies , but in my opinion , it 's reasonable to request a connection with anybody you have a relationship with : the worst that will happen is that they will ignore it .
I can address questions 1 and 2 ( although for 3 , all I know is that my friends say it is very different ) . When you are negotiating over salary , your leverage is determined by the best alternative you have . To keep from losing you to another employer , your job must offer a better combination of pay and benefits than anyone else ( including benefits like job security , having interesting colleagues and students , having flexible hours and the ability to choose your own projects , etc. ) . People in the humanities have very little leverage except from other academic jobs . Mathematicans have more , because there are applications in industry or government , so they get paid somewhat more , but this leverage is limited by the fact that many mathematicians do n't want non-academic jobs . Computer scientists have a lot of leverage , and business school faculty have even more . So basically it comes down to this . Business school faculty often have expertise that is in high demand outside academia and could earn them a lot of money , and there 's at least a stereotype that they care more about monetary compensation than some professors do ( which makes sense , given their interest in business ) . This means that to attract excellent faculty , business schools have to pay enough that job applicants would rather work there than in the business world . In principle , this is no different from other departments : literature faculty also have to be paid enough that they do n't leave for the business world . It 's just a question of how much that is . This really depends on the subfield . Business school faculty are certainly more likely to do outside consulting than scientists are , but there are no universal rules ( some business school professors do none at all , and some scientists run their own companies ) . Occasionally , a company will sponsor a university program according to some negotiated agreement , but consulting generally does not involve a pay-sharing deal . Instead , the faculty member simply consults part-time for the company , without using university resources , and is paid directly by the company . In the US , universities typically allow a certain amount of time to be spent on outside consulting , for example one day per week , with no special approval needed .
At least in mathematics ( and presumably in other fields , although I have no direct experience with that ) , they are evaluated in the same pool as all the other proposals . In practice , there seem to be two key differences in how they are treated : Panel members can be a little more forgiving for certain aspects of RUI proposals . For example , if the PI publishes excellent papers but not very many of them , then this low publication rate would probably be considered a bigger drawback in a non-RUI proposal . The NSF may give some degree of preference to a few RUI proposals , as described below . The review panel classifies proposals into three categories : roughly 10 % that are highly recommended for funding , 30-40 % that are recommended for funding , and 50-60 % that are not . The available funding is never sufficient to cover all the proposals recommended for funding , so further decisions need to be made after the panel . The ones not recommended for funding are automatically eliminated , and the ones highly recommended for funding are more or less guaranteed to be funded . The ones in the middle are ranked in order by the panel , but the NSF is not required to follow this ranking . They largely follow it , but they adjust it based on their own criteria ( for example , balance of fields , geographical diversity , etc. ) . My understanding is that if no RUI proposal in a given panel would otherwise be funded , then the highest-ranked RUI proposal may be bumped up in the rankings . However , this is not guaranteed , and it depends on having a high enough ranking from the panel . The program officers may also compare how panels in different areas ranked their RUI proposals , to see which ones seem most worthy of funding . However , there is no RUI-only panel .
In your example , you are citing the chapter author 's work , not the work of the compiler/editor of the book as a whole . According to the APA Publication Manual , use the following reference format for this situation . Author , A.A. ( 1967 ) Title of chapter or entry . In A. Editor &amp; B. Editor ( Eds . ) , Title of book ( pp . xxx-xxx ) . Location : Publisher Of course , your intext citation would reference the chapter author too , not the book author/editor . The same general format holds for other reference styles as well .
I 'm sure you 'll find people who are " retired " ( from administrative duties , from chasing the next funding proposal ) and still are hard at work , while others just want to stay at home and look at the lake in front of the window . If one of them would take you on as mentoree ( made up word , I know ) is anybody 's guess . Perhaps they retired in part to be free of having to deal with pesky students . Maybe you are so outstanding that you lure the hermit back into active work .
In regard to your question 's topic , at least two relevant terms come to mind : <URL> and <URL> . Once we establish the right terminology , it is not too difficult to find information that you 're looking for . In particular , <URL> and <URL> seem to be rather comprehensive ( you will have to filter the information to select the modern-era academics without degrees ) .
The editor certainly has the power to reject an article without having it reviewed . If they ca n't find a suitable reviewer , this is probably what would happen , unfortunately for you . In some cases the editor might have the authority to accept it without an outside review , but this would depend on the policies of the specific journal . Anyway , if they were planning to do this , they probably would have already done it .
I had a situation like this come up once , where one person did an extensive analysis that turned out not to be particularly useful , so there was no point in including any details of it in the paper . However , we did feel that having the analysis done did lead ( indirectly ) to a better understanding of what we were studying . Moreover , we also felt that the person who did the analysis deserved some measure of credit in the final paper . So we put a very short mention ( one to three sentences ) in the manuscript , just stating that we had done the analysis , but that it had not led to any useful conclusions , for such-and-such reasons . Since the paper included this , it was unquestionably appropriate to include the person who had done the bulk of that analysis as an author . I would suggest that you could do something similar , so your colleague could unambiguously be considered an author .
I do n't know what the purpose of your writing is , so the answer really depends on that . It sounds like you 're writing some kind of review of prior work ( either as a survey or as part of a paper ) ? In that case , the goal here is not to regurgitate ( in your words or via paraphrase ) what others say . Rather , you should be reading what they say and thinking about it ( and seeing if you 're convinced by it ) . Only after that should you even attempt to describe the work . And when you do so , put all reference material away . If you ca n't describe someone else 's work without referring to it , then you do n't really understand it yet . In this way you 'll ensure that you use your own ideas/thoughts to express what 's gone before .
Since the supervisor got the grant , he is ultimately responsible to the funding agency for the research that was funded and for any results . So the postdoc should definitely talk to the supervisor . Actually , this would be a great opportunity for the supervisor to help the postdoc grow academically , since postdocs are of course expected to take on more responsibilities than Ph.D. students , and start making their own reputation in a field , not stay in the supervisor 's shadow . So the supervisor should certainly understand that the postdoc will start flexing his wings and be interested in other topics - it just needs to be commensurate with the goals that the supervisor got the money for . If , conversely , the postdoc got his own grant , he should first of all look through the paperwork he presumably got , signed and returned before the money started rolling in . It is quite possible that an expectation of the funding agency as to the amount of work the postdoc should be spending on this particular project is already somewhere in the paperwork . Of course , even in this case , it makes a lot of sense to discuss this with the supervisor , who presumably has a lot of experience in this field , and possibly with this particular funding agency .
This sort of thing only evolves as the product of your exhaustive reading , and discussions with your supervisors and peers . After that , at some point , your supervisor will say something like : " before you can really get into your research , just resolve this little thing - it should be fairly trivial . " That 's your thesis , right there .
I consider LinkedIn to be pretty low-stakes interaction , so I merely want to avoid being linked to spammers and frauds . My own policy , then , is that I will accept LinkedIn invitations from anybody who I actually know who they are , either by a ) having had a non-trivial interaction with them ( including by phone or electronically ) or b ) indirect interactions such as reading their papers . Other people may have more stringent policies , but in my opinion , it 's reasonable to request a connection with anybody you have a relationship with : the worst that will happen is that they will ignore it .
Usually this is shown in biology/biochemistry journals by a solid border around the cropped image . This is fine to do only if , like you say , you are not removing meaningful data or hiding potential confounding results . If in doubt , ask your advisor .
I think you should be honored and flattered by your professor 's suggestion . He/she thinks you deserve a larger share of the credit for the paper and is trying to help you get that credit . Your concern about the CV/publication list is somewhat valid , but there is a simple way to address that issue . In your publication list , put a small asterisk next to the paper in question , accompanied by a footnote saying : " For this publication my coauthors agreed to name me first author as credit for my contributions . In all other publications my name appears in alphabetical order , as is the custom in my discipline and indicating roughly equal contributions from all coauthors . " Of course , adding such a footnote is a bit tedious and awkward , and the benefit you will get from being first author may not be very large . Perhaps you may conclude that it 's not worth the hassle . Or you may feel it could distract people looking at your CV from other things about you that you feel are more important . Or you may think this is just too trivial an issue to care about . All of those would be completely reasonable reasons not to accept the offer . But there would certainly be nothing wrong with accepting it .
What helps , I think , is that " research " is not a single thing but a complex of many different activities . If I am feeling burned out on paper-writing , perhaps I find my joy in coding or mathematics or sketching new project ideas . Likewise when I am happy about papers but feeling burned out on something else . At a larger scale , even a " unified " line of research has many distinct facets that may feel quite different when one is actually closely engaged with it . Thus , I see no difficulty in the idea of remaining interested and engaged for a long period of time . I have been so for nearly 20 years ( counting undergraduate research work as well ) and I see no reason to expect my interest to fail any time soon . Funding , of course , is an entirely different story .
Remember the guiding principle of maximum ease in following a reference . If you do n't know which author , cite primarily to the book . From " Book title " , by x , y , and z In fact , even if there is only one author , it is good to cite the book .
I am going to answer based on an implicit assumption I feel much of your question hinges on : One of the problems is , they did not mention that part in the abstract , therefore I have accepted . This sounds like had you known that their work is so similar to yours , you would have rejected the review . However , I would argue that that can not possibly be in the interest of the review system . Yes , you could argue for a conflict of interest , but it is the conflict of interest that exists generally , based on the simple fact that other people beside you do research in the same or similar topics as you . It is not a conflict of interest on a personal level ( e.g. you being part of the team whose paper is being reviewed ) . Instead , it is a conflict of interest that , in theory , should quite often exist in the review process - for reviews to be meaningful , reviewers need to be familiar with the topic to some extent , and thus , a similarity of the research topics between authors and reviewers is hardly avoidable . I see your concerns about what the authors of the paper under review might be thinking , though you might have to brush them aside for the time being . However , what you can do is draw the benefit from being the reviewer and thus having early access to a manuscript : While your method may be very similar , it is most probably not exactly the same . When describing your method , try and insert a few sentences that focus particularly on a few aspects that you do differently from them . For future publications you might write on similar topics , keep in mind that there may be a similar publication by those authors around that you can cite . This has advantages for both sides : You increase the chances to include a relevant citation that you might otherwise miss ( and thus the authors ' chances of being cited by you are increased ) . Even though you can not yet cite the work of the other authors , your clear description of some different aspects serves as a way to " preemptively " establish the differences between your work and theirs . If they happen to publish a revised version of their paper after your work has appeared , you have already provided them with quite a straightforward foundation for describing their differences to your work . In the comments , the concern has been voiced that even without the assumption of plagiarism , the authors of the other paper might still feel by rejecting their work , you intentionally stalled their progress for long enough so you could publish your own very similar work first , and now it 's their problem to care about the prior art . However , there are some aspects of good scientific practice that speak against that line of reasoning : You do not provide an unjustified judgement , you provide a review . If you choose to reject the paper , you have the opportunity to describe objectively and in detail why you deem the work in its current state not ready for publication . The other authors have not yet published their work in a properly citeable fashion , but that still just means you have plausible deniability on your side when you are asked whether you knew about the other work . Scientific integrity still demands that you consider the existing prior work , published or not , which is exactly what you are doing by specifically describing some aspects that you do differently than the reviewed paper , as described above .
It is up to the editor whether to accept or reject . The reviewers only make recommendations . Even if the reviewers give positive recommendations , the editor can decide to reject a paper . If both reviewers give negative recommendations , it is much less likely for the editor to accept a paper . If there is a mix of opinions the editor has to make a judgment , subject to whatever internal procedures the journal has in place . It seems like , this time , the decision was favorable for you .
Most venues forbid simultaneous submissions , or overlapping submissions . For instance , in the call for papers of <URL> : Submitted papers must not substantially overlap papers that have been published or that are simultaneously submitted to a journal , conference or workshop . Simultaneous submission of the same work is not allowed . Note that submitted papers can not be withdrawn from the process after the first phase reviews are received by authors . So , in order to answer your question , the main problem is determining the overlap between PA and PB . If it 's substantial ( only some elements of style change , minor comments ) , then it should be forbidden . On the other hand , if the papers are different enough ( for instance , PA presents a more theoretical approach and PB a more practical description , with a case study ) , then there is no problem . That being said , both papers must be self-contained , and can not rely on the acceptance of the other , unless they are both also published as technical reports ( or equivalent ) . To make things explicit , if I were a reviewer of a member of the PC , and if I were to think that the overlap between the two papers is substantial , I would recommend rejecting both .
PhD studentships are quite often advertised like " normal " jobs , i.e. on general job boards/recruting websites . If you have contacts , by all means use them . As for evaluating the candidates , similar guidelines as for evaluating applicants for any jobs apply . I do n't think there 's a one-fits-all answer . Note that the hiring process may also depend on what institution you 'd be working for . They might have an HR department that screens/selects the candidates .
end question
start question
Are there formal studies analyzing available test time versus performance ?
Several studies have examined the impact of extended test-taking time on performance at all academic grade levels . Many of these studies focus on individuals with learning disabilities , but generally include students without learning disabilities as a control group . I have summarized some studies here , and provided a list of additional studies which may be of interest . The studies indicate that other individual factors ( academic ability and skills , perception of time , and method of test administration ) may impact test performance in concert with or in addition with extended time . One study of learning disabled ( LD ) and non-learning disabled ( NLD ) college students being given a reading test that assessed vocabulary and comprehension assessed outcomes for those who received an extended test period of time and a half compared to the normal period ( Ofiesh , 2000 ) . Individuals with LD saw significant improvements in the extended time period compared to NLD students . Some NLD students did show improved scores in the extended period , but the difference was not significant . Similarly , in a study assessing the performance of elementary , middle , and high school students on the Stanford 10 achievement tests who received either the recommended amount of time or extra time , the authors concluded that NLD students exhibited no benefit or detriment with extended testing time ( Brooks , Case , &amp; Young , 2003 ) . This did not vary whether they received a few minutes up to double the recommended time . Another study of 6th grade students taking a standardized test found that NLD students did not see a significant increase in scores in an extended-time condition , but LD students did ( Huesman &amp; Frisbie , 2000 ) . However , NLD scores also varied based on instructions . When NLD students were given extra time , and told to take their time , their scores improved ; when given extra time but told to work " quickly " but to still do their best work , they did not significantly improve , possibly because they were placed into a mindset of being timed . Another study examined the impact of extended time ( 1.5 ) on both multiple choice and problem solving tests in three university courses , but found no improvements in performance ( Armitage , 1999 ) . However , in a study of prospective graduate students who took the GRE writing test , participants who were given 60 minutes performed better than those given only 40 minutes ( Powers &amp; Fowles , 1996 ) . A study of SAT performance for nearly 2,000 LD/ADHD or NLD high school students was examined for groups allowed standard time or 1.5 or 2 times the allotted time for verbal and math sections ( Mandibach , Bridgeman , Cahalan-Laitusis , &amp; Trapani , 2005 ) . They found that NLD medium - and high-ability students performed best in the 1.5 time condition , but low-ability examinees saw no benefit . Extra time affected math more than verbal performance . Strong conclusions about LD student performance were non-significant in part due to small sample sizes . The authors note that low-ability students may not benefit from extra time because they lack needed problem-solving skills , while medium-ability students may benefit because they are able to check their work . Less benefit was seen for high ability students who may not have needed the extra time . The authors also noted that for longer tests , breaking the material into sections and setting time limits per section seemed to benefit all students , rather than asking them to pace themselves across all material . One study found no direct effect of extended time on written essay quality for college students , but did find that student who were allowed to use a word processor wrote more than students who provided handwritten answers , and that typed ( but not hand written ) essays demonstrated a link between length and quality ( Lovett , Lewandowski , Berger , &amp; Gathje , 2010 ) . The authors propose it was not time that led to these improvements , but the flexibility to edit their answers when typed . A review of the evaluation of written exams cites several other studies regarding the impact of time on writing quality ( Cho , 2003 ) and may be of interest . A report by Tindal and Fuchs ( 2000 , pgs 26 -- 35 ) provides a concise summary of the literature of test extensions or untimed tests from kindergarten through post-secondary education , including specific summaries of each study found in their review . This might be a good place to start in terms of additional literature . Although most of the examples I described here found few effects for non-learning disabled students receiving extended time on tests , I 've also listed additional literature which may provide alternative results . Referenced studies : Armitage , C. ( 1999 ) . Extended time limits on university examinations ( Master 's thesis ) . Retrieved from : <URL> Brooks , T. E. , Case , B. J. , and Young , M. J. Pearson assessment report . ( 2003 ) . Timed versus untimed testing conditions and student performance . Pearson Education , Inc. . Retr
Of course , we do n't know what your university 's academic dishonesty rules say . But in most cases they are pretty broad , and there is probably a clause that could be interpreted to include your website , if your university 's authorities decide to do so . I think the odds are good that there will be at least one professor who is upset enough to push them to do something about it . They might just try to get you to take the site down , they might try something harsher . There 's no way to know . In general , I think most professors are aware that students may be informally sharing their exams with one another . For that reason , they usually change exams from term to term , and if they reuse questions , do so only after several years . However , some may be startled to see it done as systematically as you propose , and try to stop it . I am not a lawyer , nor do I know your local laws , but posting an exam on your website would probably violate the copyright of the professor who wrote it ( unless you have his or her permission ) . This would be another avenue someone could pursue if they wanted your website gone . Finally , professors could try to prevent their students from posting their exams on your website . For example , they might stop letting students keep their graded exams . Or , they could add a line to their syllabus that " you may not share your graded exams with anyone " , on penalty of failing the course or academic dishonesty sanctions . This could not only deprive your website of material , but also make it so that students ca n't even share their exams informally anymore , which I assume is contrary to your goals .
The answer is that in some fields ( La ) TeX dominate whereas in other fields ( La ) TeX is largely unknown . Obviously any field where equations are required is more likely to be using ( La ) TeX for writing and publishing . However , it is not uncommon that journals , or rather , type-setters of journals , use LaTeX for final production regardless of submitted format . The same applies to book publishers . But , the fact is that the use varies and one needs to check with the journal to which you wish to submit . The fact that you are not " allowed " to write your thesis with ( la ) TeX is perhaps because your advisor does not use it . I am an avid LaTeX user and am struggling to convince both colleagues and students in my department to at least try using it so I know how difficult it can be . In the end , I need to use both to be able to communicate with my colleagues and peers . So although I do not see why you should not set the thesis in ( La ) TeX in the end , you probably need to use word for the manuscript so that your advisor can provide input on files you supply . But , check how many journals actually use LaTeX in your field and strike up a discussion with your fellow students and your advisor . I think it is worthwhile to be fairly fluent in using many tools . Edit : I will just add that I was convinced by a friend to use TeX ( not LaTeX , it was a long time ago ) when I wrote my thesis ( a monograph at a US university ) while almost no-one in the department used TeX ; but then my advisor always provided feedback from double-spaced printouts which were platform independent . Those were the days .
Reviewing the literature relevant to a given field is a standard part of doing research , as this serves to put your work into the context of the larger discipline in which you are working . If there is an actual difference between the " literature survey " and the " literature review , " it 's that the latter can serve as a paper in and of itself , and is much more extensive than a literature survey , which is typically a major part of the introduction of a research paper . The literature review as a standalone article could be compared to a " curated " overview of the literature in the field -- who has done what , how do papers relate to one another , and what are the most important present and ( possibly ) future directions of work in such a field . Such papers can also be considerably longer than a traditional research paper , and some reviews might cite as many as a thousand references ! In comparison , the literature survey of a standard research article is usually much shorter ( 1-2 journal pages ) , and will not cite nearly as many papers ( anywhere from 10 to 100 , depending on the topic and the amount of relevant literature available ) .
In general , I would never include code in the " main " paper outside of computer science or applied mathematics . There are very few cases where listing code explicitly would actually improve the quality and readability of the paper . If it is necessary to include the code , I would do so as part of the " Supporting Information " which many journals allow you to include alongside the main publication . I would then describe the features of the code as words in the main text . Even in CS and math papers , I would still only put pseudocode in the main article , and would save any listings of actual code for the Supporting Information .
I would imagine this may vary from field to field , but in the biological sciences the caption text in journal publications is often verbose to the point of absurdity . That being said , I would simply use common sense ; If the description takes more than a paragraph , you should definitely " refer to text " . Generally speaking , the caption is simply a textual guide as to how to read the plot , with ( maybe ) a sentence drawing the reader 's attention to a particular feature of the plot . It should mostly describe the plot , and only sparingly discuss it .
In general , you 're in a very tough situation . Most of the " big name " fellowships are moving away from funding older students , on the relatively flimsy rationale that they 're making a bigger impact by funding less experienced students from the start of their program . There are a few programs that do support late-term graduate students ; these are typically known as dissertation fellowships . Examples include the <URL> , but these also have other restrictions associated with them ( for instance , a commitment to a teaching career ) . Similarly , the <URL> primarily supports environmental and energy-related research , while the <URL> is for African-American students in biomedical-related fields . So there are resources available , but they are certainly very limited in scope , and you 'll need to make sure you meet all of the qualification criteria . The other problem for you is that these fellowships are typically only one year in duration , so if , as you say , you are two years away from finishing , you will need to find some means to finance one year of study , either through TA 's or other sources of funding . In the meanwhile , you should talk with your advisor if there are other resources within the group to help you -- at least partially .
Several studies have examined the impact of extended test-taking time on performance at all academic grade levels . Many of these studies focus on individuals with learning disabilities , but generally include students without learning disabilities as a control group . I have summarized some studies here , and provided a list of additional studies which may be of interest . The studies indicate that other individual factors ( academic ability and skills , perception of time , and method of test administration ) may impact test performance in concert with or in addition with extended time . One study of learning disabled ( LD ) and non-learning disabled ( NLD ) college students being given a reading test that assessed vocabulary and comprehension assessed outcomes for those who received an extended test period of time and a half compared to the normal period ( Ofiesh , 2000 ) . Individuals with LD saw significant improvements in the extended time period compared to NLD students . Some NLD students did show improved scores in the extended period , but the difference was not significant . Similarly , in a study assessing the performance of elementary , middle , and high school students on the Stanford 10 achievement tests who received either the recommended amount of time or extra time , the authors concluded that NLD students exhibited no benefit or detriment with extended testing time ( Brooks , Case , &amp; Young , 2003 ) . This did not vary whether they received a few minutes up to double the recommended time . Another study of 6th grade students taking a standardized test found that NLD students did not see a significant increase in scores in an extended-time condition , but LD students did ( Huesman &amp; Frisbie , 2000 ) . However , NLD scores also varied based on instructions . When NLD students were given extra time , and told to take their time , their scores improved ; when given extra time but told to work " quickly " but to still do their best work , they did not significantly improve , possibly because they were placed into a mindset of being timed . Another study examined the impact of extended time ( 1.5 ) on both multiple choice and problem solving tests in three university courses , but found no improvements in performance ( Armitage , 1999 ) . However , in a study of prospective graduate students who took the GRE writing test , participants who were given 60 minutes performed better than those given only 40 minutes ( Powers &amp; Fowles , 1996 ) . A study of SAT performance for nearly 2,000 LD/ADHD or NLD high school students was examined for groups allowed standard time or 1.5 or 2 times the allotted time for verbal and math sections ( Mandibach , Bridgeman , Cahalan-Laitusis , &amp; Trapani , 2005 ) . They found that NLD medium - and high-ability students performed best in the 1.5 time condition , but low-ability examinees saw no benefit . Extra time affected math more than verbal performance . Strong conclusions about LD student performance were non-significant in part due to small sample sizes . The authors note that low-ability students may not benefit from extra time because they lack needed problem-solving skills , while medium-ability students may benefit because they are able to check their work . Less benefit was seen for high ability students who may not have needed the extra time . The authors also noted that for longer tests , breaking the material into sections and setting time limits per section seemed to benefit all students , rather than asking them to pace themselves across all material . One study found no direct effect of extended time on written essay quality for college students , but did find that student who were allowed to use a word processor wrote more than students who provided handwritten answers , and that typed ( but not hand written ) essays demonstrated a link between length and quality ( Lovett , Lewandowski , Berger , &amp; Gathje , 2010 ) . The authors propose it was not time that led to these improvements , but the flexibility to edit their answers when typed . A review of the evaluation of written exams cites several other studies regarding the impact of time on writing quality ( Cho , 2003 ) and may be of interest . A report by Tindal and Fuchs ( 2000 , pgs 26 -- 35 ) provides a concise summary of the literature of test extensions or untimed tests from kindergarten through post-secondary education , including specific summaries of each study found in their review . This might be a good place to start in terms of additional literature . Although most of the examples I described here found few effects for non-learning disabled students receiving extended time on tests , I 've also listed additional literature which may provide alternative results . Referenced studies : Armitage , C. ( 1999 ) . Extended time limits on university examinations ( Master 's thesis ) . Retrieved from : <URL> Brooks , T. E. , Case , B. J. , and Young , M. J. Pearson assessment report . ( 2003 ) . Timed versus untimed testing conditions and student performance . Pearson Education , Inc. . Retr
Some of the obvious ones : The <URL> initiative wants to assign unique identifiers to all " creators " . ( They take authors in the broad sense of individuals generating copyrightable content or something like that , since they include musicians and others . ) That is about as " general " as you can want . If you want to restrict to Academia , the <URL> is not specifically field-specific , though it is limited to fields which have an arXiv presence . Since you did n't specify what is required of a " researcher digital identification service " , social networks such as Academia.edu and ResearchGate which you <URL> can also serve the purpose of disambiguation of publishing records . Certain countries maintain their own databases of researchers residing there . The most comprehensive and successful seems to be that of <URL> . The American Mathematical Society has recently starting maintaining <URL> as part of their MathSciNet service ( I know that the question asked for " not field-specific " ; I 'll weasel and say that the AMS profiles include also those working in related sciences to mathematics , such as physicists and computer scientists , and some engineers . ) For a list of some of the other services , the <URL> has a slightly out-dated list of such services . Note however some of the items listed there have stalled and shutdown since the last edit .
Graduate school is an experience and like any other experience , it differs for different people . You may or may not let your work overwhelm you . That is entirely your choice unless you have to catch up with your cohort . <URL> is one of the most important skills to learn in graduate school and as I understand , it carries over to real life significantly later on . Therefore , specifically in response to your question , your current experience is typical for certain graduate students but not all graduate students .
This is the typical situation normal but all fouled up ( <URL> ) of job searches in the United States . Often you are lucky to get a two line e-mail or a postcard at the negative conclusion of a search . In the case of Chair searches , though , the fouled-up nature is usually much worse . I 'm assuming this is Chair-as-in-Head-of-a-Department rather than a Named-Chair-as-in-Benefactor-Sponsored senior position . Usually universities search for external Chairs when there are problems with the existing senior faculty that make it impossible for a Chair to arise from within the department . This means that search will be similarly confused , with possible internal conflicts in the department as well as external interventions from the Provost 's office . Because of these competing interests , external Chair searches can take even longer than the usual search . I would write to the Search Chair and ask what the status of the search is . Postscript : The OP has clarified that this is a search for a named chair . These tend to go smoothly as the institution already has the money vested by the benefactor , who usually wants to see the position filled quickly ( and is likely to give again if pleased by the results ) and often puts enough parameters on the position ( theoretical field , area of study ) that political factions within the department ca n't mess it up too much . So whatever is going on in the OP 's situation seems strange and rather unique .
I hope you checked with the library of your institution , since these are the people who are typically involved in that sort of things . There are softwares to create institution repository of articles ( often pre-prints ) to allow free access and comply with most government funding regulation . There are probably many options , but one of these softwares is called <URL> and is used by institutions like the CERN in Geneva . This system allows researchers to have an up-to-date , automatically populated publication list with links to the downloadable documents , enables keyword search , run stats , etc. . It is useful as well if you are writing an annual report of your group/department , etc. .
This answer is from computer science rather than the social sciences . However , I am not sure whether the difference matters much in this context . Generally , project web sites are done for the following reasons : Provide a central entry point for a given research endeavour that one can point interested people to ( e.g. , at conferences ) . Many projects lead to dozens and dozens of small and large publications distributed over many project partners , so the website of the project collects and often summarizes the main outcomes in a way that is easier to digest . Advertise the project . It is hard for a project to be successful if nobody knows that the project exists . A website is an easy means to give a " face " to an otherwise pretty amorphous construct . In some cases , websites have an internal , password-protected area , which the project partners use to exchange documents , discuss in forums , etc. . So the website if also a sort of collaboration tool for project partners . Last but unfortunately not least , project website are often simply a deliverable that the funding agencies expect / require , so they need to be done no matter if it having one serves any concrete goal outside of its mere existence . That being said , there are of course plenty of websites that are simply useless . The thing is , it is hard to say in advance whether a website will actually be useful for a specific project or not . You may often think in the beginning of the project that you will need a website e.g. , as a discussion and dissemination platform , but then nobody ends up using it and it slides into general uselessness . To answer your questions : Are they an effective means to increase visibility of projects ? Maybe , but only if they are very well done and linked in a highly visible way . I would say most websites are not particularly effective in terms of visibility , even though this is typically one of the main goals . Under which circumstances does it make sense to set up such a website ? I will always set up at least a rudimentary website . Doing a simple website is close to no effort , and having one ( even a simple one ) is usually better than having none at all . What makes such a website a good website ? This is hard to answer without knowing what specifically the website should do for a project . I assume you mean primarily as a dissemination tool - in that context , what you really need is high-quality content ( which is targeted at whatever your audience is ) , fresh content ( try to have a regular schedule , e.g. , a monthly research blog ) , personal touch ( photos from meetings , opinion pieces , ... ) , highly visible linking ( the way how Google and other search engines work is that they assume that website linked from important websites are also important , so you need to get your website linked from other highly ranked sites , so as to improve your page rank ) , and pleasing visuals ( make sure that your website is technically up to date ) .
When I read this question , I immediately thought of <URL> In it , Peter Norvig , who taught a huge online course on AI , shares what he learned about teaching to a large virtual audience . His main points : Mimic a one-on-one teaching style by positioning the camera overhead as you write and speaking as if it is a single student . Alternately , use a livescribe pen ( I 've had experience with this for a math class ; loved it ) Make short , < 10 minute videos to retain attention Ask questions to check understanding ( they will pause + answer ) and then go over them Have due dates for watching the videos ; students need motivation to watch them in a timely manner Encourage online forums because peers are great tutors they " remember what it 's like to not understand "
I work in CS and know of no issues with distributing work to a small group of people . I know a number of researchers ( myself included ) who share their work with colleagues before and after submission . Sometimes it 's to gather feedback , sometimes because a friend is curious about your work or working on something similar . It 's generally understood that the research will not be distributed further without the authors ' permission .
If you are going to cite your scores , then you should check to see if there is a reporting mechanism from ETS that will allow you to send official copies of the scores to the recipients . For instance , NSF had a " college code " so that you could send a report directly to them . Other fellowships may be similar . One caveat that should be mentioned : if a university or fellowship specifically instructs you not to send something , do n't send it . I know that some schools do not want and will not accept additional letters of reference , award citations , publications , and so on . If this is the case for the specific application you 're completing , then you 'll want to find some other way to provide the information . This might be in the form of a mention in one of your essays ( if appropriate ! ) , or in a " supporting information " box in the application .
What you describe is , in my opinion , horribly unethical ! Yes , past performance is often a predictor of present performance , but there are so many other factors involved as well . What if a student did poorly before because of any number of reasons , but have since stepped up their work , caught up , and really mastered the material ? Or what if the student has been focusing heavily on this subject and has consequently fared more poorly in another subject ? It is manifestly stupid and counter to the entire notion of education to ignore good work by a student in one location simply because the student did bad work in another course or another time . Ethical violations are a different matter -- it is reasonable to be suspicious of a student with a history of cheating -- but grading a student poorly for having the audacity to exceed expectations is a rank betrayal of the most basic responsibilities of an educator .
In the United States there 's no formal pre-nominal title held by individuals holding a Master 's degree that I know of , so it 's very unlike Dr. Xxxx that one holding a Ph.D. , etc. might be addressed . In text , you would address such a person with a post-nominal suffix like M.A. , MBA , etc. . I 'm sure the logic is different among specific types of degree , where Esq. for Esquire is a post-nominal suffix for those in the legal profession in the US . To give you an example , though : If I hold an M.Sc. , you might refer to me as " Kendall , M.Sc . " if you wanted to address me in an email or letter , but I would realistically expect Mr. Kendall or what have you face-to-face . I should also add that courtesy titles like Esq. or Mr. , and academic titles do n't get used at the same time . Kendall , Esq. . M.Sc . would be wrong , as would Mr. Kendall , M.Sc . !
I am a scientist working in a company and frequently collaborating with university academics . There is no difference between the papers we write . People at companies are more likely to write more applied papers , and people at universities are more likely to write more theoretical papers , but the distributions are highly overlapping .
Just about every possibility exists somewhere in the United States . There is no one answer . Some colleges or universities do not require any type of thesis for an undergraduate degree . Others may require students in an honors program only to complete a thesis or project . Yet others may require all students to complete a thesis or project for an undergraduate degree . At the graduate level , there are research master 's degrees and non-thesis/course-only master 's degrees . The latter may still have a project or paper . A research master 's degree is usually for those who are going on to a Ph.D. .
end question
start question
How important is the prestige of recommendation letter writers ?
I am assuming the two choices are at the same institution . If they are not , choose the higher-ranked institution ( if there is a clear winner ) , because moving forward , name DOES matter ) . That said : You have two currently incompatible , yet not mutually-exclusive motivations : a ) work with someone who is well known in the field b ) work with someone who has closely aligned research interests and , you are concerned about the letter of recommendation , to come later . the correct choice is B . You should work with the faculty member whose research interests closely match yours . Any other decision is to enter into a failing marriage . It is important that you can be excited about what you are doing , and your excitement will in turn excite your mentor , which will pay dividends . THAT SAID , names do matter . If the faculty that matches your interests is junior , you will have to plan ahead to ensure that in addition to his/her glowing recommendation , you also get a letter from the more senior colleague . This is n't impossible , or even difficult . If you are starting grad school , just be open and honest about it . Engage him/her . Go to their lab meetings . Later , when you do your prelim or comp exams , you can invite that person to be on your committee . You 'll get both of best worlds : an advisor that shares your passion and a letter from a big wig . You have to love what you 're doing .
From a general survey of style books , yes , at least the first alphabet should be capitalized : American Medical Association Manual of Style : Title format ( e.g. Average Consumption Index , % ) Chicago Manual of Style : Sentence format ( e.g. Average consumption index , % ) Scientific Style and Format ( Cambridge ) : Sentence format An easy way to see this : axis labels are akin to the row and column titles in a table . If those titles are generally capitalized ( which is the norm ) , then the axis title should also follow . So , I 'd recommend at least follow the sentence style capitalization rule . This is not to say lower case titles are absolutely wrong , but I am sure they will raise more eyebrows in a bad way .
If the written question above is a genuine reflection of your English spelling and grammar abilities , then I strongly suggest you seek professional services to assist if you are in any way concerned about your abilities having an adverse impact on your application . This application is clearly a very important step in determining your future , and if it is so important and you have concerns , it is not worth leaving it to chance . If you have no suitable friends , use a professional service . Plenty of other native-English speaking applicants who are competing for spaces with you will have done so . I ca n't say for certain how a selection committee will factor your English as a second language . It is likely to depend on the institution and the course you are applying for .
I suppose some senior people may publish exclusively on arXiv but they are a minority and I ca n't think of any examples right now . Publishing in mathematics takes a long time . Journal backlogs of multiple years are common enough that if you wait for your paper to appear in print it is already old . This is less of a problem in the other subjects that arXiv covers but still ... So what does publishing on arXiv get the author ? Primarily it gives the paper a time stamp and makes it publicly available . Putting up a paper is fast , it only takes a few minutes and it gives a reference number so that you can cite it in a talk or in a paper . Normally you would have to wait until you get page numbers from a journal . And if you are giving a talk on your paper when you have just finished the work that might still be years in the future . One interesting feature of publishing on arXiv is that you can write small notes and put those up . You can write the " user 's guide " version of a paper . You can post a supplement to a paper that would n't be publishable on its own . Ultimately what it all boils down to is that people post documents to arXiv that they want other people to see and hopefully read . As for prestige , no . There really is n't any as far as I know .
If I was on a graduate committee , I would want to know How long you held the job . What your responsibilities were : e.g. if I was an aide in an undergrad class , did I grade homework ? Did I teach the class sometimes ? Did I have contact with students ? Did I write tests ? How did this job prepare you for admittance into the graduate program . What relevant skills did you obtain ? If the person that oversaw you in the said job is known to the application committee , perhaps say who you worked for . Or if it is a company , say who the company is . There is a huge difference between " Software Engineer " at a company with 5000 employees and " Software Engineer " at a start-up in someone 's basement .
I would go with professor B . If the admissions committee wants to know about your grades , they 'll check your transcript . You want your LORs to give them insight into who you are as a student , what your specific strengths are , etc. . This information is supposed to supplement your transcript , and may even be more important than your grades for certain programs . The fact that professor B 1 ) agreed to write you the letter and 2 ) asked for more details , suggests that he 'll write a good letter for you . The LORs I have read typically do not mention grades , and if a professor knows you well the difference between an A or a B will likely not sway their letter . Edit : I even asked a professor who knew me extremely well to directly address the most obvious weakness in my application , to make sure that would n't raise questions with the committee . You want your application to represent you well , and your grades are only a small part of who you are as a student ( depending on the program you 're applying to ) .
It really does not matter where you come from . In general , to apply for a PhD program in the U.S. , you need : application letter , resume , reference letters ( usually 3 ) , master 's degree ( mostly required ) , transcripts from bachelor 's and master 's program , and GRE score ( many programs require it ) . In addition , TOEFL score if your native language is not English . Most of the time , if you are admitted to a PhD program in social sciences , you will be granted with assistantship / scholarship at the same time . Mostly , it 's an assistantship , which means you will teach or do something else for the department . The stipend of the assistantship usually is only enough for you to live , not for your research study . If you need funding for your research study , you have to invest your own savings , or get research funding from the department or other grant institutions , which is not easy to get . For the resources , use Google or Google Scholar to look for related publications or scholars . Actually , it is a good strategy to contact professors for the research topic first . If a professor is interested in your research topic or finds you competent during the discussion , it will increase the possibility for the professor to accept you to his/her program . But , be carefully prepared , do n't send email before digging into the literature .
If all of your choices wrote the same letter , then of course the letter from the distinguished professor would carry more weight than that of f the assistant professor . However , often the letters from assistant professors are much more detailed and insightful than the letters from distinguished professors , because they have usually worked with the applicant much more closely . They can therefore offer more detailed insights than can more senior staff . This is not always true , but it is at least mostly the case in my experience .
Several months , if you worked with the student , is plenty of time to get an informed impression , and especially so if your impression is good . This is how I would proceed : Write how you know/met the student . Explain why/how your interaction developed . In your case , how did the student capture your attention , why you hired the student , what were the motives for this . Then write facts . You say the student is terrific . What are the facts that support that ? For instance , " the student solved a difficult problem in short time . The student very quickly understood the material you gave her to read . The student has produced a publication . The student is going to submit some research proposal earlier than expected . The student is extremely effective in running studies " . Or , whatever is relevant in your case . At this stage , only list facts which are relevant to support the case of the student . If the student did not yet work with you , but you know the student from teaching her in class , you could go for " top 2 out of 50 " , " best coursework I have seen " or whatever is relevant there . Do n't be tempted to write about things you do not know . If you have few , but promising , facts , limit yourself to state these and make them compelling . In the next section , most references are expecting a few words outside of the concrete scientific facts , e.g. team work abilities , presentation skills , or something else of relevance that makes clear that the student has potential . Sometimes , hobbies are mentioned , but I typically make that dependent on whether it is relevant to the position/grant . Now summarize your impression about the student , supported by the facts listed above . If you are delighted/looking forward to work with the student , do not hesitate to let that be known . Of course , you would want the money - but , see it from the point of the funding agency : it is , of course , more likely to feel more confident giving the money to a student whose supervisor radiates the message that she is enthusiastic to work with that student . It is perfectly legitimate to support one 's own student , and your reference will , of course , be completely open about that .
Yes I think It would be different if say , you took one or two of her classes . But it sounds like she advised you a great deal , and thus she should have some investment in your educational success . Especially if you have talked about graduate school before . What is important is you give her notice as soon as possible so she can find some time to do it : Having a newborn is no easy job . I would phrase it as follows : Dear X ( unless you call her professor , then Professor X , but my advisors I call by their first name ) How is your newborn ? I realize you are very busy with your maternity leave , but I was hoping you might have some time to write me a strong letter of recommendation for graduate school . As you might know I am interested in ZQR , and your mentorship over my senior thesis has been essential to my education . Thank you for your time , user I 'd also like to add that while I was applying to PhD programs , the professor who eventually became my advisor was on maternity leave while I was asking her questions about the lab . In confidence , she enjoyed my emails because having newborns , while a joy most of the time , often lacks the intellectual rigor that most people are accustomed to in their day to day conversations . My guess is she will be very happy to do this , and somewhat expects you to ask .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
I have no direct experience with statistics programs , but I know of no reason to think they differ from math programs in this respect . Assuming that 's the case , letters of recommendation are absolutely critical , at least in U.S. universities . I agree with the person who told you they practically are your application , and I 'm mystified by how someone could tell you they make no difference . ( I wonder whether it 's someone who has never served on an admissions committee or was educated in a very different system . ) It 's true that just about everyone gets what might appear to be good letters . The issue is n't whether they say bad things about you , but rather how strong they are and how compelling a case they make . I 've certainly seen many cases of letters written by the same person that differ enormously in their effect , even though they are all nominally positive . The third piece of advice you received in no way contradicts the second . It 's not enough for a letter just to include flattering comments about you . It needs to make a compelling case for why you will be successful in statistics , written by someone who knows exactly what it takes to succeed in this field , has seen other strong students to whom you can be compared , and has a reputation to protect that will keep them from exaggerating or trying to manipulate the admissions committee . A senior statistician is the best case , but a junior statistician or a mathematician may also be able to do a fine job . A letter from a chemist will not be helpful , and a letter from a professor of literature , no matter how enthusiastic it is , will hurt your case ( by demonstrating that you have no idea how the application process works or that you could n't find anyone more relevant who thinks highly of you ) . Exactly what is required depends on where you are applying . At the top departments , you need letters that make a very strong case indeed . Even outstanding students will be rejected , and you need letters that set you apart from the others . At much lower ranked departments , it might be possible to make a favorable impression based largely on grades and test scores , but even then you 'll still need good enough letters . ( The bar will just be lower . )
Yes , the acknowledgements section of your paper is an appropriate place to thank anyone who provided valuable assistance . Depending on the circumstances , you could phrase it pretty generally ( " I thank the reference librarians at University X for their assistance in conducting a literature search " ) , you could thank specific people , or you could even identify particular contributions ( " I am grateful to Y for bringing the literature on Z to my attention " ) .
Because it 's a cover letter , I think it 's quite natural that you say a lot about you in it . That 's actually not to be avoided , because you want to give the addressee a good idea of your background , your motivations , your interests , etc. . In short , you want to show them who you are , so they want to work with you . This is a totally different exercise than usual academic writing . Now , regarding the redundancy of I , it is a matter of writing style . It probably would n't bother me much , but if you want to diminish it for some reasons , here are worthy alternatives : Instead of starting your sentence with I , just push it somewhere down in some sentences . That way , you avoid the pattern of I as the first word of every sentence . Looking at your group 's wide range of research , I must confess a certain attraction for your recent groundbreaking work on the correlation between <URL> . <URL> Use constructions that , while retaining the first person , shift from the subject pronoun to other cases : It has been my intention for a few years now to shift my research interests from pure psychology to experimental psychohistory , and I have thus taken in 2009 a post-doc position at the University of Trentor ( group of prof. Seldon ) instead of " I decided a few years ago to move to the field of psychohistory ... " . Similarly , you could say <URL> The standard techniques of academic writing ... introduce the pronoun once , then shift the discuss to avoid being the actor , e.g. using passive voice . During my thesis , I introduced a new data reduction technique called XXZ . This algorithm , when applied to large datasets , was used to univocally establish whether data was being manipulated . In particular , results obtained on the 2000 election showed systematic bias against a specific candidate , highlighting its power as a diagnostic tool for real-life applications . <URL> Be aware that there are downsides , though : most of these alternatives are longer than a direct sentence starting with I , which means overusing them could make you sound windy .
In my experience , citation counts are considerably less important than recommendation letters , but they still matter , especially for tenure . For fresh PhDs , high citation counts are definitely helpful , but they 're not a hiring requirement for most fields in CS . But for tenure , it 's really hard to build a successful case without at least one high-impact ( post-thesis ) publication . Smart committees know to gather citation counts , publication counts , acceptance rates , impact factors , h-indices , and other quasi-objective numerical data from reasonable sources and to compare them with peers in the applicant 's field . ( For my promotion cases , for example , my citation counts were mined from Google Scholar , not ISI , and I was compared against other theoretical computer scientists , not other computational-geometers-who-play-with-surface-graphs . ) Alas , not every committee is smart .
While it 's possible that a postdoc letter ( in the absence of further context ) might carry less weight , there are good reasons to ask them anyway : the letter is a testimonial about your ability to do research . A postdoc who 's worked with you is in a much better position to say something nontrivial about this . Lines like " I closely worked with so and so " carry weight . the postdoc might know faculty at the university you 're applying to . In that case the letter carries even more weight ( I 'm likely to pay more attention to letters from people that I know )
First , here is an answer to " What do letter writers tend to do when writing about men or women candidates ? " One difference I have seen mentioned in the literature but have not seen mentioned in the other answers : use of standout adjectives , words like " superb , " " outstanding , " and " excellent . " Specifically , in letters for 62 female and 222 male applicants to a medical faculty at a large American medical school in the mid-1990s : We developed a list of ' standout adjectives ' , namely ' excellent ' , ' superb ' , ' outstanding ' , ' unique ' , ' exceptional ' , and ' unparalleled ' . In tabulating the percentages of letters for female applicants and male applicants that included these terms , we found them to be similar ( 63 % for women and 58 % for men ) . And yet the letters for men read differently . Our gut reaction after reading many of these letters was that the men had been praised more highly with these terms than had the women . Thus we were led to consider frequency . That is , instead of coding mere occurrence of at least one of these terms in a letter , we coded for multiple occurrences . Here we found that the letters for women that had at least one of these terms had an average of 1.5 terms , whereas the letters for men that included at least one had an average of 2.0 such terms . That is , there was repetition of standout adjectives within men 's letters to a greater extent . Trix , F. , &amp; Psenka , C. ( 2003 ) . <URL> . Discourse &amp; Society , 14 ( 2 ) , 191-220 . And in letters written for 235 male and 42 female applicants for either a chemistry or biochemistry faculty position at a large U.S. research university : In line with Hypothesis 5 , results revealed a significant gender difference in how many standout adjectives ( e.g. outstanding , unique , and exceptional ) the recommender used to describe the candidate , F ( 1 , 278 ) = 3.95 , p = .05 . Consistent with the notion that implicit biases can influence how letter writers describe female candidates , recommenders described male candidates ( M = .70 ) with significantly more standout adjectives compared to female candidates ( M = .60 ) . To address the possibility that this difference could be accounted for by differences in the qualifications of male and female candidates , we conducted an ANCOVA that included number of publications , presentations , fellowships , postdoctoral positions , and number letters of recommendation as covariates . Even after removing variance in standout language due to any and all of these variables , the gender difference remained significant , p = .04 . There were no differences between departments in how many standout adjectives candidates ' letters included . The " standout words " from the latter study were : excellen * , superb , outstanding , unique , exceptional , unparalleled , * est , most , wonderful , terrific * , fabulous , magnificent , remarkable , extraordinar * , amazing , supreme * , unmatched Schmader , T. , Whitehead , J. , &amp; Wysocki , V. H. ( 2007 ) . <URL> . Sex Roles , 57 ( 7-8 ) , 509-514 . The latter study also found , however , that " results revealed more similarities than differences in letters written for male and female candidates . " A third study did not find a significant difference in use of standout adjectives by gender of the applicant . In a review of 763 letters for applicants to an otolaryngology/head and neck surgery ( OHNS ) residency program at Stanford University : The length of the letters was similar , as were the mean number of " standout " terms . However , this study did address your other question , " What do men and women tend to do differently when writing letters ? " : All 763 letters " recommended " the applicant for OHNS residency . Ninety-one percent of letters were written by men , 68.4 % by male otolaryngologists ( OTOs ) , 4.2 % by female OTOs , and 33 % by OHNS department chairs or division chiefs ( 100 % men ) . A comparison of female and male letter writers revealed five categories with significant differences : female letter writers were more likely to call an applicant a " team player " ( P = .000 ) , " compassionate , " ( P = .001 ) and use strings of adjectives ( P = .024 ) . In contrast , they were less likely when compared with male letter writers , to mention an applicant 's personal life ( P = .003 ) , or write " letters of minimal assurance " ( P = .035 ) . In more detail : Male letter writers were more likely ( 28 % of letters compared with 10 % of letters by female letter writers ) to comment on the candidate 's personal life , sometimes discussing the candidate 's family history ( e.g. , immigration from another country ) , major accomplishments ( e.g. , biking across the United States ) , or hobbies ( e.g. , fly fishing ) . Female letter writers tended to discuss the applicant in terms of his or her professional accomplishments only . They were also more likely to mention that the applicant was a " team player " and " compassionate . " Women were more likely to use a string of adjectives to describe the applicant . Some researchers assert that the use of stringing terms is used to substitu
Recommendation letters are all about trust : why should the person reading the recommendation letter believe the person who is writing it , when they say that they should place trust in you ? Thus , all else being equal , a professor with better qualifications provides a stronger recommendation . Other considerations , however , can be more important , as it all boils down to the basic question of trust . For example : A little-known professor who knows you well and has worked together with you is a better recommender than a world-famous professor who can only say : " This student was one of 100 who got a good grade in my giant class this year . " A professor with a close colleague in the department where you are applying may be much more trusted in their recommendation than a world-famous professor who nobody in the department knows personally . Furthermore , you probably will have more than one letter writer , and diversity in your letter-writers can be a virtue : some more prominent , others more in depth , etc. . Thus , you really need to look at this as a whole package , and say : " What is the combination of people who will , as a collective , present the most favorable and trustworthy picture of me to the particular places where I am applying ? "
Posters are hard to get right . They require design skills and knowing what the core message of your paper is . Presenting them requires people skills . Aside from this , different areas seem to have different criteria and norms when it comes to this so if you want to fit in you should try to follow those . But in general , most scientific posters I 've seen are really terrible in terms of tools for communication : they have far too much text and get into far too much technical detail . For example , <URL> posted in the comments on the question , there 's some nice visuals but all of the posters have , in my opinion , far too much text . One excuse for a lot of text on a poster I often hear is that people will can read them on their own between sessions or whatever . In my own area and experience , I do n't buy this argument : that 's what the paper is for and I rarely see anyone reading these literal walls of text in their spare time . The advice you 've gotten from the internet seems to follow that thinking : the thinking of printing a full paper on a poster in bullet form . An A0/A1 wall of text is not the best way to sell your work , nor is a boring traditional narrative of introduction , methodology , results , related work , conclusion or whatever . I say this from the perspective of someone who 's gone to too many poster sessions and gotten trapped at a poster where someone for some reason decided I would be interested in spending 20 minutes silently listening to them recite the slightly abridged version of the paper that they had for some reason decided to printed on their poster . One guy even seemed to expect me to leave after he was done . After he had finished reading the conclusions at me he had a look on his face that said " who 's next ? " . Okay so that 's one extreme . For me , the secret to a good poster presentation is two-fold : the poster and the person in front of it . In terms of a poster session , people will probably have some food with them , people might even have some drinks , you should not assume to take more than 5 minutes of their time , they 're probably not going to get all the technical details and they 're definitely not going to read a wall of text . At least one would hope that they would n't read it because that would imply that you 'd be talking to yourself since they can not read text and listen to you at the same time ( unless you 're reading aloud the text that is ) . When I was working with students on posters , I would always advise them to dispose of the idea that they can or should communicate the full technical depth of a work on a poster to a passer-by in five minutes . Their goal should be to motivate and communicate enough of the core ideas of the work to convince people passing by their poster that the paper would be worth taking the time to read and to teach them something cool . In terms of that goal , I would bring the student to a white-board and tell them to pretend I was a conference-goer who knew nothing of the work but we met at a coffee break and I asked them to tell me about the work . They can use the board or ... if really needed ... they can point to something in the paper . While presenting , they should appear enthusiastic ( without overselling ) and emphasise why the work is important ... why I should care , and what the main results were . They should also listen to what I say ... it should be a conversation . They should make sure that the person they 're talking to is following them ... that they do n't just launch into a 10 minute soliloquy at the first person that looks in their direction but that there 's an element of interaction . After that exercise whatever they were trying to represent on the board or whatever they needed to point at in the paper : that and pretty much only that is what goes on the poster ... diagrams , examples , main results ... things they can point to help them explain verbally what the work is about . Then we 'd sketch out a poster and try make it visually appealing ... try to tell a visual story with it ... try to make it attractive for people to come over and ask what it 's about . Not that the end result is always perfect , but the approach does lead to a better result in terms of a communication tool than the wall-of-text approach that seems so bizarre to me in the world of scientific posters .
The issue with getting a letter from a post-doc is not their job title ; it 's the degree of experience they have with different students , and the authority with which they can judge their preparedness for a graduate program . So , it 's not that a letter from a postdoc is unacceptable and as soon as they have an assistant professorship everything is great . There 's a subtle continuum where the more experience someone has , the more weight their letter has , because they have known so many more students . Also , this is a bit more cynical , but humans are social creatures . It 's well-nigh unavoidable that they give more weight to a letter from someone they know personally . A postdoc is much less likely to be well-connected and thus able to leverage this for you .
end question
start question
Appropriately thank a supervisor for giving you a chance when you actually failed ?
" Thanks for the opportunity " is almost always appropriate and welcome . As far as " apologetic " goes , I 'd think on why the goal was n't reached . Some research projects are known to be long shots before they 're begun and failure , while obviously not desired , is not an unforeseen outcome . Sometimes outside events beyond anyone 's control torpedo things . If this is the " flavor " of your situation , then I do n't necessarily think abject apologies are called for , though you can certainly commiserate with others involved on how things turned out . Sometimes research just does n't pan out , and good research supervisors understand that you ca n't hit if you do n't swing . On the other hand , when I 've been part of projects that failed in whole or part due to things I did or did n't do , I 've tried to make sure the supervisor involved knows that at least I learned from the experience and that I had an idea of how I would do things differently in similar circumstances should they arise . Really , this is a valuable response in either case . Especially , though , if you hope to have future research opportunities with this supervisor , I 'd make sure this is understood .
Do n't write results you do n't have . Neither in the present , past or future tense . Just do n't do it . Yet , I agree with you that there are circumstances where you do need to write an abstract on on-going work . For example , many big conferences in my field now ask for abstracts to be submitted up to 10 months in advance of the conference itself ! If you are a post-doc staying on a 12-month project , you want to present something but you might not yet know how things will turn out . So , two techniques I propose : Just write about the methodology , and present your goals in a general way , without " predicting " particular results but insisting on the importance of the topic . That is , emphasize strongly your points # 1 and # 2 , and then describe point # 3 as you would your " results " . Things like : In this particular study , we compare the efficiency of methods A and B on given subsets of a reference database . We use a large number of different criteria for measuring efficiency , including ... , ... and ... We also discuss in detail the implementation of subprocess X in method B , because its has not been specifically optimized in the existing literature . I know it sounds vague , but that 's the best you can achieve honestly , without pretending to know what you expect to find . Bait and switch : if you have existing results in a closely related study , you can incorporate them as part of your results . Mix this approach with above , so that you have at least a few specific results to list in your point # 4 . Then , when you will make your presentation , just present your new results alongside the old ( some people would remove completely the old results , but that makes it too much of a " bait and switch " for my taste ) . It is , after all , quite common for people to include newer results in orals/posters that they obtained after the original submission . It is not frowned upon , as long as you keep a decent agreement between the original abstract and the final content .
Step 1 : Do n't panic I was in a similar situation halfway through my MSc . I was in a panic , sure that my academic career was in ruins . My supervisor calmed me down , reminded that a negative result was still a result , and and told me that a for a master 's degree , it was not strictly required that I make a scientific contribution or have a publication . In the worst case , in my thesis I would present my negative results , explain why this technique did n't work , and suggest what could be done differently by future researchers . ( Once I was relaxed enough to think clearly , I came up with new things to try , and everything worked out grand . ) I suggest you discuss the " worst case scenario " with your supervisor ; you 'll probably find out it 's not as bad as you think . Remember that this is research : positive results are not guaranteed . Step 2 : Think about why this technique is n't working . I 'm sure you 've learned something about why your technique is n't working . That should give you some ideas for what to try next . If you 're out of ideas , sit a friend down and explain everything to them . The friend does n't need to know anything about machine learning ; they 're just a sounding board . The naive questions they ask may give you ideas . Maybe you need a week off to recharge your batteries . Step 3 : Try something new . Take those new ideas you got in step 2 , and apply them . But now that you 're more experienced , think about how you could find out more quickly if the idea is feasible , so you can change tack again if needed .
Guidance is typically provided on when you 'd be expected to come up with your research question and your nomination of supervisor . Follow that guidance . If you have n't been told yet , then at least wait for the induction week to find out how things are organised . To kick off on choosing a dissertation topic and supervisor before induction really would be too early . Indeed , it would just look silly . So at the very minimum , do at least wait for two weeks . On our ( UK ) Masters courses , the selection of thesis topic and supervisor does n't happen until the second term . That 's because the taught modules in the first term gives the students the grounding in research skills and research areas , and an introduction to the staff , that enables them to make better decisions . If a student approaches a member of staff earlier than that , then a common response would be to note the interest , and to invite them to come back in the second term if they were still interested , but that there 's no commitment to do so , as lots of things change after the first term . An early approach does not necessarily make a good impression . It can look hasty . It can look like you 're not expecting to learn anything in the first term . And we do n't really do reserving of research-questions , as such . At least , merely being the first to propose a research question for your dissertation does n't give you priority in doing it . We work with students to get the best match of question , student skills , and supervisory support . If student B provides a better match than student A , then we 'll recommend that student B does that dissertation , regardless of whether A or B proposed it first . In recent cases where we have had overlaps between particular students , then the research area has has sufficient open questions that the students have each been able to do a distinct dissertation within it ( and indeed subsequently co-author papers together ) . So I do n't really recognise this notion of " missing out on a topic " . It takes quite a bit of subject familiarity to understand where the open questions are , and that 's one of the reasons why we wait until the second term before we get to topic and supervisor selection .
Is this normal or is this something that I should be credited for ? No , it is not normal practice ; yes , you should be credited whenever a result from a paper for which you are a co-author is mentioned . The only exception I can think of is if the paper has several authors and is cited in the style " [ first author ] et al. ( 2014 ) showed that ... " . Even then , one would typically expect the presentation to include a full citation at the end that explicitly mentions your name as a coauthor . Is it typical for someone to contact you before using your research in a presentation ? They do not need to contact you before mentioning your research in the presentation ( and it is not typical for anyone to do such a thing ) , as long as two conditions hold : a. the research that they are going to mention has been published or is otherwise publicly available , and b. they credit you by name in their presentation as I stated above . Is it worth contacting the company about this ? That depends . What are you hoping to achieve by contacting the company ? It seems very difficult to judge from the details you provide whether this was some kind of egregious , intentional misrepresentation by the person in the video , or whether it was an accidental omission due to sloppiness or perhaps not copying correctly the list of authors . If it was the latter , although it is still a bit annoying I would n't bother complaining - at most I would send a friendly note to the presenter to politely call their attention to the fact that I am also a coauthor of the paper they cited , so that they can correct the error the next time they use this presentation . If it was the former and there is a clear intent to deceive or other unethical aspect , I may seriously consider contacting the company to complain .
Yes , you made a mistake , because " last name " means surname or family name ( sobrenome in Portuguese or apellido in Spanish ) . It is NOT the last of your names . So your question now is how to fix it . Have they answered your email yet ? If not , call them . You can also call your testing center and ask if they 'll allow you to take the test . If they say they are OK and understand that you made a mistake , then you have more time to fix the problem . If not , you need to fix it before your test date . If they do allow you to take the test before you fix the problem and you still have issues with ETS ( and can not fix your name ) , then you 'll need to contact the universities you are applying to , and make sure they are aware of the problem and are able to find your test grades once ETS reports them to the University . I know of people from Spanish-speaking countries that have registered for the GRE using only their first surname and have had no issues during the test taking or the reporting of the grades . However , your problem is different because you are using the last of your surnames , and unless in your country that surname is considered your " main " surname , they may not let you take the test . For the case of the people I know , in their countries the first surname is considered your " main " surname , so using the first or both of their surnames works , but using their last surname would probably have raised questions at the testing center .
An unmotivated graduate student will usually be a lackluster student at best . These students will be more likely to be distracted by whatever their true interests are . Moreover , in a program like the one you are describing , you will be making a very significant career detour . You would be advised not to make such a move unless you are absolutely sure that it 's something you 'll want to do for the next four years , since you will have a payback requirement . If you 're not sure about it , this is the kind of move that can wreak havoc on your career -- particularly if you ( re - ) discover your dissatisfaction after the classwork is complete , and the service period begins .
This is a partial representation of the truth . On the one hand , departments are always looking to retain masters students as PhD students ; it 's better for the department ( better numbers ) , it 's better for the professors ( more research from PhD relative to masters ) , and it 's better for the university . On the other hand , simply looking at the numbers you 'll see that most masters students do not go on to become a PhD student <URL> . I think it 's safe to say that most students who go through masters programs enter with a goal in mind ( academia or industry ) and finish with that same goal in mind . I do n't know how it works in other countries , so I ca n't compare that . Also , regarding whether they put more emphasis on PhD preparation than in other countries , I do n't know how to quantify that .
On the one hand , it shows that you are engaged in this necessary part of scientific research that is peer-review . That 's one of the major reasons why people list it . If your CV is being viewed as part of a performance review or hiring decision , or even for awards , this constitutes " service to the community " and indicates that you 're a good citizen . It 's a noisy signal for the reasons you indicate , and so it does n't carry a whole lot of weight compared to things like technical committee memberships and leadership roles , but it 's part of the larger picture . Moreover , for more junior researchers who have n't yet had the chance to take on leadership roles , this is a good signal of service .
It 's an old adage that " You do n't truly understand something unless you can explain it completely to someone else " . Writing notes effectively forces you to explain the topic to yourself . Oftentimes , when writing over notes from a class or from what you 've read , the simple process of re-explaining it to yourself will clarify points that may have been confusing earlier . For this purpose , I try not to write notes as I 'm reading , but rather I 'll read a section and them summarize that in my notes . Having read the full picture , I can then ensure that my understanding of the topic is more complete , and my notes should reflect that . On a different note entirely , repetition enhances retention , and writing notes is at the very least doubles the number of times you 'll see it ( once in the book , and once as you write it ) , which should help your remember it that much better .
I would pick a major that maximizes your future options . Not necessarily one that will get you a job , but one that gives you a strong foundation so it 's easy to pick up knowledge of other subjects . One good major for this is math . Once you have mathematical sophistication it 's a lot easier to learn other fields , like physics , engineering , computer science etc. . In general , I think it 's a lot easier to switch from math to a more applied field than it would be to switch from an applied field to math . ( Personally I majored in math , and then switched to computer science , which is another major I highly endorse . ) Besides , it is a very fun major . At any reputable university the homework assignments require original thought and no two problems are the same . In terms of career options , most math majors I knew either ( 1 ) went for their PhDs ( 2 ) became traders/took other jobs in the financial sector ( 3 ) branched into software engineering or data science .
I 'd just pretend that you stumbled across a paper , rather than say you reviewed it on your blog . And you should not make comments about the pre-published version of the paper . This could be embarrassing for the author , and seriously violates the trust embodied in the reviewing process .
Complementing the other answers , either in addition to , or apart from , asking for the codes and running them yourself , I do n't think it is a bad idea to explicitly ask the authors , something like this : The standard algorithms for executing ( bla bla bla ) , e.g. as followed in the works of Refs . [ 1-3 ] ( feed these in ) , are suggestive of a standard accuracy in typical algorithms . The current work appears to have bettered the same , which is a strong point in favor of publication . However , the authors should include a comment in the manuscript , mentioning what changes have they implemented to the typical algorithms so highly prevalent , which leads to this enhanced accuracy . My jargon may have to be twisted a bit here , but I think I convey the point . This being a query in the referee report , the authors shall be obligated to feed in the details , and if there is some manipulation involved , it may end up being exposed . Hope that helps :)
No gifts . Words speak volumes . If you must give gifts , something handmade is better than anything purchased . Purchased gifts , especially more expensive gifts , may , in fact make your instructor feel uncomfortable and skirts the line of appropriate teacher-student relationships . At the very minimum , a handwritten , thoughtfully articulated note is the easiest way to thank a good teacher . A handwritten letter to the department Chair is even more powerful , but the best way to thank a truly outstanding teacher is to nominate him or her for a teaching award . Most institutions have teaching awards that give excellent instructors public recognition , something to enhance his or her resume and best of all they sometimes come with a small monetary reward .
The other answers already explain that no , you should n't be doing research all the time , with no time for breaks , relaxation and other interests . All this is quite correct . However , I am a bit unsure whether the stark dichotomy " all research all the time " versus " a few hours in the morning " is really helpful here . Maybe an answer to the following question is more helpful : Is doing a Ph.D. right for you if you plan on doing it as a 9-5 job , 40 hours per week ? And there , I would be a bit more careful . Yes , there are people who can do a Ph.D. like a " normal job " , at their desk at 9am sharp and dropping their pencils at 5pm . It is possible . However , my personal impression is that these people will avoid the typical Ph.D. burnout , but they will likely not be top performers . So my answer to the modified question above is : You will probably do fine with a 40 hour workweek , if you make sure to stay self-motivated . However , you should think deeply about just why you want to do a Ph.D. . . because unless you are uncommonly brilliant , you will likely not be productive enough to stay in academia and compete with people who routinely put in 50-60 hours per week . You may want to think about leaving academe with the Ph.D. and going into industry . Note that I am not saying " 40 hour Ph.D. students " are lazy . However , if you ca n't work up the level of passion and commitment to your topic that makes you want to put in 50-60 hours per week often , then there will likely be someone else , and that someone else will have more publications five or ten years down the road .
Research is not just the most important aspect of any PhD program worth the name ; it 's the entire point . Everything you do as part of the program ( teaching duties aside ) is to prepare you for a career as a researcher . So getting a PhD without any intention of putting this research training to use would be like spending years as a baking apprentice without any intention of becoming a baker : maybe not a complete waste if you really like baking ( but not enough to make it a career ? ) , but almost inarguably not the best use of your time . Lots of people get PhDs and do n't become researchers , but if these people had known beforehand what industry they would end up in , odds are they could have gotten a better jump start on their career by getting a Master 's degree focused on that industry and entering the workforce after one or two years ( rather than 5 + for the PhD ) . There are exceptions to this principle , but they are relatively uncommon , and usually involve industry jobs that somewhat resemble research anyway . I can think of only two other justifications for getting a PhD : learning for learning 's sake , and prestige . The former is a noble goal , but if all you want to do is learn without contributing to the body of knowledge in your field , this is contrary to the spirit of ( good ) PhD programs as stated above . Furthermore , you can learn all you want in your free time without entering a PhD program . Find out what the standard graduate-level textbooks are in your field , and work through them . If your knowledge gets up to the research level in a particular topic , you can start reading recent research articles . ( Your local library will likely have access . ) As for prestige , this may be subjective , but spending five years of your life for a piece of paper is unlikely to be satisfying in the long run . And , speaking as someone who has a PhD , you 'll soon learn that most people will not really want to address you as " Doctor . " Having said all that , if you do like ( or think you would like ) research , but are put off solely by the expected competition and stress , I urge you to be more open-minded . Academia is certainly competitive and stressful , but so are most careers worth having .
Complementary to Suresh 's and Peter 's more comprehensive answers that you should definitely take into account : ( +1 to both ) Use ArXiv ; ie . publish it yourself . Go ahead and write your findings down and put them in public . This will be a good exercise as : you will be covered for plagiarism etc. and you 'll be also able to refer other people 's attention to it . It will be immensely easier to attract people attention to something tangible than just referring to " some idea you think it is great " . As Torvalds said : " Talk is cheap . Show me the code . " ( or Maths in your case ) . people you do not know , can actually find you ; or even cite you for that matter . I know a lot of people who regularly read ArXiv papers to keep up to speed with the bleeding edge of stuff . You might be lucky and really get some attention from people that actually care for your work . you will see for yourself if what you wrote can be formulated in a research paper and it does n't come across as some '' back of the envelope '' calculations . You might even identify where feedback from a collaborator would be helpful . If you think you are up to something good , put it up there . Worse case scenario : nobody bothers and you never know if you were right or wrong .
" Thanks for the opportunity " is almost always appropriate and welcome . As far as " apologetic " goes , I 'd think on why the goal was n't reached . Some research projects are known to be long shots before they 're begun and failure , while obviously not desired , is not an unforeseen outcome . Sometimes outside events beyond anyone 's control torpedo things . If this is the " flavor " of your situation , then I do n't necessarily think abject apologies are called for , though you can certainly commiserate with others involved on how things turned out . Sometimes research just does n't pan out , and good research supervisors understand that you ca n't hit if you do n't swing . On the other hand , when I 've been part of projects that failed in whole or part due to things I did or did n't do , I 've tried to make sure the supervisor involved knows that at least I learned from the experience and that I had an idea of how I would do things differently in similar circumstances should they arise . Really , this is a valuable response in either case . Especially , though , if you hope to have future research opportunities with this supervisor , I 'd make sure this is understood .
Since in a recent email your advisor has told you about the health issue , it is perfectly acceptable for you to sympathize/empathize with them and it would not be out of place to ask if you could do anything regarding your work to accommodate them . That said , if you feel uncomfortable raising the issue , you should be able to depend on your advisor being mature enough to tell you what he/she needs in terms of accommodations . If your advisor had not mentioned anything to you and you wish to sympathize/empathize with them , then you need to be more delicate .
I usually try to add a line to the acknowledgements to thank anonymous referees and I try to make it honest and clear . Reviewers ' time and effort invariably improves my papers and I think it 's only polite to thank anybody who contributed for their time , effort , and engagement to making a manuscript better . Will anybody care if it 's missing ? Will anybody even notice if it 's missing ? Probably not . That said , although it may be the " job " of the reviewers to give suggestions , refereeing is something that academics do as volunteers . Reviewing papers is perhaps the most thankless part of an academic job . Acknowledgement of the positive impact that referees have seems like the least an author can do .
end question
start question
Should I order references on surname or paper title when using Harvard style ?
From <URL> : The entries in the list should be in alphabetical order by the author 's last name [ sic ] . As pointed out by aeismail in the comment , the second criterion is the date : Works by the same author should be ordered chronologically , from oldest to most recent Of course , you might have many articles with the same author and same year , in that case , they say that : If your reference list includes multiple works by the same author in the same year , identify them in your parenthetical citations and in your reference list by a lowercase letter after the year , assigning each letter in alphabetical order by the title of the work
To a first-order , you should say what is actually true . If you enrolled into a Master 's program and that 's the program you are in now , you should not try to indicate you are really a PhD student . Past that , though , how exactly you state something which is otherwise true - how specific versus how vague , for instance - is a reflection of what you are using your resume or CV to actually do . If you are applying for an employment position , you should understand there is no such thing as a singular " resume/CV " - but a variety of versions which are all true , but emphasize different things and are more/less clear about some things , depending on the desired position . You are trying to tell useful story , and what 's useful to someone hiring a staff researcher vs. an entry-level technician can be very different things . Sometimes you 'll want to be specific , such as when your education is a very specific and useful fit for the position , where 'd you 'd say something like , " I earned my Masters 's in Basket Weaving and am currently working on my PhD in the sub-field of Applied Stained Wicker Fabrication Techniques . " In a job where the details are n't so relevant , to save space you might just say " I 'm a graduate student in commercial art . " But to reiterate , the reality of your program at your school is important to what you say . If your program has 2 years of coursework that is like a Master 's program , but they have not explicitly granted you a Master 's degree ( you could not ask them for a physical copy of it because they have n't granted you one ) , then do not imply or say you have a Master 's degree . If your program is for a Master 's degree and then they technically choose or allow students to continue on to a PhD program , do n't just say you are in a PhD program if you are n't . Other than for general reasons of honesty , you 'd be one question away from needing to say something like , " well , technically ... " and then you 'll have to back-track and look like you could just be making up everything you 've said .
Perhaps one little " therapy " often relevant is to try to remind yourself that you are the authority in reading papers critically , and the goals are about progress , not evaluation of you by some third party . It is understandable that " school " has left one with an excessively paranoid concern about being attacked , being " checked-on " , being examined , being doubted , and so on . Indeed , " school " often includes exaggerated measures that express very clearly an antagonistic , adversarial attitude of " teachers " toward " students " . Naturally , many negligent students are able to ignore this pressure , while students who were already doing the right thing are the ones who feel that somehow they 're not doing enough . A similar dynamic exists in many human enterprises . So , again , the thing to repeat to yourself over and over is that now you are to function as an authority , you are to assess these papers . The point is not so much any more someone else 's assessment of your " performance " ( often on meaningless , contrived , artificial tasks ) . In particular , the common " teaching-examining " devices of " trick questions " should be forgotten . When encountering a new idea , do n't immediately be worrying how someone could use the idea to trip you up , but , instead , what constructive use you could make of it . In particular , if it does not ( at least for the moment ) seem useful to you , then do n't spend a lot of time on it just for the sake of self-defense against trick questions ! Nevertheless , one should often keep a " pointer " to seemingly useless ideas , because their utility may be discovered only later . But do n't study things whose utility seems null . Move on , just keeping a " bookmark " , so if/when something percolates into your head later , you can go back and look a second time .
You should always make sure your basic understanding is at a very good level in any research project , particularly in the sciences . An important part of science and mathematics is being able to communicate your ideas in very simple terms . I think Einstein said that " if you can not explain it simply , you do not understand it well enough . " If all you can do is prove things but not explain what the results really mean or how they connect to the basic components of your field , then you 're not really doing science or math - you 're only shuffling around symbols on a page . It 's a bit like a computer : computers can prove things about math ( automatic theorem provers ) , but would you say they 're doing math if they do n't understand what it is that they are doing ? All they do is shuffle symbols around and come to conclusions based on basic axioms inputted by the user . This is n't to say that you should n't pick away at the problem immediately . You should maybe poke around and get an idea of how things go but if you are put on the spot and asked a basic question and you ca n't answer it , you 'll look like you have n't done your due diligence . You 're always going to have some gap in your understanding , even at the fundamental levels , but that does n't excuse not having any understanding of the basics . Here 's another take : if you end up solving the problem you 're given , your professor might ask you to write up a paper on the work to be submitted to Journal XYZ . If all you can do is explain the steps you took but not connect it to the things the reader knows , your paper will be completely dead in the water and will likely get shrugged off . A good paper has good results . A great paper has a very good narrative with good results that is very clear and understandable . Even if you do n't write the introduction yourself , throughout the paper you will naturally connect results or ideas back to things others have done ( " Our approach relates to this work by [ authors ] in such and such ways , " or " Employing a common technique , we have ... " ) . If you do n't have a basic understanding of the things in your field , you ca n't make this connection for the reader ( which forces them to hopefully come to this realization themself ) . This is not a skill you should expect to have immediately ; it takes time to learn and hone this skill but it is an important aspect of paper writing . A personal anecdote/cautionary tale : I started on my current project a few years ago in undergrad . At the time , I had a very rough understanding of advanced mathematics . I knew enough measure theory and functional analysis to vaguely understand ideas and basic proofs but not enough to know what are acceptable procedures and what are not . I neglected the basics - not because of my own doing , but lack of proper supervision - and ended up too focused on my project . It 's a bit like putting blinders up : you wo n't have any understanding outside of your project and ca n't properly judge the validity of what you 're doing . I was rearranging integrals like it was going out of style because I did n't know that I could n't do that in my situation due to skipping the basics . I ended up with results but they were not acceptable proofs by any means . Since I was so focused on my project , I ended up not having much of an understanding of the basics and looked like a deer in headlights when people asked me about the basic , very technical details of the mathematics I should have been using . Since then , I 've more than made up for all of those deficiencies but had I not unintentionally neglected the basics , I would n't have wasted so much time ( read : years ) doing stupid things that were not valid at all .
I would cite the exact version you are referring to in your work . Therefore the year should be the year of that version . You should also <URL> . This is to minimise the effect of potential changes in the cited work on your paper . Moreover , your goal is to provide the reader with a precise pointer to the cited work so that they can easily find it .
From experience , both as a member of ResearchGate and as a postgraduate , I would say the main question is more about worth than about acceptability . Sounds like you did the right thing when you posted these papers the first time , with characterizing them as undergraduate works , therefore managing expectations . You feel these papers may be of interest to others ; fair enough . Statistics of opens and reads , and any message you get about them could be a good indication of how worthy they are to peers . If nobody gets to see them , you might as well keep them to yourself . Over 100 reads for an undergraduate paper sounds rather cool , and might give you an interesting clue about the popularity of your paper topic , and might encourage you to work further around the same topic for further research and papers .
The key factor here is that the professor X is retiring . He is not attempting to initiate a group discussion , he is trying to pass you off to the other CC professors and give you an introduction to them . The correct way to respond is to send a nice single-addressee thank you note to original professor X only , perhaps also asking your query about Professor T , then send a single-addressee email to each individual Professor listed in the CC . The key here is that you wo n't be working with the group , you 'll only be working with one of them .
If you have written the paper , you certainly have the right to be at least a co-author . In fact , from what you said , it seems to me highly dubious that your professor should a an author at all . Being paid as a RA does not waive your right of getting credits for publications you wrote . Your professor is also paid by the university . EDIT : If you would like to talk to your professor about this , I 'd suggest that you talk politely . To be honest , I do n't know how to do this , but I am sure this is important ( and possible ) . Thanks to Captain Emacs for their very valuable advice in the comment .
In the United States , at least , one would typically use the same structure of address as with any other name , e.g. , " Prof. Zhang . " To do otherwise marks the person as different in a way that may be inappropriate , particularly if ( as with many Americans of Chinese heritage ) they use a European name order . If the professor wishes to be addressed otherwise , it is up to them to make this clear . From my experiences with European colleagues , I would expect it is similar there as well . I can not speak for proper courtesy in East Asia ...
According to <URL> : The conference proceedings are to be published in the Springer 's LNAI ( indexed by DBLP , EI , Scopus , and Thomson ISI ) . In other words , your conference paper is already published . The journal paper will therefore be a new publication , and as such , you could use a different title , to avoid any confusion ( and it will be a different paper , since you have to expand it ) . EDIT However , there are precedents , for at least one previous edition of the conference you 're mentioning , of authors having the same title in the conference and in a journal edition ( taken from DBLP ) : Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . IEICE Transactions 94-D ( 3 ) : 479-486 ( 2011 ) Peerasak Intarapaiboon , Ekawit Nantajeewarawat , Thanaruk Theeramunkong : Extracting Chemical Reactions from Thai Text for Semantics-Based Information Retrieval . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 271-281 Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Ling Ji : Power load forecasting using data mining and knowledge discovery technology . IJIIDS 5 ( 5 ) : 452-467 ( 2011 ) Yongli Wang , Dongxiao Niu , Yakun Wang : Power Load Forecasting Using Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Technology . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 319-328 Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . IJATS 3 ( 4 ) : 1-18 ( 2011 ) Moamin Ahmed , Mohd Sharifuddin Ahmad , Mohd Zaliman M. Yusoff : A Collaborative Framework for Multiagent Systems . ACIIDS ( 1 ) 2010 : 329-338 Looking at random references from the journals in question , it seems quite frequent to have the same name for a journal paper and a conference publication the previous year . In other words , I stand corrected , and you might want to keep the same name for the journal version . As pointed out by DavidRicherby and Mangara , it 's likely to be field dependent . Hence , the best approach is probably to look at previous editions of the journals in question , and check if there are matching conference papers .
Personally , I am a big believer of footnotes . They enable additional information to be added , without distracting the reader from the main argument . However , others will not share my position . One test I like to apply before adding a footnote is : can I include the footnote text in the main body ? If I can do so without hindering the reader , then I tend to do so .
The facile answer is you do n't stop searching the literature . Even as the review evolves , you should be including new references if they are noteworthy in addressing questions within the field . This process should continue as long as you are working in the field of the problem . Of course , from a practical standpoint , you do need to select a cutoff . There should be a reasonable point in time in which you 've set the outline of the review , and decided on the main topics and questions to be discussed . At that point , it would be fair to set aside adding more references , and stick to what 's been published . However , you should continue to monitor the field , and if further revisions or updates of the text are necessary , then you should include the papers published in the interim as part of your updates .
Short answer It varies . Ask your advisor ! According to my advisor ( Social Sciences , using APA style manual ) , ' the author ' is always correct , and the use of ' I ' hurts the eyes and the sensibilities ! Although many style guides now permit the use of ' I ' , especially for a single-author paper , you will find that many academics have been taught to avoid ' I ' . They may express strong dislike for the use of ' I ' , and your work may subtly and unconsciously be considered ' less good ' because of your pronoun use . ' The author ' is always considered correct . The bigger problem is probably learning how to write fluidly and concisely with this construction . Vary your sentence structure , and absolutely do NOT begin every other sentence with ' the author found/did/decided ' !
I am going to focus my answer on your original question statement ( but without getting involved in editing the official title of your Question ) : When changing fields , should my past research be written in a way that brings out the maximum relevance to the new area ? In my current draft of this part , about a half is about this the problem and the result of the work , another half is for my contribution and what I 've learnt . Good . This is exactly what they 're looking for , in that section of your essay . Having said that , should I focus less on describing the work and leave space for the thing that will be useful for the next research ? No , you can let the " previous work " section stand alone . That 's the section where you show the committee that you have done good science , and that you can speak about it in an understandable way . Just to make sure we 're on the same page -- your essay is going to have another major section , where you get to be imaginative about what you would like to do in the new field , right ?
From <URL> : The entries in the list should be in alphabetical order by the author 's last name [ sic ] . As pointed out by aeismail in the comment , the second criterion is the date : Works by the same author should be ordered chronologically , from oldest to most recent Of course , you might have many articles with the same author and same year , in that case , they say that : If your reference list includes multiple works by the same author in the same year , identify them in your parenthetical citations and in your reference list by a lowercase letter after the year , assigning each letter in alphabetical order by the title of the work
This advice , taken literally , is absurd . Adjectives and adverbs are perfectly reasonable parts of speech , and there is no inherent reason to avoid them . If you pick up any piece of academic writing , it should be clear that nearly every sentence includes them , and could not reasonably be expressed without them . I count four in your question itself : " academic " , " another " , " specific " , " proper " . I ca n't imagine how you would express your question without any . It is generally good advice in academic writing to write concisely and avoid unnecessary words . And it is a little easier to add unnecessary adjectives and adverbs to a sentence than some other parts of speech , so they may deserve some extra scrutiny . But avoiding them altogether ? Nonsense .
There are many policies that publishers imply considering figures . The most common ones are : All figures or tables ( so-called floats ) have to be numbered and get a caption . All floats have to be placed at the top of the page , or at a page solely made of figures and tables . All floats have to be referred in the text by their number . Every float has to appear no sooner than on the page where it is first mentioned ( i.e. if it 's first mentioned on page 5 , it should n't be placed on page 4 , but it can be placed on page 6 ) . Numbering should be consecutive ( i.e. , no 1 then 3 then 2 ) . The first reference to the floats should be consecutive ( with the exception where you basically only " confer it " ( with " cf. " or alike ) . Some journals want you to provide figures and tables separately , some do n't care , some have typesetters that do it themselves , some do n't force captions , some allow in-text placement , etc. . Just check what you have to do . If nothing is said , I recommend complying with the rules above .
How early should I start writing a paper for a conference ? Well , there are different approaches . Some people think " there is this conference coming , I need to write something for it " , others think " I have this nice idea of research , let 's see where I could present it " . In the first case , you might need to start very early , since you need to do all the research , while in the second case , you might just need to start early ... Seriously though , it depends a lot of the content of the paper , the mechanical action of writing it ( i.e. , typing and formatting the text on a computer ) is not what takes long . Is it reasonable to write and do experiments at the same time ? Sure . Even if you ca n't finish your experiments by the deadline , it 's very likely you can reuse a good part of what you 've already written for another conference . How many references should you check ? one professor told me : check 200 use 30 . You do n't check references because you should , but because they are relevant to your research problem . You should cite what you 've read and what you think is important with respect to you work . You should cite the approaches that laid the basis for your own approaches , and explain how you build on them , which assumptions you are challenging . You should also cite the approaches that are similar to yours , and explain why yours is better . There is no magic number : there are excellent papers with only 10 citations , and bad ones with 50 references .
Taking your statements at face value ( and thus imagining something like the others having designed X and evaluated X in a study , while you implemented X based upon their designs ) , this sounds like a typical situation where you should be mentioned for having conducted the implementation/practical construction . This should certainly happen in a presentation of the work , and possibly ( if the paper has an Acknowledgments section and if space allows for it ) also in the written text . Admittedly , this is at the verge participating in the design / idea of the research at hand ( and maybe you even did contribute some detail decisions without realizing ) , so including you as an author depends a bit on the concrete circumstances - and also on the main authors ' personal preference ( but then , so might accusations of gift authorship in this case ) . As for how to bring this up with the authors , you could ask in a somewhat unspecific way such as " I 'm interested in gradually increasing my level of participation in research papers , is there a chance for increasing my contributions and acting as a co-author in the future ? " That way , chances are the main authors will immediately get the idea of adding you one way or another in the current paper , while at the same time , you are not burning any bridges by appearing too demanding .
It is acceptable if ( Edit : and only if ) the abbreviation you are using is common ( in your field or in general ) and there is no risk of confusion . I have two papers whose titles contain the abbreviation ( RD ) which stands for ( Rapid Decay ) . Since it is an acceptable abbreviation in our field these titles are fine . The best way to find out is to check similar papers or titles in your field .
end question
start question
How to find less-competitive faculty positions in the US universities ?
Although ( see my comments ) , I can not recommend this sort of career path , here are two ways for an outsider to determine which positions will be less competitive : Teaching load and pay . If the pay is poor , and the teaching load is high ( say , 4/4 or higher ) , then the position will be less competitive . Look up the average SAT scores ( <URL> ) of American schools to which you are applying . This is a reasonable ( although not perfect ) guide for the quality of the undergraduates that these schools enroll . Schools with lower averages will have less competition for faculty positions . That said , all faculty jobs are highly competitive .
I am not a lawyer and this is not legal/tax advice . I believe you can deduct these as unreimbursed employee expenses . For 2013 , this was Line 21 of Form 1040 Schedule A. Details can be found in <URL> . It lists a number of examples of expenses that would be deductible on this line , including : Research expenses of a college professor Travel related to your work Tools and supplies used in your work Subscriptions to professional journals Dues to professional societies There are a couple of major caveats : Roughly , you can only deduct the amount that exceeds 2 % of your adjusted gross income ( AGI ) . More specifically , you take the amount of your unreimbursed employee expenses , add the rest of your miscellaneous itemized deductions if any ( see Pub . 529 for the list ) , and subtract 2 % of your AGI ; you can deduct the difference . So this may only apply if your research expenses are fairly substantial , or you have other significant miscellaneous itemized deductions . ( Note that miscellaneous itemized deductions do not include the big itemized deductions like charitable donations , state taxes , or mortgage interest . ) You have to itemize deductions to do this . If you do n't have many other itemized deductions , you may be better off just taking the standard deduction . Of course , you can not deduct expenses that were reimbursed . Note that you might also get good answers on <URL> .
Off the top of my head , I can think of American CS faculty who have been supported by grants , contracts , or gifts from each of the following : US funding agencies : DARPA , Department of Defense , Department of Energy , National Instutites of Health , Department of Homeland Security , Office of Naval Research , Army Research Office , Department of Education , NASA , ... Foreign funding agencies ( usually in concert with NSF , for international collaborations ) : Deutsche Forshungsgemeinschaft ( Germany ) , Centre national de la recherche scientifique ( France ) , Israeli Science Foundation , Danish National Research Foundation , ... Private foundations : Sloan , Packard , Simons , Fulbright , Guggenheim , ... Industry : Google , Microsoft , Facebook , Cisco , Boeing , Adobe , NVidia , ...
I do n't think there is a single answer here . Some schools start their interview process in late fall , and other schools do n't even conduct preliminary interviews until the end of February . In addition , there 's always the possibility that nobody accepts their initial offers , in which case they may want to start a new round of interviews . So basically , you can get an interview request until you get a rejection letter . However , I would suspect that the bulk of interview requests go out by late February .
Yes , it 's ethical . Everyone applies to multiple positions . Everyone knows this . At least this is my impression from the US . You do n't say which country , so it 's unclear who might be funding your position if you 're eventually accepted . It 's also unclear if you apply to the university , department , or professor directly . This might have some slight influence on whether you tell A and B about your cross applications . If they are going to be meeting together in committee to decide about applications , it might be better if everyone knows that you 've applied to work with two different professors but really only once to the university . If each professor has sole discretion as to whom they hire , and only they see the application , then it probably does n't matter .
Every school does admissions in a different way , so it 's hard to say , but I 've never heard of anyone using any external services to evaluate transcripts . I 'd say send in your application , and let the chips fall where they may . Although quantities like GPA , GRE scores , etc. might be used as a filter to narrow the applicant pool , what will really get you accepted are 1 ) strong letters , 2 ) successful undergrad research projects , and 3 ) direct contact with a potential advisor at the university . If a professor knows about you and your work and wants you as a student , that will go an incredible way towards getting you admitted no matter what your GPA .
If you have institutional access to the <URL> you can find the definitions given by various standards . Both framework and library are present in several standards . For example , from IEEE Std 610.12-1990 , IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology : software library A controlled collection of software and related documentation designed to aid in software development , use , or maintenance . Types include master library , production library , software development library , software repository , system library . Syn : program library .
I think this is a historical issue more than anything else . Until quite recently , dissertations were usually sent for microfilming , microfiching , or both , for later reproduction and distribution . As a result of this , they needed to be carefully formatted so that they would reproduce correctly when photographed . Thus the requirements for font size , margins , line thickness in graphics , positioning of page numbers , and so on . In recent years , this has not been so important , but that does n't mean universities have completely relaxed the rules regarding formatting . There is definitely an interest in having a consistent " look and feel " for theses from the same institution .
In my experience , a lot of academics tend to shy away from things like a pizza party . I would suggest thinking about things that connect common interests . For example , consider starting a book club on some relatively broad topic of interest , or a group where folks read and comment on each other 's work . These kind of things can be really valuable of they ring together folks from different specalizations . It is always good to get a different perspective . As another example , think about setting up a brown bag lecture series . These can be great ways to get folks out of their offices and talking . Beyond this , I would generaly suggest not trying to set up events that have 150 people invited . Think smaller and more targeted .
In my experience as a grad program director , there is zero truth to this rumor . Funding decisions have nothing to do with the applicant 's age . Nor is having worked outside of academia for years a disadvantage -- we often look very favorably at students who bring with them substantial life experience beyond a college education .
Try these sites to search for a CrossRef DOI : <URL> or <URL>
In my experience in the United States , most professors invite even their graduate students to call them by their given ( first ) name . Junior faculty would be no less invited to familiar address . Whether you say " Hi , Name " or just dive into communication is often a matter of personal style and communication medium -- for example , emailing from one 's phone often has much terser communication , and this is generally understood and not taken amiss . Just because you are addressing somebody by their given name , however , does n't mean you are actually an intimate or a peer . Many senior faculty in the United States will still expect deference by junior faculty ; they will just expect it to be shown by the tone and actions of interaction , rather than merely the formality of address .
<URL> allows you to do this . Search for the journal name and then sort by number of citations .
In US institutions I 'm familiar with , the meeting with the dean serves the following purposes : It is a way for the dean to exert oversight over the hiring process . While the dean is usually not able to tell if the candidate is really as amazing as the department will claim he/she is when they later ask to hire him/her , the dean can at least provide a basic sanity check , filter out obviously unqualified candidates , or detect various red flags indicating that there may be something seriously wrong with the department 's candidate selection mechanism . It is a way for the dean to signal to the department that he/she takes hiring seriously and is involved in the process . This may lead the department faculty to also take it more seriously and approach hiring with more respect and integrity . It is a way for the department and dean to signal to the candidate that they take him/her seriously , to the extent that the dean is making his/her precious time available for the purpose of having the meeting . If the candidate is a hot commodity being sought after by several schools , this can be important . It is an opportunity for the candidate to impress the dean with his/her brilliance . Usually the dean will not be so involved with decision making that this will make much of a difference , but nonetheless , there are subtle ways that the dean being particularly impressed with a candidate ( or conversely , particularly unimpressed ) can be communicated down the hiring chain , and in cases of extreme brilliance/lack thereof this could end up making a difference . It is an opportunity for the dean to impress the candidate with his/her own brilliance . The interview is a two-sided event in which both parties are evaluating each other , so this is part of the package of the university trying to sell itself to an attractive candidate . Again , usually candidates wo n't care so much about the personality of the dean where they are interviewing , but in extreme cases a super-amazing dean can make the school seem materially more attractive , and a super-horrible dean can make the candidate run for their life . Usually none of these effects are very significant , and not meeting the dean almost certainly wo n't make any difference one way or another on the outcome of the interview . The final use for the meeting that I can think of is the only one that actually matters somewhat ( though still not very much ) , which is : In the event that the candidate met with the dean and was later hired , they arrive at a campus where they already met the dean . This contributes to their sense of familiarity with the place ( and presumably confidence that it is well run ) and gives them a feeling that if there is any trouble at the department they know who to go to . A small thing perhaps , but still worth something in my opinion ... Bottom line : in your situation , do n't worry about it . If you end up being hired you will meet the dean sooner or later .
In most cases , there is no preference . The vast majority of graduate programs in the US accept both IELTS and TOEFL . A program that does have a preference will say so in its admission instructions . For example , <URL> : In addition to the required credentials for applications , international students must demonstrate an understanding of English , including the ability to read and write with ease . International students are required to submit scores from or the Test of English as a Foreign Language ( TOEFL ) that meet our minimum requirements . If the TOEFL is not available , we will accept scores from the International English Language Testing System ( IELTS ) . and <URL> : If your first language is not English , you will need to submit an IELTS test score . Please note : this department does not accept TOEFL scores under any circumstances . While <URL> : Stanford does not accept IELTS scores . ( While through <URL> NYU GSAS acccepted TOEFL only , as of Fall 2016 they appear to have <URL> . ) and <URL> : -- Do you accept the IELTS instead of the TOEFL ? No . So you can check if the specific programs you are interested in have a preference .
If you have a 30-45 minute slot ( which is typical for such things ) , you have to make some decisions : Are you a ' buyer ' or a seller ' ? Are you evaluating the candidate , or also trying to convince them that your institution is a good place to work ? In general , you want to do both , but which you 're thinking of emphasizing more will affect how you conduct the interview . Is the meeting before or after the candidate 's talk ? If after , you can do some probing based on the talk . If before , you might choose to ask them about material not in their talk , but in their CV . Is there concern about their area and how it fits with what you 're looking for ? Have you heard anything from your colleagues during other interviews that might prompt you to take a particular line of questioning ? In general , since you ca n't really get a big read on a candidate in a short session , your best bet is to focus one one aspect ( such as one of the above ) , and explore that in detail . One thing I 've also found useful is to ask questions " out of left field " that test the assumptions the candidate 's work rests on : if done right , this allows you to explore the candidate 's larger views about their field and the direction of the research .
I was told that universities in USA are generally better that the ones in Italy . This statement , in its given generality , is false . The US , like most places , has very good schools , ok schools , and a reasonable number of pretty bad schools . If you explicitly are looking for very cheap schools , I would not assume that the remaining selection is necessarily any good , just because it is a " school in the states " . POLIMI is a pretty good school in CS . To be honest , if I had the choice of going either to POLIMI or to a low-ranked US school , I would almost certainly choose POLIMI .
Be aware , too , that the administrative and departmental conceptions of both the privileges and responsibilities of adjuncts vary hugely from place to place . In many places , adjunct faculty do not serve on any committees , and it would be nearly universal that , in particular , they 'd not be on the hiring and tenure committees , and not vote on hiring and tenure . The question of being " allowed " to be an official advisor ( as opposed to the obvious possibilities of informal mentoring ) also surely has different answers different places . In some institutions , it is quite anomalous for " non-tenure-track/tenured faculty " to be allowed to " advise " . You 'd need to ask . At worst , adjunct faculty are marginalized in terms of job security , voice in departmental matters , and are given the least desirable teaching responsibilities , etc. . Hopefully this is not the situation at your institution , but , for example , a move from " research associate " to " adjunct faculty " might be , and might be perceived as , a step down , with unanticipated negative consequences for you . Hard to know without " being on the ground " there in your particular situation . Also , beware that various administrative " official " statements on such things do not match practice , so unofficial , off-the-record information may be essential .
For interdisciplinary researchers , this sort of thing can happen fairly often . For example , if you are a chemist working on ecological applications , you might well have started out in a chemistry department and end up in an ecology department , or vice versa . This happens even more so when dealing with disciplines that may be categorized differently by different institutions : for example , is work on medical devices part of biology and the natural sciences faculty or part of electrical or mechanical engineering ? Generally , however , if it 's going to happen , there is at least some logical trail that you can see how the faculty member got from point A to point B.
Please feel free to edit the answer to improve it . Generally , PhD programs in the US have many more applicants than they can accept . The number of positions is limited by finances ( a department can only afford a limited number of RAs and TAs ) , space and resources ( students often need offices and access to equipment ) , and the ability to supervise the students ( there is a limit to the number of PhD students a faculty member can effectively supervise ) . The admissions committee must decide which of the qualified applicants are most likely to be successful researchers while taking departmental " politics " into consideration . These politics include things like the start up package for Professor X included a funded PhD student and a particular resource is already at capacity . The admissions committee bases its decision on a number of pieces of information including GPA , GRE scores , statement of purpose , references and interviews and for international students TOEFL scores . There is no formula ( e.g. , 6 * GPA +1 * GRE +2 * References + Publications ) by which applicants are ranked , but some universities and/or departments set minimum requirements ( e.g. , GPA over 3.0 or a TOEFL over 85 ) . The admissions committee looks at the entire application to make an informed judgement . This means that being strong in one area can , and does , offset being weak in another area . GPA and major/background When admissions committees consider the GPA they are considering a number of factors including the grades , the strength of the school and major , the types of classes , and trends . An applicant who did poorly in 1st year general electives will be looked at very differently from a student who did poorly in advanced specialized classes . The major is not nearly as important as the relevant classes . For example , an engineering department might look more favourably on a math major who took , and did well on , engineering and applied math electives than an engineering major who took humanities electives . As with everything in the admissions process , the admissions committee is trying to judge the potential for research success . Compensating for a low GPA and major/background mismatch A low GPA can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GPA . Similarly , the SOP and letters of reference can be used to address how your major and background prepare you for research in the field that you are applying to . Strong GRE scores can also help offset a low GPA , and a strong GRE subject test can compensate for mismatches between majors . The best way to offset a low GPA , or a mismatch in area of specialization , is to consider enrolling in a terminal Master 's degree and getting a good GPA in difficult classes . I would like to add that an excellent way of improving a low GPA is by taking a senior thesis course , which is almost always available . Not only is this a proven way of building close ties with one or more faculty members ( who will supervise you in your thesis ) and getting those strong , personalized recommendations , but it could lead to a publication , or at the very least , a technical report published by the department . My senior thesis experience was life-changing : I ended up doing a Ph.D. . BECAUSE it made me realize that I was a better fit for doing research than I might have originally thought . In terms of grades , getting a good grade on the senior thesis course is usually not difficult ( especially since you 're not evaluated on an exam performance ) , assuming you put in the effort . GRE There are a number of limitations to the GRE in terms of predicting research success , but it is the only standardized metric admissions committees have access to . The weight given to the different sections of the GRE and the subject tests can vary substantially among departments . Compensating for low GRE scores A low GRE scores can be offset by a strong research record highlighted in the SOP and letters of reference . The SOP and letters of reference can also be used to make the admissions committee aware of any extenuating circumstances that may have lead to the low GRE scores . A Strong GPA can also help offset low GRE scores . The best way to offset a low GRE is to retake the GRE . The GRE is typically offered year-round for applicants . Upon receiving a lower-than-expected GRE score , you can , and should , immediately register for another GRE exam and begin preparing . Because of the short turn-around time , any preparation you did for the previous GRE should allow you to prepare much more quickly this time . You are technically permitted to take the GRE once every 3 weeks , or 5 times a year . However , repeat testings are detrimental to your schedule , morale , and finances , so it might be best to keep taking the test only until you receive a satisfactory score that you feel will rep
end question
start question
What are useful tips and tricks for collaborating remotely ?
One of the hardest parts of remote collaboration is making sure everyone is on the same page . Agreeing on work flow in advance is critical . To me the most important thing is that everyone has a good understanding of the roles and expectations of the individuals . A good timeline , that is flexible , is also very useful . Agreeing upon software , programming , and writing style issues at the outset is also useful .
It think it does vary from institution to institution . From the perspective of my University ( and from my own job hunting in the UK ) , I would make the following observations . Salary pay points correspond to my University 's interpretation of the national HE pay scale <URL> . " research assistant " implies fixed-term contract work on a research project ( research only ) , where the postholder does not hold a PhD ( and is not close to completing one ) , pay point 23 . " research fellow " implies fixed-term contract work on a research project ( research only ) , with the postholder holding a PhD . Pay point 29 as starting salary ; pay point 37 for a " senior research fellow " , who might also be expected to supervise students and write grant proposals . " lecturer " implies a permanent contract with the postholder expected to conduct research , teach , and write grant proposals . Pay point 37 starting salary ; pay point 44 for a " senior lecturer " , as a career progression and probably managing multiple PhD/PostDocs and bringing in more grant money . " professor " implies a senior academic , probably starting at pay point 51 , managing multiple staff and working on large grants . I 'm sure there are exceptions to this , but it does seem about right for the University where I work and the others I have applied to .
A " fake " or " shady " journal is a low-quality journal that does little or no quality control . They are often called " predatory " because they prey on people who are under a lot of pressure to publish , charging high author fees for promises of quick publication . ( Since they do little , if any , peer review , the time from submission of a paper to publication is often very quick in these journals ) . They often engage in deceptive practices to make themselves appear legitimate , such as : Pretending to be affiliated with a reputable professional society Claiming an " impact factor " when they do not have one , or when they have an " impact factor " from some entity other than Thomson Reuters ISI Listing important academics on their editorial board , when these people never agreed to serve in this capacity . Publishing in one of these journals can be very damaging to your academic career . At best , it shows that you do n't know what journals are considered reputable in your field ; at worst , it makes you look like you are trying to " get " publications without doing the work required to publish in a reputable , high-quality journal . An academic librarian named Jeffrey Beall keeps a list of open-access <URL> and <URL> that he considers to be " predatory . " His lists are quite well-known - you may hear people refer to " Beall 's List " when talking about predatory journals . Between the growth of open-access and the Internet making it possible for literally anyone to start a " journal , " these " journals " have been popping up at an alarming rate . The NY Times even ran a <URL> about it recently .
Talk to someone at a media relations , public relations , or press office at your university . Most universities will have folks who work in this area ; they are the experts and have a ton of experience , and you should take advantage of them . They will likely be glad to help . Here are some tips that I have learned from public relations folks : Identify your message . What 's the takeaway lesson ? Can you write it in one short sentence , in a form understandable to the average person on the street ? Take a lot of time to craft this carefully . Then , your entire press release should be centered around supporting this message . Look for three facts or points that support the message . Numbers and statistics are very powerful . Stay on-message ! I can not emphasize this enough . Everything you talk about should be focused on your message . Avoid the temptation for digressions or tangents . Yes , you are a witty raconteur and can wax on enthusiastically for hours about your work , but this is not the place for it . Avoid unnecessary details ; give a spare answer that provides just enough for folks to understand the message . Yes , I know that you and your fellow researchers are fascinated by all of the details of your experimental methodology , the alternative hypotheses you considered and rejected , the details of why your finding is correct , your calculations , and so on . Sorry , but the average person on the street does n't care . Your top priority is to explain your bottom-line finding , why the average person should care , and maybe a teeny bit of something to give some intuition about why your finding is true ( enough to make it sound plausible to an average person ) . Edit ruthlessly . You want as many eyes on it as possible , and ideally people who are not involved with your project . Lean heavily on your press office . In many universities , the press office will help you draft a press release . They 'll talk to you informally , ask you a bunch of questions , and then work with you to write a press release . If they 're available to do it , grab the opportunity ; it can be very helpful . Brainstorm a list of about 10-20 questions that you expect reporters might ask you . Next , for each question , draft a candidate answer . Your answers should be concise ( at most a few sentences ) and simple ; and , the chance to throw in an analogy or fact or figure can help , too . When you are talking to a reporter on the phone , have this list in front of you . This way , when they ask you a question , you can refer to the list and give your honed , crisp answer -- or at least , you have it to refer to if you need it . The reporter will never know . Remember that the purpose of talking to a newspaper reporter is not just to educate them about your project . It is also to supply them with as many pithy quotes that they can use in their article . The more quotable you are , the more likely it is that you will be quoted . They will be listening for those great quotes . Take the opportunity to brainstorm in advance a few short quotes , and make sure to throw them into every conversation with every journalist . Read a bunch of newspaper articles in advance so you can see what kinds of statements tend to get quoted . The public relations folks may also be able to offer media training . If you can get the chance to take a media training course , take it ! This is especially important if you might be on TV , where you have to make every second count . There are some powerful but non-obvious techniques that they can teach you .
I 'm trying to coin a phrase : interior point maximum . Well , the phrase already exists : it means that the function you are trying to maximize which is defined on some closed , bounded interval [ a , b ] does not have its maximum value at either a or b but rather at some point c somewhere strictly in between . Most functions one studies in calculus have interior point maxima , though there are obvious exceptions : especially if the function is increasing its maximum is at b , and if it is decreasing its maximum is at a. Perhaps this is because the methods of calculus only speak to interior point maxima : the basic observation is that if the function is differentiable , an interior maximum must occur at a stationary point , i.e. , for which the instantaneous rate of change is zero . ( Famously , the converse is not true . ) What 's the point of this math lesson ? It 's this : when we step outside of math class we tend to completely forget about this phenomenon and try to stare off into space and figure out which of the two extreme points , a and b , is better . But in many real-world situations it is actually pretty obvious that the maximum must be at an interior point . To me at least , the current question is a case of this . If you never collaborate , then you never benefit from anyone else 's expertise . In research we almost never do exactly what we want : rather we collect various pieces of what we want to do , and then have to make hard choices about how and when to combine those pieces into published work . If you can find someone else whose pieces are complementary to your pieces , then you both benefit tremendously form collaboration , because academia ( justly ) rates complete solutions more than twice as highly as half solutions . This is , to me , the best argument for collaboration , and it already shows that " no collaboration " is not going to be your optimal choice . Another argument for collaboration , not nearly as good , is that it allows you to increase your multiplicity : in a given year , maybe you can write one paper all by yourself , or maybe you can write one fourth of four papers and put your name on all of them . In some academic cultures , depending upon how you play it , you will get more credit with the second option . However , there is no inherent advantage to this -- in other words , there is no added value to those outside your circle of collaborators -- so this is really rather specious . ( But it works , to a certain extent ... unfortunately . ) Another legitimate benefit of collaboration is that your collaborators get to know you and know your skills . I have several collaborators that do n't write as many papers as I do and are perhaps not as high-profile in the community as I am . I would n't have thought they were anything special if I had n't worked with them -- worked with them because they brought to the table key pieces that I could use to advance my work . Whenever anyone asks me about these people , I say how great they are . If you always collaborate , then people begin to wonder whether you can in fact write a paper / complete an experiment / do one unit of substantial academic work by yourself . If you always collaborate with the same people , and especially if they are more senior than you and/or have other papers without you , then a lot of hard-nosed academics [ including me ] are going to suspect that you are not the brains of the operation and eventually wonder whether you may not have been gifted coauthorship . The details of this must be entirely field dependent , but I am in a field in which senior people usually do n't get added as coauthors unless their intellectual contribution was decisive [ in many cases , this means most decisive ] , so if I see someone with a sequence of strong papers all of which are joint with their eminent thesis advisor and no others , then I really need to hear their thesis advisor describe specifically and cogently the value added by their student . ( In some fields collaboration is not an option , it 's a reality . But this seems to nullify the question : if a = b , you can maximize the function . ) So it seems clear that it 's an interior point maximum : it will be best for your research if you collaborate x % of the time for some 0 < x < 100 . As with all interior maxima , one way to figure out x is : take a rough guess as to what you think a good value of x would be , and then explore the nearby space . Definitely do at least one collaborative work and at least one solo work and then evaluate how they went . At the risk of ruining my meme , I will say though that in this case the amount of collaboration is less important -- if you make it safely between 0 and 100 % -- than the type of collaboration . As above , you want to choose collaborations that qualitatively augment your work . You do not want to " trade papers " or get involved in projects just to have your name on one more paper . Definitely make sure that you are bringing something to the table whenever you collaborate : you real
A systematic literature review is never a bad thing . At the worst , you have a large database of literature that you can cite in future work . as well as a feeling for where the " low-hanging fruit " might lie . It will also give you a framework on which to build and grow your literature collection over time . So whether or not you are able to publish it , a literature review is a good thing ( within reason -- do n't spend six months doing nothing but reading literature papers ! ) .
It 's better to put what is on the copyright page of the book in question . If you do n't have it , then you may have to punt , but wherever you can use the full reference , you should . Edited to add : The goal in a citation is to allow your reader to find the exact work that you used , so you need to be as precise as you can . If there are different editions , etc , they may have different publication locations , so make sure you described the physical volume you have precisely . If you do n't have the physical version , then be sure to give your reader 50 years from now the ability , as best you can , to track it down .
I 've not heard the term before , but the description seems clear enough from their website : Participants submitting proceedings-published posters/demos are required to submit a short paper of 2 pages describing the poster/demo content ... If accepted , this short paper will be published in the proceedings of the conference . In other words , they will publish an associated short paper in the proceedings as well as displaying the poster . This is distinguished from the other option for a paper , which will be displayed , but not have anything published in the proceedings .
I agree with Seteropere completely , " Network Science " is a very broad subject . I work with the theory of " dynamic networks " which involves a lot of graph theory , complex networks , and time series analysis , but also in protocol design for Delay Tolerant Networks which is another application you might like . Take a look at this website , <URL> it has plenty of links that I rate very highly . Including links to Alain Barrat 's work ( check out <URL> it has some wonderful illustrations of dynamic networks ) . There is also a conference devoted specifically to Temporal and Dynamic Networks <URL> Here are some of the tips I sent to a recent new student in our department , most are free in that there are no paywalls : Look at the references on the most recent papers you are reading , and also look at the conferences and journals that the authors are involved in by visiting their personal websites . This will tell you where people are currently submitting to . There are some websites devoted to finding conferences too , but do n't rely on them . Some examples : <URL> <URL> Find a conference you like the look of , look at their calls for papers , and past proceedings to see what they are asking for . Mailing lists ! Sign up to ( but do n't spam ) well known mailing lists . Again this will be dependent on the area you are interested in . In computer networking the biggest mailing list for calls for papers is probably the IEEE TCCC mailing list , <URL> . Social networks . Sign up to Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin / etc. . A lot of Phd Students , PostDocs , lecturers , research groups , and conferences are on Twitter . When you find someone or something you like , look for it on social networking sites , look who is following , what they are talking about , and get involved . Good luck .
The knowledge in the articles is for all to use , what you ca n't do is to copy text . There is a fine line if the article contains e.g. code listings and you use a fragment , or if you take pseudocode and rewrite it in your favorite programming language , that might be a copyright violation . I very much doubt they 'd go after you , in any case . I 'd say that citing the articles is very good practice , somebody ( even yourself in a year or so ! ) trying to understand the code later will thank you .
paper = article : In the academic meaning of the words , papers and articles refer to the same thing : a published piece of writing . The term is used for journal papers or journal articles , which means they have been published by a journal , but also for less traditional publications , including self-publication ( " Dr. Who just published a great paper on the intricacies of time travel on his webpage " ) and e-print repositories such as arXiv ( " check out the latest paper by Galileo on arXiv , that guy has mad ideas ! " ) . Some journals have different categories of " articles " , and differentiate between letters , communications , reports , reviews , and full papers ( sometimes abbreviated as just " papers " ) . In usage I have seen , paper ( or article ) used as a generic term covers all of those : you would say , for example , that " letters and full papers are two types of articles " . A preprint ( more commonly used without the hyphen ) refers to the distribution , in advance of formal publication , of something that will be published in print . The preprint may differ from the final publication . Preprint status does not always indicate that the work has been formally accepted for publication . It just means the authors intend to publish it in a more formal venue ( journal , book , etc. ) but wanted to distribute by other means beforehand ( preprints used to be distributed to colleagues as photocopies , but are now mostly circulated by email or repositories ) . A manuscript is , in the New Oxford American Dictionary 's words , " an author 's text that has not yet been published " . Any piece of writing that you have not published in any way ( but intend to ) is a manuscript . A draft is the same as a manuscript , except that it insists on the unfinished state of the manuscript . Summarizing , I could say : Here 's the draft I 've been working on , please amend it with your corrections . Once we have done this final round of revision , I will upload the manuscript to the editor 's website , and we can start circulating it as a preprint to colleagues whom you think may be interested . Once it is accepted and published , we 'll just send them the published version of the paper for their records .
The responsibilities of a programme committee member and a mere reviewer could easily be the same , or differ . All depends on the particular conference/workshop setup . E.g. , in computer science/AI there the difference is mainly a result of the venue size . Large first-tier conferences , such as e.g. , IJCAI have a four layer programme committee structure . Here PC chairs , the top layer , govern the whole process from recruiting the various types of PC members , through conflict-of-interest handling , bidding on submissions , to notification and proceedings composition and publication . For such conferences the PC chairs recruit Senior PC members who are responsible for larger batches of submissions , or small sub-areas and report to PC chairs . For some conferences , the SPCs recruit regular PC members who in turn report to them and are responsible for the reviews . Regular PC members normally do the reviews themselves , but it 's relatively common that they sometimes " subcontract " the job to other reviewers they recruit . These lowest level reviewers would do the review and get credit too , but the actual PC member is ultimately responsible for the review and the discussions among the PC members . Upon completing the review and discussion phases , SPCs give final recommendation for acceptance/rejection and possibly write meta-review summarizing discussion to each submission . The PC chairs would distribute the notifications and handle the proceedings and programme schedule composition . Now , for mid-size conferences , or workshops the senior PC members layer is usually missing and regular PC members report directly to PC chairs and take over the tasks of SPCs for large conferences . The mechanics of sub-reviewing stays the same . For small-size conferences and workshops , there are virtually no administrative tasks left for the PC members , so they do just the reviewing ( possibly recruit sub-reviewers ) and the PC chairs finally decide about acceptance and rejection of the individual submissions on the basis of the received recommendations . What I describe above is regular scheme of things in " applied computer science " .
I think I have a similar process to the one described by Artem ( apart from the popular talk , which I never had the opportunity to do ) . In any case , I never write a script . Actually , for my first talk in English , during my first year of PhD , I learned the talk by heart , which was terrible , and made me finish the talk in 12 minutes instead of the 20 minutes . However , I try to carefully prepare my transitions , especially between different parts of the talk . I find it particularly annoying when a speaker finishes a part with a blank , moves to the next slide , and says something like " OK , next section now " . Moreover , I usually include in a transition a brief summary of the key points of the previous section , and the motivation to go to the next section , which ensures that I do n't forget any important point . About how early should the preparation be ready , it depends on the kind of talks . For a 20/25 minutes conference talk presenting a paper , I usually already have a pretty clear idea of what I want to present and how to structure it ( since I wrote the paper ) , so I start the slides about a week before the conference , have a decent draft 2 or 3 days before ( i.e. the final number of slides , the correct titles ) , and the final version the day before . As Artem 's said , after a while , you can project pretty accurately the duration of a talk from your slides , so there is no need to repeat to make sure you are in time . For a 45/50 minutes seminar-kind talk , it 's a bit trickier , because usually the audience is not the same as the one at a conference , and it 's harder not to bore them . So I start preparing the slides about a month before , but only to get the outline , and I start working on the talking part , not so much the slides , to try to find nice ways to present the ideas ( such as nice examples , nice analogies ) . So , in summary , to answer your questions : It is not very common ( I actually do n't know anyone who does it ) . It can help if the speaker is very nervous , and tends to forget a lot of important things ( which often disappears with experience ) . It depends on the experience , and the ability to evaluate your presentation . If you feel very confident , you can start preparing the presentation the night before . But in general , I 'd say that something between a week before and the day before is good . EDIT : As aeismail mentioned , my answer is quite subjective , and just describe what works for me and for some people I know . However , just one point I would add , concerning the " awkward pauses " : I think that the quality of my presentations has tremendously increased when I stopped preparing my presentation around my slides , but the other way around . So I dropped all sentences like " this slide presents ... " , " on this slide , we have the definition ... " , etc. . Actually , I even try not to say the words that are on the slides . I do n't know if my presentation are better for the audience , but at least , I feel much more comfortable with them .
It varies very widely depending on individual faculty , departmental , and institutional culture , norms , and rules . For example , many faculty at my institution live in a city two hours away and only come to campus twice a week for classes and meetings . Faculty performance at my school is measured by lines on the CV , so one can argue that not going to school is a more productive use of time if you have a home office . Meanwhile , while in Japan , I noted that some faculty had to punch timecards that showed their daily attendance . There , faculty performance seemed to be measured by the appearance if diligence rather than actual productivity . On the extreme other end , adjunct faculty in the USA may not even have an office ( or library privileges ) to even have office hours .
As Nate notes in his comment , you should talk with your University 's Office of Technology Commercialization , Intellectual Property Office , Office of Technology Transfer , Office of Industrial Programs , or equivalent ( just to give a few key words to search for ) . However , you should be able to just talk with a potential industrial collaborator after signing a mutual non-disclosure agreement that includes the restriction not to exploit each others IP disclosed under the agreement for commercial gain without further negotiation . These kinds of NDA are common in work between industry and academia , and they allow for discussion to begin without everything having to be patented ahead of time . Your university 's industrial office ( as above ) ought to be able to help you draft the NDA . Do n't do it without the support of your university 's attorneys .
First of all the term partner is a bit confusing here , are you talking about course-mates or colleagues ? Otherwise ask yourself whether or not you want to be associated with forgery , regardless of whether or not you intend to enjoy the fruits of the action . As an analogy , would it be OK to help with forging counterfeit money just because you do n't intend to use the fake money to buy anything with it ? Then there are different levels of taking distance from the act ; you can either : blow the whistle on the data-forgery , which is what I would strongly advocate for if this work is supposed to be published on a peer-review journal , or just ask to have your name removed from the report if it 's just coursework . That way you avoid having a fallout with your " partners " and still maintain some level of plausible deniability . The first option is important in the case of a scientific publication , because data forgery on a publication is not only cheating and ethically wrong , but also is potentially harmful to others who might try on to build on your research results . That aspect is obviously not as important if the paper in question is just a hand-in assignment for some course at the uni . The second option is n't really the most ethical alternative , and might still be problematic ( e.g. if someone questions why you insist on being removed from authors list ) . Bottomline is you ca n't have your cake and eat it at the same time .
You 're asking multiple questions at once , so let 's start with : What are the differences between a research paper and a patent There are many , but briefly a research paper has the purpose of communicating research findings to the relevant scientific community and the general public . Patents are legal documents used to prevent other people from commercializing the process or devices they describe . Research papers typically report results of a scientific process , whether experimental or not , while patents describe processes and devices along with their respective intended applications . Patents are typically very open-ended , not unlike a very long " future works " - section of an academic paper . The strategy is to cover a maximum of possible usages for the technology . it is not peer reviewed That is correct , peer review is a strategy used by researchers to filter , improve , and curate scientific literature . For patents , the review is driven by the legal requirements only . A major point is absence of overlap with existing patents and other publicly available material * . In some regions , a minimal demonstration of how the process/device works is expected by patent offices , but it 's not the same as peer review . Is it allowed to publish patent and then paper ? Yes , it 's the other way that 's problematic because as stated above , if you ( or someone else ) published a paper about your process or device you can not patent it anymore . Most journals are interested in novel results and all ( legitimate ) journals do n't want to re-publish existing literature but the fact that the processes are patented is not an issue . As stated in my first paragraph , both documents should have very little overlap . * On that subject , see the entertaining if not entirely historically accurate <URL>
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
Positive early signs : you helped write the job specification ; one or more of the selection panel advised you to apply for the vacancy ; they take up your references ; you hear through the grapevine that members of your target department have been asking around , about you , after your interview ; you get an additional interview , where the main topics of discussion are pay &amp; other benefits , when you could start , and what facilities you 'd require in post . Regarding formal paperwork , : all applicants at our place are required to show eligibility for employment , at time of interview . So there 's no additional requests for paperwork between final interview and job offer .
Most programs I 've ever heard of do n't randomly assign professors - but the typical system in the US I 'm aware of has each professor required to teach X number of credits . The department has requirements for what class must be taught ( like standard intro classes , courses required for the major , etc ) , as well as the opening for a variety of specialty courses ( often called " electives " ) - but the core courses have to be taken up first . While departments differ , it seems the most common system is one where professors pick the classes they will teach ( sometimes by seniority or department rank getting their first pick , sometimes by some other method ) . The natural order of things is that it 's easier to teach a class the second time than it is to teach it the first time ( since you already have so much material prepared and you have had some practice now ) , so professors naturally end up teaching many of the same classes year after year . However , most departments have comings and goings nearly every semester - retirements , people leaving , sabbaticals , medical leave , changing course load amounts ( buying out of teaching , becoming a department chair , not being the chair anymore , winning a big grant , having a big grant run out ) . Thus things are constantly in flux , so even if you really , really wanted the same courses taught by the same professors every semester - you ca n't have it , it is n't possible . There is a downside to having things static , even when you somehow manage to have so much stability that it 's possible . Some examples : Many professors get comfortable with the material enough that they do n't make large updates , and it can get stale and out of date over time ( both materially and in method used ) . Professors , being human beings , get bored of saying the same thing over and over and their excitement , passion , and patience can begin to wear thin even with classes they once enjoyed . Some students are n't a good fit with some professors , and if a required class is always taught by a professor they do n't get along with this may interfere with academic progress . Professors can lose sight - or just not have a good idea to begin with - what the goal of teaching some material actually is . Most programs have courses that build on each other , like Introduction - > Research Methods - > Stats - > Advanced Research Methods . If you only teach stats and do n't ever run an advanced class , are you sure you are teaching the stats students will need - and are you emphasizing applications that best prepare them for the advanced material ? If you teach a Calculus I class , are you making sure students get all the groundwork they need for Calculus II ? I 've had students tell me " the Professor assumed we all had JavaScript in the previous class and designed the whole class around it , but half of us had never seen it before ! " - with not very encouraging results . However , there are downsides to moving people around a lot too : The first time is always the hardest . No one knows what to expect , every question asked will be one you might not have answered before , the teacher 's idea of pacing and time required to complete assignments will basically be wild guesses , etc. . Sometimes someone is asked to teach a class because no one else is available . I talked with a visiting academic who was a statistician , and he said in his first semester they came to him and said , " Hey , have you ever used C++ before ? " He said , " Well , I guess a little bit in undergrad ... " And so they said , " Great , do n't have anyone else to teach this required class - will you teach a C++ class for us ? " So he just had to figure it out as he went . It is n't ideal , but the alternative : no class offered that semester , which may mean students ca n't take required key classes or they will just miss out on learning important material entirely . Sometimes everyone just has the make the best of a non-ideal situation - come to think of it , that 's what most of us have to do most of the time ! In the end , there is a first time for everyone . Experienced professors had to teach a class for the first time too . Sometimes this can even be a positive experience for everyone , if the professor and the student choose to handle it that way . One of the hardest things about teaching people is when you 've forgotten what it was like to not know . You can all learn together , and it can be easier to have empathize with students confusion and anticipate their questions when you are confused and have questions too ! The job of a teacher is n't always to be an expert bestowing their grand accumulated wisdom , but instead sometimes they are just a guide and skilled companion to help you through difficult territory . ... and sometimes neither of you want to be there , but it 's a required course and the department is making them teach it so you suck it up and move on . :)
end question
start question
Are pure mathematicians at U.S. universities expected to win research grants ?
At my large R1 state university in the U.S. , it might be impossible to get tenure without having an active grant at the time , even with an otherwise excellent record , since mathematics faculty disinterested ( or hostile to whatever the specialty or person in question might be ) would use this as grounds for doubting the quality . After all , supposedly , all the best people are funded . Supposedly , endorsement by the NSF ( or NSA ) is an external , objective test of quality . This is certainly a convenient assumption for arguments in certain directions . EDIT : and since a strong super-majority is needed for a " positive " tenure vote , even irrational ranting can sway otherwise uninformed or disinterested people to scuttle the vote . Issues of external funding are apparently even more identified with research activity by engineers ( and experimental scientists ) , who often dominate the college-wide tenure ( and promotion ) committees . That is , it is sometimes apparently unimaginable that a person would be doing research without a grant . Further , at my university , in other hard-science departments , often large grants are allowed to " buy out " faculty from any teaching at all . This is rare in my math department . EDIT : thus , in the minds of some engineers , " teaching " is stigmatized , since in their own depts it 's only the disenfranchised who have to do any of it . And then there 're the wildly different paper-count standards for experimental science/engineering versus mathematics . The literal " funding of research " usually is less critical , apart from the expense of travelling to conferences , and extra summer salary .
As aeismail says , there 's no single answer . As with most things in life , it 's hard to know when you 're " ready " to do something . The best way is to jump in when you feel like you do n't need to prep any more , and then be prepared to shore up weaknesses as you spot them . Over time , you 'll learn how to prepare yourself to embark on a new research topic : some people like to start solving a problem first , and then return to the literature when they get stuck . Some people like to read a few key papers to get a sense of the main open problems and techniques , and then go off and play . The only important thing is that you do something , and not just wait on the sidelines for a mythical feeling of " readiness " to emerge . Be fearless , like a 2 year old who does n't know enough to be afraid :)
In the United States , there is a lot of opportunity for flexibility in scheduling graduation , assuming the faculty member has sufficient funding and motivation to keep the student around . In most cases , however , the student would likely be served better not by delaying their graduation but instead by arranging for a transitional period as a postdoc with their same advisor . In many cases , the cost of a postdoc is often not terribly different than a graduate student ( higher salary is offset by lack of tuition ) , and there is typically little difficulty converting grant money from one to the other . As a postdoc , however , there is no longer a question of graduation and thesis hanging over the former student 's head , and they can be more free to focus instead on publication , networking , giving talks , and other things that will help to better position them for applying for academic positions .
To answer your specific questions , schools are generally trying to admit the best applicants ( who will choose to come ) , not just a group of people of the right size over a certain threshold . So if an international student appears to be a stronger candidate ( evaluated the same way any other applicant would be ) , the international applicant is likely to be preferred . Graduate students are generally funded based on packages that do n't take into account where the student 's from , so it 's not generally more expensive . ( International students may be less likely to accept because the funding is less likely to enough , but that 's no reason not to admit them . ) Finally , why would international applicants be any less trustworthy or appropriate than domestic ones ?
I do not view it as generally unethical to refer to these solutions . This situation is more complex than I think some other answers have admitted . Here is a list of claims : In an ideal world , the point of homework is for the student to learn the material . In a perfectly ideal world , we would not need to grade homework , because students would do it on their own to master the material . They might refer to other people 's solutions to see if theirs are correct , and that would be fine . Experience shows this world is not perfect . Students will often skip ungraded homework , and their learning and exam grades will suffer . So instructors assign homework for a grade . But this is n't because the grade is really important : it 's because we want the students to do the homework and learn the material ! Some students then get the idea that the grade is the real goal of the homework , and simply copy their assignment from others . Professors often find this unacceptable . One important point that others have answered is that , if you are going to turn in the homework , what you turn in should reflect your own understanding of the assignment . But , equally importantly , it is important to let yourself struggle with problems for a while before looking up the answer . That is the only way to really learn how to solve problems . Most professors accept that the internet exists - we know you can look up other people 's answers . It used to be that fraternities had giant files of old homework and exam answers for this purpose ( maybe they still do ) . And students study in groups all the time - research shows study groups can dramatically increase learning . So getting help is not a bad thing . But you do n't want to get help too quickly . Make a genuine effort to answer the problems yourself first . If you find that you are looking up the answers to all the problems ( even the easiest ones ) , then something is off - try going for more tutoring , or studying more before doing the homework . If you find that you occasionally need to look up one of the most difficult problems , that 's perfectly normal ( but it still would n't excuse directly copying the solution into your homework , of course ) . Of course , the usual caveats apply : some professors may specifically tell you not to collaborate with anyone or use any other resources . But most professors know that students usually collaborate with each other on homework ( e.g. study groups ) and know that students can look up answers using other resources . We have no problem with that , as long as each student 's submission reflects their own understanding in the end .
The purpose of adding words like " novel " and " innovative " is to weed out proposals that may be poorly researched and thus copying others or or involve repeating other works in a slightly different setting ( or equivalent ) . The phrasings makes rejecting proposals easier since it provides a critieria ( one among many ) against which it can be judged . Funding agencies are also keen to see their funding go to research that can be judged to contribute " significant " results . My experience says that what constitutes " novel " and " innovative " is difficult to assess in detail . In my field , environmental/earth science , some themes become " fashionable " or hot and signals these aspects , or rather absence means less likelihood to receive funding . These themes include finite element modelling ( 70s ) , acid rain ( 70s/80s ) and climate change ( currently ) . This can be seen as a communal will or interest to steer research in certain ways and so showing you can significantly contribute to these goals was/is more or less necessary to provide you with a good chance for obtaining funding . So to define " novel " and " innovative " will be difficult . And , as a side point , your research either is or is not " novel " or " innovative " , there are no degrees . You need to come up with ideas that are truly new ( testing new grounds ) or which promise results that are significantly advancing science but more importantly , you need to convince the reviewers in the funding agency about your case . This means to avoid " more of the same " proposals , to be sure your idea has not been worked on before ( know your field ) . A book , I strongly recommend for all is Friedland , A. , Fold , C.L. , 2009 . Writing Successful Science Proposals , Second Edition . Yale Univ. . Press
No University has <URL> to spend on subscription fees for all existing paywalled research articles ( e.g. , <URL> ) . As a result , some of their faculty and student resort to free alternatives SciHub/LibGen/emailing colleagues / <URL> . Many universities located in developing countries <URL> . If you need a particular name , <URL> : When he needs new books to teach one of his courses , Professor Ibrahim Abdullah orders at least two from abroad : one for himself , one to give to the university library . If he needs scholarly articles , he writes to his friends overseas and asks them to send copies , since the university can not afford journal subscriptions . I 'm not sure if paying for paywalls is the rule or the exception amongst universities , statistics welcome . Some <URL> <URL> showing the location of Sci-Hub users ( at least the location of the machine that makes the final request ) : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In my opinion and experience , it is relatively rare for an MSc thesis to yield truly original research resulting in a paper . The primary goal of a MSc thesis is to teach you important research skills : come up with a general idea of what to do , researching literature , coming up with a specific question that you want to address , performing research ( computations , fieldwork , lab experiments ) , and finally writing it down in a thesis . If you successfully complete this cycle , I think your MSc thesis is a success . If the thesis , after some editing , is original enough to end up as a journal paper this is a big bonus .
As some comments note , answers will vary dramatically by field , but it seems better to have a bunch of answers for different fields to one question , instead of having people ask the same question a dozen times for different fields . For math , if you 're talking about a completed , submitted paper that has n't been published yet ( say , because it 's still being refereed ) , you should feel free to talk about it ; the submission date proves your claim on the result , so it ca n't really be stolen at this stage . ( Also , you already put it on the arXiv , so it 's already public , right ? ) Suppose you 're still writing the paper , but the results are completely solid . There are good reasons to tell people about the result : you may be want to discuss ideas for how to build on your paper , you may want to give people a head 's up that the theorem is coming -- say , so they can use it to prove things themselves , and you may want to establish a partial claim on the result in case someone else is doing the same thing . There are also good reasons not to tell people : even though you 're really awfully sure the result is solid , there might still be mistakes ; routinely announcing results well in advance of the paper can negatively affect your reputation ; someone could use your ideas to write their own paper faster . ( There 's an interesting phenomenon where once people know a theorem is true , it becomes easier to solve ; sometimes a problem is open for a long time , and then abruptly solved multiple times in a short period . ) Taking these together , I 'd advise not to announce a result until the paper 's finished unless there 's a strong reason to do so . This is particularly true early in your career , when it 's more likely that you 'll mistakenly believe a proof was really-definitely-totally finished . ( I was given this advice when I was in grad school , and while I have n't followed it 100 % of the time , I 've never regretted following it . )
In my experience as a grad program director , there is zero truth to this rumor . Funding decisions have nothing to do with the applicant 's age . Nor is having worked outside of academia for years a disadvantage -- we often look very favorably at students who bring with them substantial life experience beyond a college education .
Most master 's degrees are not fully funded ( or even funded at all ) in the United States . Funding varies by of study field . Some fields , such as business , will rarely offer funding , while others are more likely to . Perhaps you have been looking at PhD programs in math and science - these do tend to offer funding . But that is the exception , rather than the general rule . At the master 's level , funding is more rare even in these fields .
The best thing to do is probably to contact the student administration of your university . They can make certified copies of your diploma ( and presumably also grade transcripts , etc. ) . You can also contact the Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs at <URL> , which are also authorised to make certified copies . However , it may be that " ordinary " photocopies suffice , if you tell them that you can show the originals later if necessary . You would have to check with the admissions office though , I do not know about the situation in the US .
" Research intensive " and " research extensive " are obsolete terms from the Carnegie classification of research universities . They are terrible , confusing terms that should never have been introduced ( see page 5 of <URL> ) . The idea was that " research extensive " means there 's an extensive research program covering many areas at a high level , which " research intensive " means there 's just a narrowly focused , intensive research program in certain areas . Basically , extensive is supposed to be better than intensive . Of course the problem is that this really is n't what they sound like . For example , most people would say Harvard is a research intensive university , but in this classification it 's not . Because of massive confusion , the Carnegie classification was <URL> to use other terms , but the old terms still persist . One reason is that some people just got used to them and found it hard to develop new habits ; another is that every time the classification changes , some universities end up moving to a less prestigious category than they used to be in , so they have a strong incentive to describe themselves using the old terms .
I would say yes . I have done so from when I received my first grant/stipend . I ceased listing once I received a permanent position ( or thereabouts ) and started getting multiyer grants from national sources . As long as you think adding it shows that you are active and competitive ( well merited ) in terms of receiving the trust to receive money it will be a good thing . You need to constantly evaluate the possible pros and cons of adding informaton to your cv , including funding . I would imagine that being in a soft money situation , listing funding will only be a positive . But , be aware that gaps in your funding stream may become question marks unless they are explicitly explained .
In my case ( pure mathematics ) it is about two or three weeks of hectic activity before the October 1 NSF deadline once every 2-3 years . I can not say that I do nothing else during that time but it definitely distracts me quite a bit . What helps is that we ( I and a few my colleagues and friends ) often apply for collaborative research grants ( so we have well-established separation of labor when writing , which increases the speed noticeably ) . The reports are easy if you have something real to show . I would say it takes me at most a couple of hours to write mine . Recommendation letters and reviews usually take much more time .
Absolutely ! There are a number of talks that I 've given that are n't related to my own research that I consider to be some of my most influential talks . In particular , I think talks about academia in general , or about the publication system , or recently , a talk about open access and open science . Taking the time to speak to younger academics about things about which you are passionate ( like for me , preprint servers like arxiv.org and biorxiv.org ) is very important . I have also had the opportunity to give a few talks not even at academic institutions that I consider to be worthy of ' academic credit ' . Specifically , I spoke at TEDMED a few years ago , talking about the medical education system , which you can see here : <URL> and also at an event called Pint of Science ( pintofscience - podcasts from me and many others here : <URL> ) . I 've been asked more about these talks at interviews than any others ! I think especially in a world where all academics applying for jobs/tenure have excellent CVs , having some ' non-academic ' stuff on there can help you stand apart - and show another dimension of you that folks could be interested in .
I 'm going to disagree with Oswald . In my experience , undergraduate students do not often prove new things in pure math . I would n't even say master 's theses often contain new results . There are a few main reasons for this . Firstly , pure mathematics operates at a level that is not very accessible for most undergraduates , even those doing research . Undergraduates doing research are often well out of their depth and holding on for dear life . This can mostly be attributed to just not having enough time to get up to speed with what is considered modern mathematics . Most courses in mathematics at the undergraduate level are about math from 50-100 years ago ( if not older ) . Secondly , undergraduates do not often have the mathematical experience to know what the right plan of attack is when faced with an abstract and new problem and they may not know how to check their work thoroughly to make sure there are no major oversights or blunders . A lot of mathematics involves lateral thinking and it takes a lot of time to build those connections . The hardest part of a pure math PhD ( in my opinion ) is learning how to attack a problem no one has considered before . Standard techniques that others used may not be useful at all to you for one reason or another . An undergraduate wo n't have the creativity to navigate this kind of issue because the kind of creativity that is needed comes with a lot of experience . Even when an undergraduate student thinks they 've proved something , the nuances of their argument likely will not be apparent to them . ( This is especially true when it comes to functional analytic/measure theoretic arguments - the devil is in the details . ) Thus a proposed proof may not even be close to being right . Lastly , not many undergraduates in pure math do research because the gap they have to overcome between coursework and modern mathematics is pretty substantial . Those that make contributions in pure math are those that are very , very talented and have very thorough backgrounds ( backgrounds that rival master 's / PhD students ) . Undergraduates in pure math are not expected to make contributions . That is not what research is about for them . Introducing an undergraduate to research serves a couple of different purposes : it introduces them to more advanced topics and it gives them a taste of what research is like so that they can make an informed decision about whether or not graduate school is right for them . As such , the theses are more like surveys of a specialized topic in mathematics . There is a lot of independent learning involved and there may be some unique examples , insights , and connections contained therein . They may not be presenting " original " work , but poster sessions are there to present what they 've learned regardless of whether or not it was original . So yes , it is kind of like a lecture . They are undergraduates and far from being experts in their field . Note that I am not saying that no undergraduate ever produces new results in pure math ( there are some high school students that are better than most PhDs ) , but it is not a common occurrence and is not expected or considered the norm .
Here 's what <URL> in CSV/Excel . Here 's the header of the file :
No . I work at a university that focuses almost exclusively on research ( we have only graduate students , most of whom are Ph.D. students , and the number of postdocs , research staff , etc. is approximately equal to the number of students ) . A few faculty members are well known as excellent teachers , and a few are commonly known to be poor teachers . In general , I do n't think the distinction has very much influence on the respect accorded to each within the university ( and even less in the larger academic community ) . But I think the good teachers are better liked , both by their peers and the administration . I certainly appreciate it when I find that students are well prepared thanks to having taken a course with a " good " teacher . And bad teachers are occasionally so bad that they cause administrative problems , which makes everyone unhappy . Part of each faculty member 's annual review is an evaluation of his/her teaching ( by the dean ) . A positive review is definitely a good thing .
Networking is key -- check out <URL> to <URL> . Find people in your university who are willing to recommend you to the other researchers in the field , whom you would like to work with . Take advantage of the connections your faculty members have developed . Then write a killer cover letter . aeismail notes that <URL> was the only reason he even considered an individual for a research internship . Research the PI and tailor your letter to his/her interests and current project .
end question
start question
How can a PhD student enlarge his academic collaboration network ?
Of course , you 'll get there by engaging in a lot of activities where you will meet new people and work with people who will learn to know you . I recommend choosing them according to a few criteria : Activities of a seemingly technical ( or practical ) nature . As a PhD student , you probably do n't want to be on boring committees , board-style meetings , interdepartmental seminars . You will meet people , but not in a way that fosters collaboration . ( However , you may want to attend these events for other purposes . Meeting key people involved in hiring decisions at a given institution is one such purpose that comes to mind . ) Informal settings . This favors meeting new people and getting to know them much better . Favor small meetings over big ones . Aim for a few persons you want to meet . Identify people you would like to approach ( at a big event ) , then check what events they attend . Manage to invite people for talks at your institution . Okay , this one might be a bit difficult for a PhD student in some places , but if you can manage to get someone invited for a day or two , get him to give a talk and discuss your research and his , it will be worth it . Do not shy away from " learning " events : tutorials , " hands-on with XXX library " type of things . All in all , I think the kind of events you want to engage in are : Open source projects : you listed that one already Workshops close to your research topic : these typically involve few people and long discussions . Many of my strongest collaborations ( and a few friendships ) grew out of workshops . Tutorials organized on topics related , but not too close , to your research : you will learn stuff , meet people in a relaxed setting . Do n't be shy of going to workshops where you already know some of the stuff , if only to put it in practice and discuss with the best experts . Also , be ready to present your own work and identify convergences with lecturers and other participants .
Something I used to do ( I no longer teach ) was to grade in such a way that there should not be an issue if any student compared his/her graded test with any other student in the class . And this certainly happened in my classes ( indeed , I sometimes did this myself when I was a student ) , from the first classes I taught in 1983 to the last classes I taught in 2005 . By the way , I taught math . I suspect the methods I describe are much easier to carry out in math than in some other fields , such as literary criticism or philosophy . Something I started doing after a few years of teaching was to photocopy my solutions/rubric sheet and handing a copy of it back with each student 's test . Before this , I often handed out solutions to save class time ( and office hour time ) , and at some point I realized I could save even more of my personal time by simply handing back what I had already hand-written for grading purposes , without bothering to rewrite ( or type ) it again in a neater form . The solutions I used for grading purposes were often brief , but for rubric purposes I would always include steps that I expected some students to miss , so it actually worked fine with most students when they consulted it to see what they did wrong or how to correctly work the problem . And for those places where I was too brief for a particular student , they tended to consult with their neighbors sitting next to them and together they almost always managed to figure things out , so I tended to only get the less trivial types of questions . As for the rubric , what worked best for me was to treat the rubric as a " work in progress " in the sense that I made grading decisions whenever a certain type of error showed up , rather than trying to anticipate them in advance . One policy I had and which I often reminded students about was that they should never be afraid of asking me about a question for fear that their grade could decrease . If they saw anything that seemed to be an inconsistency in grading ( and this only happened on very rare occasions because I tended to document for myself almost every kind of mistake made as I graded tests ) , then I wanted them to let me know . If in fact I did make a mistake , then my mistake would never lower their grade , but it could increase other students ' grades if my mistake was an inconsistency in how many points were counted off for a certain type of mistake on their part . Also , if I saw on a student 's paper brought to me where I made an oversight by not counting off for something incorrect , then I would mark in ink a correction ( so the student would n't at some later time think what was incorrect was actually correct ) and include a comment that this was found after the tests were graded . One issue I used to often see students and teachers arguing about was points taken off for correct answers that were obtained by not entirely complete work . I learned early on that this can cause trouble when trying to justify your grading to students . The most straightforward way I found to handle this was to simply design problems whose solution requires all the things you feel are important , and of course often reminding students when working problems in class prior to a test what type of work is acceptable and what type of work is not acceptable . For example , the standard elementary calculus method for determining the global maximum and global minimum of a continuous function on a closed and bounded interval involves finding the values of the function at the critical points ( where the derivative is zero or undefined ) in the interior of the interval and the values of the function at the endpoints of the interval . So if you give a problem where both extrema occur at the endpoints , or both extrema occur in the interior of the interval , then the student could get the correct answer using correct ( but not entirely complete ) mathematical reasoning by only considering the critical points or by only considering the endpoints . The way to fix this is to design the problem so that one of the extrema is in the interior and the other extrema is at an endpoint . Better still is to arrange it so that there are at least two critical points , with at least one critical point lying outside the interval and at which the function 's value is greater than the global maximum on the interval or less than the global minimum on the interval .
I published my PhD thesis as a book in VDM verlag . It publishes PhD dissertations and working with them is quite easy . The only problem is they put a relatively high price on your book and this might reduce the sale of your book . Due to this problem , I have received no royalty from my book yet . So if you think any other publisher can do better ( financially ) it is better you consider another publisher . Their publishing strategy is based on printing on demand . It means they publish a few copies of your book and sell them to some big libraries around the world . Then if an individual purchases your book online , they publish it for him as they receive the order . If you want to publish your book quickly and easily , you may want to use their service . for more information about their work see <URL> or their website <URL> .
I agree with Seteropere completely , " Network Science " is a very broad subject . I work with the theory of " dynamic networks " which involves a lot of graph theory , complex networks , and time series analysis , but also in protocol design for Delay Tolerant Networks which is another application you might like . Take a look at this website , <URL> it has plenty of links that I rate very highly . Including links to Alain Barrat 's work ( check out <URL> it has some wonderful illustrations of dynamic networks ) . There is also a conference devoted specifically to Temporal and Dynamic Networks <URL> Here are some of the tips I sent to a recent new student in our department , most are free in that there are no paywalls : Look at the references on the most recent papers you are reading , and also look at the conferences and journals that the authors are involved in by visiting their personal websites . This will tell you where people are currently submitting to . There are some websites devoted to finding conferences too , but do n't rely on them . Some examples : <URL> <URL> Find a conference you like the look of , look at their calls for papers , and past proceedings to see what they are asking for . Mailing lists ! Sign up to ( but do n't spam ) well known mailing lists . Again this will be dependent on the area you are interested in . In computer networking the biggest mailing list for calls for papers is probably the IEEE TCCC mailing list , <URL> . Social networks . Sign up to Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin / etc. . A lot of Phd Students , PostDocs , lecturers , research groups , and conferences are on Twitter . When you find someone or something you like , look for it on social networking sites , look who is following , what they are talking about , and get involved . Good luck .
The canonical reference for this subject is <URL> . They recommend that a letter to a knight should begin " Dear Sir [ given name ] , " regardless of whether they have other titles such as " professor " . In fact , they advise against mixing titles granted by the sovereign ( such as knighthoods and ranks in the armed forces ) with titles not granted by the sovereign ( such as professor ) but , as others have observed , " Professor Sir [ Given name ] [ Surname ] " is common usage . In an academic context , your alternative option for a salutation is " Dear Professor [ Surname ] " . However , as I noted in a comment to the question , it 's unlikely that somebody who 's the CEO of a multinational company would , in fact , be a professor .
There are interesting aspects raised by this question , not the least at which end of a distant interaction does the adjustment take place . Should the dyslexic collaborator make adjustments or should the other party make accommodations ? The issue of the influence any legislation is also interesting . If the collaboration arrangement is a formalised one , does any anti-discrimination laws apply at the US end which would require the US party to make adjustments ? Not knowing details of local laws I can not say , but local advice might need to be obtained . Even if it is not a requirement to do anything there may be other imperatives such as the protection of university reputation that could be affected by not being able to enable effective collaborations with disabled students . At the <URL> the location would indicate if their university should be providing resources to enable adjustments . If it was the <URL> ( I know it is not ) the the student 's university would already have an obligation to support adjustments to enable the participation in the collaboration on equal terms . Having discussed who might have to make adjustments , lets looks at possible means of adjustment . The most obvious mechanism is speech to text software , but even the best software has trouble with non-native ( and some native ) accents as well as the technical material often contained in Phd research discussions . Many regular uses of text-to-speech use a special " talking-to-the robot " form of speech to ensure accurate transcription . This leaves two other approaches . The move to a reduced text content or human transcription . Many dyslexic people find lengthy textual prose difficult . Often diagrams or speech are better . A tools that is often recommended are idea capture using brain-ware mapping . An example of such a Tool is <URL> . The research ideas can be captured in diagram form and pasted into a discussion wiki . Using a diagram the dyslexic and non-dyslexic collaborators can communicate on equal terms . If speech transcription seems to have a rôle then , perhaps , junior researchers , such as undergraduate volunteers could be used to transcribe . This could happen at either end depending on availability of labour or funding . For a dyslexic student where funding is available there are software solutions that are very helpful in preparing text . Some tools assist in the conversion of non-linear expression into structured text ( such as Inspiration as already mentioned ) , but there are also writing tools . I find <URL> can be very useful , but others are available . I final thought ; It is often said <URL> and as such there can be linguistic difficulties between the most erudite writers on different continents . Just think how much harder it can be when dyslexia is introduced into the mix . As with both issues dialect or dyslexia , a little tolerance goes a long way .
It is unlikely that a reviewer or other participant in the peer review process will outright steal the work he/she is reviewing and publish it as original work , because it is easy to get caught . If the " real " author of the work accuses the thief of plagiarism , the editor of the journal can verify that the work was originally submitted by the " real " author before it was published by the rogue reviewer . ( Also see : <URL> ) If the rogue reviewer is caught , the paper will be retracted ( which is damaging to his professional reputation ) and there may also be other consequences for the reviewer . See e.g. <URL> .
One important general comment : It seems like you feel as though the department will leave you on your own to take these " needed undergraduate courses " . I find this highly unlikely ! If a department admits you ( and funds you ) , then they are on your side and want you to succeed ! If you are lacking some " satisfactory undergraduate training " , then the admissions committee will know this before offering you a spot in their program . When they make you an offer , they know what you specifically will need to do to meet the requirements of their program , and it 's in the best interest of the department to help you work towards meeting these requirements . If you enroll in a graduate program , you will be expected to get your knowledge of the basic areas of the subject up to the standard set by the department . Moreover , you will be expected to do this according to their timeline . Sometimes this may require you to take some undergraduate courses , which is not a big deal . In my experience in mathematics graduate school , students given the " standard " teaching assistantship are free to take courses of virtually any kind ( with perhaps the approval of the math department ) , and the tuition for these courses is covered by the assistantship automatically . There is no extra assistantship needed for such courses . In my department , I 've never heard of a student being denied permission to take courses outside of the department , and I 've seen math grad students take undergraduate courses like dance and Japanese . So presumably if you were a " fully funded " grad student and you needed to take some undergrad courses while in grad school , these would be covered by your existing assistantship . As to your last question : For the " standard " teaching assistantship , in math , it is typical that the student maintains ( or rather , annually renews ) the assistantship until she is done with the degree . This is of course dependent on the student making satisfactory progress towards the degree , as defined by each individual department .
Aditya 's comment should be the accepted answer : Bitbucket offers <URL> .
No one can really ' make ' anyone willing to help you . However , some things to consider that may convince the author to help . In your email communications : demonstrate your understanding of the source code . Be specific in what you ask - do n't do the " I do n't get any of this " type of message . Use your understanding , research and testing to help focus your questions . Make sure you have your understandings and questions ready before you email , do not send multiple emails before they have a chance to reply and try and put most , if not all of your questions in a single email . Be patient when waiting for a reply and be courteous and thankful for information provided . Have your supervisor/advisor look over your questions before sending it ( if you 're unsure ) . Remember , most of all , the author is under no obligation to even reply , and definitely not under any obligation to do your work for you . Bear in mind that they will have time-taking obligations and duties that take priority .
Disclaimer : I am a current doctoral candidate with 2 years of experience as the graduate student representative on the admissions committee of my department ( in STEM ) at a major R1 university in the USA and so , write this answer from that context . Simply put , a strong research record matters . However , this comes with several caveats . For a successful doctoral application in our department , we look at 1 . Standardized Test Scores : These ( GRE/TOEFL ) will not get you in but can keep you out . Mostly , they serve as preliminary filters and to fulfill certain graduate school minimum requirements . 2 . GPA/Academic Record : This matters significantly . Relevant grades in relevant courses matter more . A 4.3 GPA from MIT in Mathematics and Computer Science is great for a Mathematics or Computer Science application . We tend to look at overall GPA 's and then at relevant courses to catch red flags . For instance , you want to develop novel machine learning algorithms but have a C + on " Introduction to Discrete Structures " and B - on " Statistical Data Mining " . Red flag ! 3 . Research Experience : Research experience is important but more so in different sub-fields . This is the same as publications but there are important variations . For instance , in the field of Human-Computer Interaction ( HCI ) , having a first author paper in <URL> or <URL> matters more than a first author paper in a conference the admissions committee most probably have n't heard about . If you want your research to speak up , then get published in the best conferences in your field . This is not a requirement but is a very good sign of your nascent research potential . Over the past few years , I have seen increasing numbers of applications to our department come from well qualified undergraduate and masters students with such records . Its a competitive world ! 4 . Letters of Recommendations : This should be correlated positively with research experience . If your letters talk about your wonderful performance in coursework , admissions committees are generally not very interested ( they can already see that from your transcripts ) . If , on the other hand , you have detailed letters of recommendation from researchers that the admissions committee might know and which attest to your research performance with them , then that is a very good sign indeed ! In other words , its all about signals , signs and red flags . Specifically , in response to your questions : It varies . Unpublished manuscripts are not worth much but can serve as a good writing sample in case you do not have any other publications .
These can be useful research tools , but be specific about how your expertise in Office and Photoshop can help you with your proposed research project . Do n't just say that you are good at Office and Photoshop generally . I suspect most people have some knowledge about how to use them anyway and it wo n't be valuable information for the admission committee .
Simple ideas : Seminar where a professor gives a talk on his/her current research . Provide beer . Invite an alum from one of the companies you 're talking about to give a talk on something new from the company . Provide beer . Simple cook-out , which includes beer ( even better if this is a recurring event , monthly , once a semester , etc. ) . More involved ideas : Mini-poster conference , where a quorum of students have posters about their current research . Alum can act as judges , if you want to award prizes . Provide beer . Invite a famous alumus to give a talk . This always involves more work than you 're expecting , but can have big pay-offs . Might necessitate actual cocktails ( and possibly pay for the speaker , but if you play it right you should find an alumnus willing to do it for free ) . Field-trip to a local engineering firm that may have something interesting to look at ( or a tour ) . Drinks at a local bar afterward .
The <URL> Of , relating to , or characteristic of an educational institution or environment ; concerned with the pursuit of research , education , and scholarship ; scholarly , educational , intellectual . has a focus on education . The <URL> Academic institution is an educational institution dedicated to education and research , which grants academic degrees . also has a focus on education and a requirement to grant academic degrees . To me degree granting is critical to being an academic institution . I do not think of any non-degree granting institute as being academic . Places like the German MPIs and US National Laboratories are cutting edge research institutes , but not academic-institutes . Non-academic research institutions often have a grants office , just like their academic counterparts . Further employees at non-academic institutions that wish to conduct research can often get a research appointment at a local university .
Strictly speaking , the answer to your question is Never . Even after the copyright has expired , there is nothing to prevent a journal from keeping articles behind a paywall . Many journals will make articles open access after a certain amount of time , and after the copyright has expired , other people may freely distribute public domain articles . However , there are some journals that nonetheless have paywalled archives going back to the nineteenth century .
My policy , my 2 cents : Part of the grading corresponds to the expectation of the " customer " . if this project is considered as an actual development project in industry , does it deserves that the customer is paying its full price . For instance , I will give 10 points ( over 20 ) for that criteria . If the software fulfil all the requirements then the student is awarded the 10 points , otherwise he/she starts losing some of the points . Part of the grading is for the quality of the code ( structure , naming of variable , algorithmic aspects , etc. ) . I give 5 points at max here . The rest is for the tasks around the code : modeling , UML stuff , reports , etc. . The last 5 points can be found here .
I do n't think there 's anything " special " that 's unique to applying to academia that a graduate student can do to increase the odds of becoming a professor in the long run , particularly if one is going to do a postdoc later on . The two areas that might help are : Gain teaching experience that goes beyond the standard " recitation section " leader -- that is , into actual lecturing and other forms of direct interaction with students , as well as formulation of assignments and examinations . This might make a difference at schools which are more teaching-oriented rather than research-oriented . Formulate a well-defined scope for your future research activities , and also develop the tentative outlines for the first few projects that you 'd start in that field . This is an essential part of any professorial application , and the sooner you start working on it , the more polished it will be when you 're ready to apply for positions when the time comes . Beyond that , what makes someone a good candidate for a postdoc are essentially the same qualities that will help in being a good candidate for a professorship later on .
This is an excellent question , for faculty as well as students ! How important are these points in evaluating the teaching capabilities of a student ? Obviously this varies significantly in different departments and institutions , but in my experience , the scores themselves are not that important . My department does pay attention to these numbers when allocating future TAships , but definitely not in isolation . Narrative reviews from the instructors carry significant weight . The people doing the assignments also know which courses are unpopular , and which instructors are irresponsible , and adjust the evaluation accordingly , at least in principle . In practice , there are only three evaluations : ( 1 ) truly outstanding TAs , who are considered for teaching awards ; ( 2 ) truly abysmal TAs , who are not rehired , at least without retraining ( and since we have a TAship requirement , this has teeth ) ; and ( 3 ) everyone else . When we evaluate tenure-track faculty candidates , teaching ability is usually a second-order concern , but it is a concern . Poor evaluations on an applicant 's CV are a red flag -- why did n't they just omit them ? Good evaluations are mostly a signal to look further . Teaching awards carry more weight . Recommendation letters that directly praise the applicant 's teaching ability -- with concrete and credible details -- are even better . Similar issues arise when evaluating faculty for tenure , with one big difference : omitting the teaching scores is not an option . How does one ensure that the students are sincere in their evaluation ? You ca n't . Sorry . However , I believe you can increase the fraction of sincere ( and positive ) responses by consistently treating your students with respect . Make your expectations clear from day one , and enforce them consistently . Invite feedback throughout the semester , and respond to it quickly and appropriately . Apologize quickly for mistakes , thank students publicly for useful suggestions , but do not buckle on high standards . Give timely , consistent , and useful feedback on coursework . Above all , do not waste your students ' time ; the correlation between hard work and low evaluations is much higher if the students do n't see any benefit to doing the work . < Insert standard confirmation bias warning here . > How does the TA make the best of a bad job [ if the instructor is irresponsible ] ? First , do your own job as best as you can . Second , raise your concerns with the instructor ; be respectful but brutally honest . If the instructor is unresponsive , raise your concerns with your instructor 's boss ; be respectful but brutally honest . ( Note : Disagreement is not the same as being unresponsive . ) If your instructor 's boss is also unresponsive , your department does n't really care about poor teaching ; they 're likely to ignore your evaluations , even if they are low . Apart from holding weekly office hours and lenient grading ( ! ) , what is the maximum a TA can do , after all ? There are many more things that TAs can do . At a minimum , hold office hours that the students actually find useful ; do n't just show up . Distribute practice problems , and offer feedback on the students ' solutions . Hold weekly review/discussion/problem-solving sessions . As aeismail suggests , write review notes . If the instructor covered too much , distill down their main points ; if the instructor did n't cover enough , expand on the key ideas they missed . Offer to give a few guest lectures , and then give fantastic guest lectures . More self-servingly : Make sure the students see you working to overcome your instructor 's shortcomings . If the students do n't see you fighting on their behalf ( even if you are ) , they 'll write you off as yet another useless academic , like your instructor . But if you can make them believe you 're on their side , they 'll reward you . I think this is why students often reward " lenient grading " ; if the students think the coursework is a waste of time , they 'll see lenient graders as their allies . Obviously this all takes time . As aeismail says , TAs usually have many other responsibilities , especially to their own classes , projects , research , families , and sanity . It is frighteningly easy for committed and caring TAs to find themselves being abused by less committed instructors ( or even departments ) . Set limits .
( I will quote a <URL> by <URL> and a <URL> by <URL> . ) You have got three qualities of the thesis production : good , cheap , fast . You can choose two . Hiring a LaTeX specialist is good ( if you find a good one ) , fast ( if you find a good one ) but expensive -- typesetting a 100-page thesis can take around 20 -- 30 hours of work , easily more depending on the text , on the person you work with , on the amount of discussion about the appearance , proofreading etc. . Making it yourself is cheap . However , unless you are Jarod from the Pretender series or you know LaTeX already , it can not be both good and fast . Of course , making it yourself is better in moving your LaTeX skills forward , but I do not think this is crucial for an academic career , surely it is not more crucial than submitting a quality thesis in time . People hire services of all kinds , you get grant-writing , typesetting , conference organization , IT , etc. -- very various kind of out-sourced services for which someone can say : " A good researcher has to be able to do this . " To answer your question about LaTeX services : I doubt universities have , in general , such services themselves . Some have a LaTeX theses class ( of varying quality ) , some even do not have this . However , there are independent LaTeX consults and consulting companies . I ca n't list any since ( 1 ) I do n't know them and ( 2 ) this is not an advertising site . However , remember that these people are highly specialized , and the prices of their services reflect this .
One possible thing to watch out for : in some departments , graduate students may work as teaching assistants for graduate courses . You should ask not to be assigned to TA courses which your significant other is taking ( and he or she should do likewise ) , as this would represent a possible conflict of interest . Even if you can grade your SO 's work objectively , there might be a perception of unfairness among other students . Likewise , if any other situation should arise where one of you might be in a position of authority over the other , you 'd need to disclose the conflict of interest and be prepared to resolve it . Otherwise , as Peter Jansson said , relationships between graduate students are very common and are n't likely to cause academic concern . Just stay professional about it ( e.g. do n't make out in the hallways ) .
end question
start question
Should I mention being enrolled in distance course currently as a backup option in application form ?
The basic rule of thumb is this : if you 're actively involved in something at the time of application , then you should mention it . If you 're tentatively enrolled ( for example , you 've been offered admission , but have not yet officially registered ) , then it does n't actually count , and you need not mention it .
There are interesting aspects raised by this question , not the least at which end of a distant interaction does the adjustment take place . Should the dyslexic collaborator make adjustments or should the other party make accommodations ? The issue of the influence any legislation is also interesting . If the collaboration arrangement is a formalised one , does any anti-discrimination laws apply at the US end which would require the US party to make adjustments ? Not knowing details of local laws I can not say , but local advice might need to be obtained . Even if it is not a requirement to do anything there may be other imperatives such as the protection of university reputation that could be affected by not being able to enable effective collaborations with disabled students . At the <URL> the location would indicate if their university should be providing resources to enable adjustments . If it was the <URL> ( I know it is not ) the the student 's university would already have an obligation to support adjustments to enable the participation in the collaboration on equal terms . Having discussed who might have to make adjustments , lets looks at possible means of adjustment . The most obvious mechanism is speech to text software , but even the best software has trouble with non-native ( and some native ) accents as well as the technical material often contained in Phd research discussions . Many regular uses of text-to-speech use a special " talking-to-the robot " form of speech to ensure accurate transcription . This leaves two other approaches . The move to a reduced text content or human transcription . Many dyslexic people find lengthy textual prose difficult . Often diagrams or speech are better . A tools that is often recommended are idea capture using brain-ware mapping . An example of such a Tool is <URL> . The research ideas can be captured in diagram form and pasted into a discussion wiki . Using a diagram the dyslexic and non-dyslexic collaborators can communicate on equal terms . If speech transcription seems to have a rôle then , perhaps , junior researchers , such as undergraduate volunteers could be used to transcribe . This could happen at either end depending on availability of labour or funding . For a dyslexic student where funding is available there are software solutions that are very helpful in preparing text . Some tools assist in the conversion of non-linear expression into structured text ( such as Inspiration as already mentioned ) , but there are also writing tools . I find <URL> can be very useful , but others are available . I final thought ; It is often said <URL> and as such there can be linguistic difficulties between the most erudite writers on different continents . Just think how much harder it can be when dyslexia is introduced into the mix . As with both issues dialect or dyslexia , a little tolerance goes a long way .
If you intend to cover expenses , I would suggest saying so up front . Some invited talks cover expenses and some do not , so it 's important information to include . You 've presumably picked these speakers to invite because you really want them there . Stating in the invitation letter that you will cover expenses will let them clearly know how much you value their presence . In particular : Senior scientists , who often get a lot more invitations than they can accept , will know to take you seriously because you are actually offering to pay their expenses , and they are much more likely to say yes . Young scientists , who often have had few such experiences , will likely feel flattered and important and be very likely to say yes . Do n't make a big deal out of it ( that could make you look inexperienced and desperate ) ; just note towards the bottom of the invitation that you will cover all reasonable travel expenses . That is signal enough .
In the UK many universities require new members of academic staff to obtain a PGCHE . The universities that I am familiar with offer the PGCHE curriculum in house via the School of Education . Since it is presented to new staff as a hoop to jump through , I know of no one outside of university administrators and schools of education that think the PGCHE , in any form , seriously . Further , I have seen many job adverts where a PGCHE is a " desirable " qualification , but never one where it is " essential " . During hiring , we briefly consider the presence/absence of a PGCHE , but never more than that .
In my experience , when a conference asks authors to identify reviewers that are conflicted , they want you to identify reviewers who fall into certain categories of people who should not review your work because they have a relationship with you personally that could bias their review . For example : your advisor , your colleagues , your current collaborators , your family members , etc. . They are not asking you to list reviewers who you consider to be your competition . For example , the instructions for <URL> say : As an author , you should list PC and ERC members ( and any others , since others may be asked for outside reviewers ) which you believe have a conflict with you . While particular criteria for making this determination may vary , please apply the following guidelines , identifying a potential reviewer Bob as conflicted if Bob was your co-author or collaborator at some point within the last 2 years Bob is an advisor or advisee of yours Bob is a family member Bob has a non-trivial financial stake in your work ( e.g. , invested in your startup company ) Also please identify institutions with which you are affiliated ; all employees or affiliates of these institutions will also be considered conflicted . If a possible reviewer does not meet the above criteria , please do not identify him/her as conflicted . Doing so could be viewed as an attempt to prevent a qualified , but possibly skeptical reviewer from reviewing your paper . If you nevertheless believe that a reviewer who does not meet the above criteria is conflicted , you may identify the person and send a note to the PC Chair .
What you are getting paid when you are not working for your university should not matter . Taking it to a ( albeit artificial and ridiculous ) extreme , if a top programmer in industry , with a salary of 100k $ / year joins a doctoral program in June , would you consider that his salary from January to May is enough so you can not pay him for a couple of years ? In my view ( and some jurisdictions too ) , working for free is very close to slavery , and should be avoided when possible . So , absolutely , you can go ahead and ask her if she will fund you . Your situation is good in the way that if she says no you will have a backup . With this said , I can understand if she refuses . If it is a single , non continued project , it is not as efficient to hire a person for one month as for three , and if you are not going to do it , she may use the funds to hire someone else for the full time . If you are going to continue doing your usual work during that month , there is not so much difference between being there one or three months , and your case is stronger . As an extra , during your fellowship , you will probably learn a bunch of new things , so you are an extra asset for your group . You can also offer to give a few seminars on what you have learned in partial exchange for the funding .
A person qualified in another area ( such as a Phd in Physics ) who wanted to learn a new topic ( like computer game development ) would likely be welcomed on a full-time taught masters course . Full-time taught masters courses are often designed for those who want a change in direction and have the motivation to focus for the year to achieve that goal . There are people who want to be an astronaut , for example , who go back and learn new skills and knowledge and collect several degrees in the process . You do have to have an interregnum in employment , as a full-time course is exactly that . A lot of daily , weekly and monthly time needs to be devoted to it to learn all that material that others will have picked up in a three year Bachelor 's degree . I teach on such a course and we have many " career change " applicants who are well qualified in other fields . It is quite normal .
Personally , I am a big believer of footnotes . They enable additional information to be added , without distracting the reader from the main argument . However , others will not share my position . One test I like to apply before adding a footnote is : can I include the footnote text in the main body ? If I can do so without hindering the reader , then I tend to do so .
I am not so sure that your final year thesis has actually ' failed ' . It is not actually expected that many students will propose something truly new in their bachelor 's thesis . The purpose is to teach you how to research a topic and write about your research . In this case , the fact that your supervisor did not give you much guidance or direction may actually be seen as positive , since you have succeeded in finding the relevant papers on your own , and have ( I presume ) written a decent paper about your research . You are now heading into a phase where you will be expected to go beyond a literature search and propose " something new " . Finding the relevant references is a basic skill required of any researcher . So is being able to work independently ( that is , without someone always telling you what to do and where to focus your research ) . Your current supervisor 's supervisory style has forced you to do this -- point out this fact in your SOP ! Take credit for having initiative and independence , and do not see your final year thesis as failed . It may not be outstanding , but it has served the purpose well .
This is not a standard , but these are some considerations that have helped me : If I give code for students I take special care to be consistent ( I am not always successful ) . Students tend to find inconsistencies and think there must be a reason for that and start looking for reasons where none exist . I also consider the purpose of the snippet : is it an example of best practice or an illustration of how such code works . In the former case I would be less verbose with my comments then in the latter case . Sometimes it helps to have a list of trivial tricks separate from the example code . <URL> is an example I have used . This can be an alternative to commenting tricks in your code that are not central to the point you want to make with that example .
I would n't outright reject the utility of discussing failed iterations in your thesis . If handled deftly , a discussion of failures could be just as informative as a discussion of your final approach . Far too often , such discussions are omitted from papers owing to lack of space . Think of it from your reader 's point of view . What does s/he stand to gain from reading about failed approaches ? If you could provide an analysis of the " nature of problem " and the " ill fitting approach " , and put it in a larger perspective , it might help readers avoid repeating your ( very tempting ) mistakes in their works .
Yes . They are going to see it in your CV anyway and if you say nothing , it just looks like you are trying to hide something and they are going to assume the worst . I would tell them the reasons why I quit ( e.g. what to do something applied , ... ) .
That depends on the graduate school , and the competition . So it is hard to say . However , giving talks is part of the day to day life in academia . So getting practice early wo n't hurt once you are in the graduate school .
I can not see any problem with this as long as no copyrighted material is accessible in such a way that it breaks the copyrights of the book . Although the outline of a book probably can be considered the intellectual property of the author ( and possibly the publisher depending on copyright ) , I doubt anyone would object since the purpose of writing a ( course ) book is to provide a product to support teaching of a specific topic . The structure of a book can often be the most logical way of presenting the material . The key issues is rather if you reproduce parts of the book such as providing the exercises on-line . As long as participants must obtain the material in the book on their own you should not worry . From this perspective it is no different from a normal university course ( where it is also illegal to copy and distribute material freely from a book ( or equivalent ) . So for an on-line course , you just need to be very careful with reproducing text or figures from copyrighted materials in ways that breaks the rules . You can also contact the holder of the copyright ( author/publisher ) to obtain the right to provide parts within the course . The success of this may depend on the system you use for on-line material and what file formats you use for distributing the materials . Such details will likely be made clear by the copyright owner if you ask .
I would not mention this no , this should not have any consequence to the students application , it may be a little out of place . It would be worth advising the student to inform any future places of study about his handwriting he may be able to get some alternate support with regard to exams . I would not see this student as a liability , just maybe needing a little extra support in this area , it is fair for an examiner to not spend ages marking one students paper due to bad handwriting , so long as they give it a fair go and a good effort .
Yes , it can be mentioned . I would put a category on your CV titled " service to the profession . " In that section , mention the year and the name of the journal that asked you to referee . It 's not a major point , but it shows that you 're willing to be a team player and help out the journal . That speaks both to your professionalism and to the fact that the editor trusted your judgment .
Recommend not on the first day . I 'm actually in exactly this situation for the fall term , so I was prepping myself mentally for just this issue . In my experience , expressing any uncertainty about the course on the first day prompts almost instantaneous pleading/negotiation/argumentation over any and all stated procedures ( parameters for assignments , grading , due dates , etc. , etc. ) Now , this is partly influenced by the fact that I work at an urban community college where the student maturity level can be quite low for certain courses . If you work at a more high-powered institution then the environment might be different . But I still think it best to be authoritative at the start , gauge the environment on subsequent days , and then if you feel comfortable admitting the situation and/or asking for feedback later on , you 'll be more confident about doing so .
It was your task to ensure the book gets returned . You need to take responsibility and apologize . You can mention that you had made arrangements , which failed unfortunately . It 's unlikely that the professor cares about the details . What he cares about is that he did n't get the book ( that 's why you apologize ) and that he can rely on and trust you ( that 's why you promise it does n't happen again and make sure it does n't ) . This is a learning experience , i.e. , you know now that your relative is not reliable and as a consequence your professor trusts you slightly less ( but that 's not permanent damage ) . Obviously , make sure he gets the book as soon as possible .
You can call and ask , but you are unlikely to get anything useful . You will most likely hear that your CV was very good , but that there were stronger applicants . If the head of the search is really good , they might actually look at your CV again and pick a weaker aspect of it ( no matter how strong a applicant is , there is always a weaker aspect of the CV ) . If you want to know about your relative qualifications , ask whoever is writing your references . If they do not know about the UK system , find a colleague that does and ask them .
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
end question
start question
Should I include journalistic articles in my CV ?
I have written a couple of articles for 2 different daily newspapers . In them , I have discussed the issues of my academic field . Should I include them in my CV ? Yes , certainly , as long as you clearly separate them from your academic publications . Strictly speaking , they are form of publication , so it would n't be lying to list them together with your research papers under a vague enough title , but this would be a very bad idea . It would come across like you are trying to make your publication list look longer by inflating it with non-academic publications . [ If the newspaper articles had nothing at all to do with your academic work , then mentioning them probably would n't make sense . However , it sounds like they do . ] If so , under what title ? Is press release appropriate ? What is the most common and accepted term ? Definitely not press release , since a press release is something else : it 's a document given to journalists to inform them about a possible story they could write about . Occasionally newspapers publish lightly edited versions of press releases , without gathering much more information , but this is considered bad reporting . I do n't think there 's a clear standard for how to list this information . You could list it in several ways : outreach , other publications ( if you have a " scholarly publications " section , say ) , writing for the general public , etc. .
I think that more than half of the articles and notes published in the Monthly contain original research . ( " Totally original " does not seem like a useful standard , as many well-written seminal papers contain substantial portions which are not original research . I am currently translating Serre 's 1972 paper on torsion points and am struck by the extent to which he was willing to be expository . ) I work at a large research university , I have two Monthly publications ( and article and a note ; the former appears in the December 2014 issue ) and I happily -- indeed proudly -- <URL> . There is definitely original research in both of these publications . ( I apologize for the excessive horn-tooting , but it seems perhaps relevant to mention that Google Scholar finds a citation for each of these publications in a research paper written by people I have never met . ) It is not the same species of research that I would publish in the Journal of Number Theory or Crelle , but since they occur alongside publications in these journals , I think their existence reflects positively on my research profile . If you clicked on my webpage , you may have seen that I do separately list expository documents . These documents do not contain new results ( though in some cases they contain proofs that I at least have not found in the literature ) . But I think it is not a coincidence that none of these documents have been published , although three out of the four have been submitted . I do n't seem to have a good handle on the genre of " truly expository journal aritcles " ; in fact , I find that it is as much work or more to get these published and I do think that the value to me would be smaller . There are also surprisingly few avenues for the publication of mathematical exposition , so because I am less interested in the certification or credit that the formal publication process brings , I have for a while been content to " self-publish " these results on my own webpage and/or the arxiv . One default way is to list as research publications those which are archived and reviewed by MathSciNet . Alas I am not entirely clear on how these choices are made . It seems that in recent years , most Monthly publications get archived and many get reviewed . For the other MAA journals -- Math Magazine and the College Math Journal -- it seems to be rarer to have reviews . For instance my recent Monthly publication references a 2012 note of Kantrowitz and Schramm , but MathSciNet has no record of this publication . I just looked back at the last few years of CMJ , and I am a bit confused : I do n't know why they do n't list certain short articles ( I think they should ... ) and how they choose to review the articles that they do . Upon further thought , here are two rules of thumb I like a little better : " Rule 1 : Do not mislead " . If your Nature publication is actually a letter to the editor correcting someone 's birth and death dates [ this is a totally hypothetical example ; I have no idea whether this journal would ever publish such a letter ] and you do n't list this explanatory detail on your CV , I worry that you are trying to misrepresent yourself . " Rule 2 : Subject to Rule 1 , make the publication list an accurate reflection of your own views . " Thus , notwithstanding what I wrote above , I might perhaps submit <URL> for publication in something like the CMJ someday . Unlike most other stuff I 've written , it is wholly and sincerely aimed at actual intermediate-level undergraduate math majors , and I think that it might actually help some people if it were published . But there is just no mathematical novelty here , and I think it would dilute my own record by listing it as a research publication .
Copying my comment : I do n't think you should . I ca n't recall ever seeing test scores listed on a CV . Nobody really cares about GRE scores except graduate admissions committees , and they get the scores straight from ETS anyway .
In general , I would leave out the financial amounts of scholarships and fellowships from CV 's . If it 's a small dollar amount , putting it on diminishes the amount of the award . If it 's a well-known award ( such as an NSF fellowship ) , or at least well-known in your field ( for example , a fellowship or scholarship by your field 's professional society ) , the details are already sufficiently well-known that they do n't need to be mentioned . I might only list them if they were ( a ) rather substantial in value and ( b ) not well-known enough to be on most people 's radar screens ( at least in your field ) . At the same time , listing just a few sort of calls attention to the fact that the other awards might not be so large . So again , I 'd lean towards not including them at all .
The following assumes that you do not have to follow strict guidelines for your CV ( in which case you would most probably have consulted them already ) . You put stuff on a CV for a reason , usually to showcase your achievements or experience . When deciding what to put on a CV , this should be your main criterion , i.e. , do you think that whoever reads your CV will be positively impressed reading this -- in contrast to being annoyed by having to read about every tiny thing you ever published ? Whether the article in question is sufficiently noteworthy , is something that only you and people who are familiar with your work ( such as a supervisor ) can decide . It might help to ask yourself the following questions : Are you at a stage where you list every publication , talk and poster on your CV or are you only listing " selected publications " ? Is the correspondence relevant and can you expect the reader to know or see this ? Did you , e.g. , find a serious flaw in a publication that was considered seminal until your correspondence ? Has your correspondence been cited ? Did your correspondce require a noteworthy effort and can you expect the reader to know or see this ? Are you the main contributor to the correspondence ? Considering where to put this correspondence , I would try to avoid creating a new category for one item only , i.e. , I would put it in some fitting category or choose the categories such that it fits in one of them . Either way , I would ensure that the correspondence can not be mistaken for a regular publication . If your correspondence does not have a title like " Reply to ... " , which makes this obvious , you can , e.g. , append " ( correspondence ) " to the entry . Disclaimer : The above is based on thought only . I have no experience in putting correspondce on a CV .
If she has already agreed to write you a recommendation letter , I would think the most nerve-wracking part is over . At least for me , meeting with professors and not knowing with 100 % certainty that they would write a letter for me was the source of most of my anxiety over the meetings . I would definitely not ask if she brought you a souvenir from Japan ( or anywhere else ) unless this is a culturally acceptable thing ( at least in the US , such a question would likely be considered strange at best and rude at worst ) . I would also avoid questions/topics that can be considered personal , like her living situation , love life , et cetera . I think it would be fine to ask her about her travels ( e.g. , " tell me about Japan " ) , or ask her about her current research or experience at the school . At least to me , those are innocent questions that also show that you have an interest in what she has been doing . From there , you can lead the conversation to what you have been doing and what you plan on doing in graduate school , and this naturally leads to a discussion of the recommendation letter .
Unless you have some reason to believe your revised paper has some serious additional problems , I do n't think you should worry . It may not be best practices for referees and editors to operate this way ( just looking to see whether the changes requested in the first report have been adequately completed ) . Ideally , the referee should check over carefully that none of the changes have introduced new problems , but that is n't always done . The referee and editor may have felt that the revisions were not really that big a deal . You may have been overthinking things when you made the changes ; they might have intended some considerably less sweeping editing . Or the referee may have seriously underestimated how much additional work and explication would be required to fix the problems the referee pointed out . The referee might even have told the editors that another round of refereeing would not actually be necessary ; if you made the changes , then the paper would be ready for publication . ( For several of the journals I have refereed for , this is one of the options in the recommendation menu of the reviewing software ; however , I also know , as an author , that this part of the review is not shared with the authors . )
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
Edited for clarity , since the question in the title is somewhat opposite to that in the body : do not list all your references on your CV . Only the ones who have written or will write to that particular potential employer . To list everyone might give several unfortunate impressions . First , that the potential employer can contact any one of those references directly . Second , if the prospective employer has received letters from some , but not all , they may think something 's wrong ... and one form of this is to consider your application " incomplete " , but not inform you , and you miss the opportunity .
Here is how I would think about it : You were at the government lab when you did the research , so its logo definitely needs to be there You are preparing the logo and presenting the poster while at the university , so it 's reasonable for its logo to be there as well . With such things , it 's usually better to err on the side of inclusiveness : people or organizations are much more likely to feel it 's problematic to not be included than to feel it 's problematic to be included , as long as there is some reasonable connection .
If this is for an application for university , then you do not need to date your personal statement . That is because your application as a whole is dated and signed by you at the very end . Otherwise , you can initialize and date it at the end of the document , e.g. : KN 2014.06.30
" Service " activities are usually listed under a heading such as " Professional Service " or " Professional Activities . " However , this does not apply to simply attending or presenting at conferences and workshops , but rather to organizing or scientific committees .
You joined a PhD program without a master 's degree ? Well ... a master of science is about doing an small version of a PhD . In that sense , it could be beneficial to show that you do have some experience in research . On the other hand , the fact that you left , probably without results or something to prove how well did you do it so far , might not be so positive . But anyway , honesty should be the most important thing , and you should n't hide what you have done before . Also , it is definitely more beneficial to fill those gaps on your CV with the PhD time , instead of letting them think that you were just lounging around ...
Summary : Is it ok for you to include the CC By-NC 4.0 image in your paper ? Yes . Is it ok for the paper to go through a particular process at the conference ? Maybe ( see below ) . The answer to this question is not clear-cut . There is no general agreement as to what constitutes " commercial purpose " with CC licenses . There has been much <URL> which has resulted in guidelines , but they are still not black and white . The best approach is to contact the person who owns the copyright for the image and ask them for permission . That is the non-ambiguous approach . If that is not possible , the next best approach would be to discuss the issue with the conference in question . Depending on how aware they are about licensing issues , they may already have an option in place to address your situation . A separate issue is the one of copyright transfer . You are free to transfer your own copyrighted content to another body , such as the conference . But you can not assign another person 's copyright to them . Usually there is a line in the copyright transfer agreement that requires you to specify that you own all of the material being assigned to the new owner . Regardless of the outcome above , you do not own the copyright on the image , even if you have permission to use it . These are separate issues . Once again , you should discuss this issue with the conference organizers . My personal experience has been that many conferences request copyright transfer as a blanket process without realizing that it 's often not necessary . When I have contacted such conferences and told them that my work is published under a CC license and that I will NOT assign the copyright to them but WILL give them permission to use it as they see fit , they usually accept and have no problem with it . Sometimes , however , the conferences get stuck on procedure and try to force a single process that does n't fit modern publishing constraints such as the ones you describe .
the fact that I had a chance to go to the competition is one of my competitive points . How can I write that down on my CV ? You almost wrote down exactly what you need . was selected to go to SPO , [ ... which is an accomplishment why ? ] an extremely selective program admitting only [ top X % of , Y hundred , etc. ] physics students nationwide And it 's always fine to say " placed in the top 1/2 of students " if true . Just from a resume writing standpoint anything worse than top 1/2 would n't add value to include . As an aside , you are completely right that this is huge lauds . In high school I placed # 8 in a similar state-wide competition . What if the top 10 were invited for an even more competitive competition and I came darn near in last ? Do n't fall for the Russian doll effect which more or less just tells you you 're not # 1 in the world ( ... but even the best undergraduate programs admit more than one physics student ! ) Obviously the admission would be an accomplishment . Quantification is important . Numbers are best for a corporate resume , but perhaps just establishing the prestige of SPO is sufficient . Check their website for info on how prestigious it is to participate . Perhaps they have recognition from the U.S. President or something - whatever it is they 'll be sure to brag about it somewhere . If the reviewer does not know of SPO , they will have no way to tell this is n't just an email list with 30 students submitting problems and answers with a leader board .
A person qualified in another area ( such as a Phd in Physics ) who wanted to learn a new topic ( like computer game development ) would likely be welcomed on a full-time taught masters course . Full-time taught masters courses are often designed for those who want a change in direction and have the motivation to focus for the year to achieve that goal . There are people who want to be an astronaut , for example , who go back and learn new skills and knowledge and collect several degrees in the process . You do have to have an interregnum in employment , as a full-time course is exactly that . A lot of daily , weekly and monthly time needs to be devoted to it to learn all that material that others will have picked up in a three year Bachelor 's degree . I teach on such a course and we have many " career change " applicants who are well qualified in other fields . It is quite normal .
I do not generally see people highlighting their name in a CV in this way , and I do not think that it is necessary ( though perhaps the culture in experimental physics is different ) . In a CV , you are by definition an author of every listed paper , and papers where you are first author leap out pretty easily to the eye already -- unless you 've got lots of papers , in which case , why worry about it ? If you highlight your name , on the other hand , I think that it could come across as insecure , since it is not normally done .
Reposting my answer from the original thread There have been multiple studies about this over the years and in different fields , indicating a link rot on the order of a few percent per year . Here are some , in chronological order : Randy J. Carnevale , Dominik Aronsky , The life and death of URLs in five biomedical informatics journals , International Journal of Medical Informatics , Volume 76 , Issue 4 , April 2007 , Pages 269-273 , doi : <URL> . states Of the 19,108 references extracted from 606 printed and 86 in-press articles , 1112 ( 5.8 % ) references contained a URL . Of the 1049 unique URLs , 726 ( 69.2 % ) were alive , 230 ( 21.9 % ) were dead , and 93 ( 8.9 % ) were comatose . URLs from in-press articles included 212 URLs , of which 169 ( 79.7 % ) were alive , 21 ( 9.9 % ) were dead , and 22 ( 10.4 % ) were comatose . The average annual decay , or link rot , rate was 5.4 % . Edmund Russell , Jennifer Kane ( 2008 ) . The Missing Link : Assessing the Reliability of Internet Citations in History Journals . Technology and Culture , Volume 49 , Number 2 , pp. 420-429 . doi : <URL> states We examined the reliability of worldwide web citations in two leading history journals ( Journal of American History and American Historical Review ) over seven years and found that 18 percent of web links cited over that period were inactive . The problem increased over time . In articles published seven years earlier , 38 percent of web citations were dead . Jason Hennessey and Steven Xijin Ge ( 2013 ) : A cross disciplinary study of link decay and the effectiveness of mitigation techniques . BMC Bioinformatics 14 ( Suppl 14 ) : S5 . doi : <URL> states we downloaded 18,231 Web of Science ( WOS ) abstracts containing " http " in the title or abstract from the years under study ( 1996-2010 ) , out of which 17,110 URLs ( 14,489 unique ) were extracted and used . We developed Python scripts to access these URLs over a 30-day period . For the period studied , 69 % of the published URLs ( 67 % of the unique ) were available on the live Internet , the Internet Archive 's Wayback Machine had archived 62 % ( 59 % unique ) of the total and WebCite had 21 % ( 16 % unique ) . Overall , 65 % of all URLs ( 62 % unique ) were available from one of the two surveyed archival engines . Klein M , Van de Sompel H , Sanderson R , Shankar H , Balakireva L , Zhou K , et al. ( 2014 ) Scholarly Context Not Found : One in Five Articles Suffers from Reference Rot . PLoS ONE 9 ( 12 ) : e115253 . doi : <URL> . looked at link rot in article corpora from arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC : All three corpora show a moderate , yet alarming , link rot ratio for references made in recent articles , published in 2012 : 13 % for arXiv , 22 % for Elsevier , and 14 % for PMC . Not surprisingly when considering the dynamic nature of the web , for older articles the link rot ratio increases in all corpora . For publication year 2005 , the link rot ratio stands at 18 % , 41 % , 36 % for arXiv , Elsevier , and PMC , respectively . Going back to the earliest publication year in our corpora , 1997 , the ratios become 34 % , 66 % , and 80 % , respectively . Zittrain , J , Albert , K and Lessig , L . ( 2014 ) . Perma : scoping and addressing the problem of link and reference rot in legal citations . Harvard Law Review 127 : 176 -- 196 . surveyed law journals and court decisions , with the following observations We documented a serious problem of reference rot : more than 70 % of the URLs within the above mentioned journals , and 50 % of the URLs within U.S. Supreme Court opinions suffer reference rot -- meaning , again , that they do not produce the information originally cited . I also think I had seen a study somewhere that indicated that even " early online " articles start out at about 5-10 % link rot , i.e. they start rotting well before official publication . Could not find that right now , though .
In addition to sending an e-mail to the journal , as suggested already , you should check the most common academic databases such as Scopus and Web of Knowledge/Science and submit corrections to them so that they pick up the citation correctly . They have a form to submit this kind of corrections automatically ; it will then take a few weeks to apply them . People often ( way too often , actually ) rely on these databases to measure the performance of academics , so it is important that they do n't miss any of your citations .
Well you can put your published articles on arxiv just for visibility purposes , but you will be having problems with the copyright of the journals and conferences in which your work is published . Essentially , the editors will not get too busy to track you down , but it is not ethical . There is one way to go around this problem , publish in arxiv the draft versions of your articles , the ones that are a little bit different from the published ones . In that case you would not have any kind of ethical issues ( you can also put them on your webpage , but always look to the copyright forms ) Good luck !
end question
start question
What are the differences between a research paper and a patent ?
You 're asking multiple questions at once , so let 's start with : What are the differences between a research paper and a patent There are many , but briefly a research paper has the purpose of communicating research findings to the relevant scientific community and the general public . Patents are legal documents used to prevent other people from commercializing the process or devices they describe . Research papers typically report results of a scientific process , whether experimental or not , while patents describe processes and devices along with their respective intended applications . Patents are typically very open-ended , not unlike a very long " future works " - section of an academic paper . The strategy is to cover a maximum of possible usages for the technology . it is not peer reviewed That is correct , peer review is a strategy used by researchers to filter , improve , and curate scientific literature . For patents , the review is driven by the legal requirements only . A major point is absence of overlap with existing patents and other publicly available material * . In some regions , a minimal demonstration of how the process/device works is expected by patent offices , but it 's not the same as peer review . Is it allowed to publish patent and then paper ? Yes , it 's the other way that 's problematic because as stated above , if you ( or someone else ) published a paper about your process or device you can not patent it anymore . Most journals are interested in novel results and all ( legitimate ) journals do n't want to re-publish existing literature but the fact that the processes are patented is not an issue . As stated in my first paragraph , both documents should have very little overlap . * On that subject , see the entertaining if not entirely historically accurate <URL>
As the proud author of many papers with all sorts of numbers of authors , anywhere from just myself to dozens of co-authors , I see no reason to avoid being a single author . In evaluating a researcher , I would only have concern with their ability to collaborate if they show a preponderance of single-author papers . If somebody has a mix of single-author and multi-author papers , then my reaction will instead be more positive , because it shows they are both capable of collaboration and also capable of initiating truly independent work . So : go for it on your single authorship ( and/or inventorship ) ! Just make certain that your co-workers agree with you that they should not be authors/inventors , or else you may have an entirely different type of problem on your hands .
While all these degrees fall under the category of Master of Science there are technical differences in the course content . In general you should always refer to your degree by its actual title/abbreviation . If you think someone might not know what an abbreviation is e.g. on your CV or something , you could add a brief note such as MS ( US Master 's ) but I 'm not sure how useful this really is . Google has all this information readily available . For the particular degrees you list : I 've no idea if there is a difference between an SM and MS , but I 'm not in the US . A US MS is generally two years compared to the UK MSc 's one . I also the impression that the MS is more research focused , although that might just be my view of things . An MSci is a 4 year combined bachelors and masters that is increasingly popular in the UK . Generally students only do a single research project/dissertation in their 4th year which is slightly shorter than an equivalent project for MSc students . So having an Msci is not exactly equivalent to an MSc . This is before you get to some of the more obscure things such as MRes which some UK students do . These are still broadly at Masters level but have different focuses to the course . Just to be clear , I would consider it somewhat dishonest to translated the abbreviation of your degree .
To put the following into context , I teach at a UK university and have delivered courses at a Singapore partner university for many years . In support of many of the above comments , you need have no concerns about the academic establishment in Singapore , at any level , from primary through to university . Education is top of Singapore 's agenda and this is apparent everywhere . Teaching is in english throughout . Singapore 's universities are world-class . The living and working environments are excellent . Cost of living ( apart from housing ) is lower than UK . The transport system is also excellent . Cost of accommodation is the only negative . Apartment rental costs are high - comparable to London . However , if you are appointed on expat terms the University will provide an apartment and the rent will be subsidised ; all large companies that employ expat staff take account of accommodation costs . But you should make sure that you know what type of apartment is on offer and that it meets your family needs . ' Landed properties ' form a very small part of Singapore 's accommodation , the large majority are high-rise apartments . Income tax is much lower than UK levels - you can check this out on the government 's IRAS web page .
Pros : If one supervisor gets <URL> , you still have a second supervisor who is familiar with your work and can thus give constructive comments on it , hopefully appreciate it and in particular evaluate it . Often , your supervisor is the only person at your university who is actually capable of fully understanding and properly judging your thesis and defense . If one supervisor turns bad or turns out to be bad and for example gives bad advice , makes ridiculous demands or even expects you to do questionable things , you can still turn to the other supervisor for advice or to have a serious word with the bad supervisor . If the relationship to the bad advisor goes totally awry , you may have the option to drop them and be supervised by the other supervisor alone . It depends : You may be expected to do more or less work . For example , if you are doing an interdisciplinary work and have one supervisor from each discipline , the supervisors may only understand and value the work you do in their respective half and thus think that you did not do enough . On the other hand , they may also overestimate the work in the respective other half and thus be more easily satisfied . You can benefit from the experience of both supervisors and learn something from one advisor that you can not learn from the other . Cons : You may be affected by disputes between the supervisors . For example the first supervisor may tell you to do something in a certain way and then the second supervisor blames you for it . If aspects of your work require input from both advisors , you may need to wait not only for one supervisor to have time for you but for two . This is in particular difficult , if you need to talk about something with both your supervisors at the same time . Some of the above obviously depends on the details of the relationships between your supervisors and the reason for the co-supervision . Thus , you can only judge yourself , if these points apply to your case and how important they are for you .
I am not sure how you are using the term unemployed . Clearly someone with a paid academic position ( e.g. , adjunct teaching or lab tech ) would not be considered unemployed . I am not sure if you consider an unpaid lab tech or a paid burger flipper as being employed . To me the real issue is being out of the field . If you can not get a relevant paid position and but can afford to be without income for a few months , then a year gap , and probably longer , is n't problematic . In fact many labs will hire unpaid researchers . In this case you could continue to conduct new research , publish , apply for grants , and gain new contacts . You could likely stay in an unpaid position as long as you could afford it without any affects on future job prospects . If you can not get an unpaid research position then it really depends on how long you can milk publications from your past research and produce new research without any affiliation to a research group . If you can not get a relevant paid position and can not afford to be without income for a few months you can sometimes find paid work in a related field . Working as a paid lab tech ( e.g. , washing test tubes ) or adjunct teaching . These types of jobs wo n't help you publish more or get grants and in fact take time away from publishing , research , and getting grants . That said they can provide a limited set of new skills and cotnacts so are probably sustainable for a year or so . In the absence of getting even a peripherally related job taking an unrelated job ( e.g. , burger flipper ) even for a short period ( i.e. , months ) gap can be problematic . Not only will it slow down publishing , research , and grants it may make you less flexible about being able to take up a new related position ( e.g. , how much notice would you have to give ) . You are also not building new skills or contacts . A lot of the impact will depend on how important publication speed is in your field . If a few month delay in publishing will result in you being scooped , any gap is probably bad . Similarly the ability to do research without any resources will help you weather a gap . Similarly , if your field has new instigator grants with a clock that starts ticking upon graduation then gaps are bad .
As Nate notes in his comment , you should talk with your University 's Office of Technology Commercialization , Intellectual Property Office , Office of Technology Transfer , Office of Industrial Programs , or equivalent ( just to give a few key words to search for ) . However , you should be able to just talk with a potential industrial collaborator after signing a mutual non-disclosure agreement that includes the restriction not to exploit each others IP disclosed under the agreement for commercial gain without further negotiation . These kinds of NDA are common in work between industry and academia , and they allow for discussion to begin without everything having to be patented ahead of time . Your university 's industrial office ( as above ) ought to be able to help you draft the NDA . Do n't do it without the support of your university 's attorneys .
If you can write in latex , you should write on it versus word . The latex is specially designed to work with technical documents with a lot of mathematical equations . Also , you can write math equations in word using built-in equation editor of Microsoft word or MathType as a better alternative than built-in ones . See this link for <URL> for equation writing in Word with better configuration . Technically the MathType produces equations with higher equality than Word built-in and I recommend it to use as a macro on Word . About writing in Latex and then revert to Word , it would n't be recommended and will be reduced the quality of equations ( due to reversion complexities and equation editors ' of Word difficulties ) .
If there is a standard in academic typesetting ¹ and typesetting in general , it is to use a narrow space , i.e. : With space : 10 mA ; without space : 10mA ; with narrow space : 10 mA The most suitable Unicode character for this is U +202 F ( narrow no-break space ) . This is also the default setting of the LaTeX packages <URL> and <URL> . The <URL> says ( p. 47 ) : a space is always used to separate the unit from the number . However , it does not specify the width of the space . But at least , using no space at all is against this standard . As for readability , I am not aware of any studies on this , so I can only give you my informed opinion . Consider the following examples ( I use a picture to ensure that we are seeing the same thing and to be able to employ justified text ) : <URL> In the first sentence , no space is used . This makes it take longer to identify the unit as it merges with the numbers , in particular with long numbers . In the second sentence , a full space is used . Units are now read as individual words because that 's how our brain is trained to read full spaces . As our brain is also trained to process words one by one , it will first read and process 192.34 and then continue with K . In the third sentence , where narrow spaces are used , our brain is more likely to process the 192.34 K in one chunk and we also do not have the same problems as in the first sentence . Finally , consider the list in the second and third sentence ( 1 Ω , 2 Ω and 3 Ω ) . With a full space it becomes more difficult for our brains to group what is written into individual items , as , e.g. , the first Ω has almost the same distance from the preceding 1 than from the 2 that follows it . With a narrow space , this is easier . Thus , using a narrow space is a compromise to have number and unit to be seperated less than words but more than the individual digits of the number . ¹ Some journals do not seem to care to make their publications consistent in this respect .
The terminology for longitudinal research designs differs somewhat between disciplines . However , to my knowledge most discipline refer to a " cohort " as an entity that can be distinguished by a certain event as for example the year of birth or graduation from high school . The general idea is that there is an observable variable for the cohort membership and that individuals from the same " cohort " have something in common , e.g. the risk to die from lung cancer due to a common time of exposure . Thus , a " cohort study " looks at one cohort or compares different cohorts . In most cases , cohort studies use longitudinal research designs , but there are also cross-sectional cohort studies . The use of the term " panel study " seems to me more vague but a " panel study " is in most cases a longitudinal study which has at least observations from two points in time . Panel studies do not need to focus on cohorts . Hence , cohort and panel studies both look specifically at the timing of certain events and variables . For further information you could for example have a look at the following articles in the International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences : Mason , W.M. and Wolfinger , N.H. 2001 : Cohort Analysis , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 2189-2194 . Duncan , G.J. 2001 : Panel Surveys : Uses and Applications , in : International Encyclopedia of the Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences , edited by N.J. Smelser and P.B. Baltes , Pergamon , Oxford , pp. 11009-11015 .
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
" Research intensive " and " research extensive " are obsolete terms from the Carnegie classification of research universities . They are terrible , confusing terms that should never have been introduced ( see page 5 of <URL> ) . The idea was that " research extensive " means there 's an extensive research program covering many areas at a high level , which " research intensive " means there 's just a narrowly focused , intensive research program in certain areas . Basically , extensive is supposed to be better than intensive . Of course the problem is that this really is n't what they sound like . For example , most people would say Harvard is a research intensive university , but in this classification it 's not . Because of massive confusion , the Carnegie classification was <URL> to use other terms , but the old terms still persist . One reason is that some people just got used to them and found it hard to develop new habits ; another is that every time the classification changes , some universities end up moving to a less prestigious category than they used to be in , so they have a strong incentive to describe themselves using the old terms .
There is no good reason to simply copy large portions of an existing publication to make a new . By rewriting everything , you have the opportunity to rephrase your thoughts and most likely produce a better paper , at least from a writing point of view . Some journals definietly look at plagiarism and in this case self-plagiarism and the only way to avoid it is to rewrite . I think the benefits of rewriting clearly outweighs the possible time-saving by just copy-pasting . Just to provide an example . I have written tens of papers about the same natural physical object that I have studied . In each paper , I have to provide a descritpion of the locality and characteristics and not once have this been copied . It is in fact interesting to see how many dofferent ways the same ( dull ) information can be conveyed . As for a percentage of new material , I really would advice against relying on a numbr . It is possible this is a silent understanding in some fields but in general , only new insights and conclusion should warrant a new publication . Another year of data or something similar to that is in itself not enough . The paper might be published but such publication strategies are not looked upon favourably in the long term . So , I strongly recomend rewriting each paper and not rely on copy-pasting . I am convinced you will develop as an author and also generate better papers by doing so . consider each paper a separate new entity .
I do n't have any private job experience in Scotland or Netherlands and I do n't know your conditions as well , so I do n't really know what suit 's your conditions indeed . I am focusing on your first question here . Full-time learning is mostly suitable for the candidates who are not aiming to work outside the university . For instance , students who are able to stay full-time in the university and do their academic chores are more encouraged to apply for these discipline . Part-time learning is more suitable for those who want to work outside the university as well as attending their classes and conducting their research at the university . This type suits the people who work outside academia and are not willing to be at the university all the time . Please note that , some universities hire or pay their research students while they are studying at the university . This does not mean that those students are part-time students because they are simply working or hired at the university . These are full-time students who are doing academic work . These are different that part-time student who works in industry . As you mentioned in your question that you are interested in several courses , it comes to my mind that it does not make any difference to you to study in a specific area ; so this eases your way to find a program for yourself . As an instance , in a university , one department may not offer part-time degrees to the applicants while the other department may offer various taught and research part-time programs that the prospective student can easily choose one for himself . However , as far as you are seeking for a degree with the insight to your professional career , I encourage you to choose the course and degree which helps you with your professional responsibilities and your interests . Do n't run , Walk ! Please choose a part-time program wisely ; Please carefully read the regulations of the programs you are applying to and check the minimum requirements for part-time degrees at the university where you want to study . These programs may require some extra application process , interviews or documents for their applicants . The duration of the part-time degree is longer than a full-time degree . For instance , a masters part-time degree will have two year duration compared to one year full-time study . Please note that the duration of the degrees varies from one department to another and one country to another . If you are going to do research in your part-time program , please note that some part-time degrees require their students to do full-time research during their studies . I mean , you have applied to a part-time degree . Although you are allowed to study for a longer period of time ( for instance part-times may take classes in four semesters while full-times are allowed to finish their classes in two semesters ) but the course requires you to spend two semesters full-time research as well . So , please check whether these conditions exist or whether you are eligible for such programs or not . You may need some scholarships/funding to support your studies financially . Then you should double check whether the scholarship covers the part-time degrees or not . To my best of knowledge , some scholarships require the students to attend only full-time courses . Check the cost of the program you are applying for . Although it seems that the full-time students will pay lower fees compared to the full-time students , but , keep in mind that the total payment of both disciplines may be the same and only the part-time student may pay lower amounts of money in each semester . On the other hand , there may be some part-time degrees which are due to higher educational fees . As far as the rules are different in different countries and departments , please check the financial part carefully before you apply for any degrees . Check the accommodation and housing for part-time students as well . Although it seems that you are staying with your family ; if you are seeking to stay in another city where you are working and in this city , you are seeking a part-time degree ; please check whether they offer housing to the part-time students or not . Part-time degrees may only allow you to work inside the city where the university is located . So , if you are working outside the city , check the regulations of the university and see if you can manage to attend your classes regularly or not . Part-time learning differs from distance learning and online degrees . These disciplines have different regulations and their degrees may have lower or higher values in the industry you are working . As far as you need your degree for your professional career , make sure which type suits you well and do not think these degree-types are the same . Pay Attention to your studies too . Please do n't think that because you are working and you are a part-time student ; you are allowed not to study and not to attend your classes and fail the exams . Your role at the university is studying and res
I do n't think there can be any studies to confirm or deny something like that , simply because neither " good teacher " nor " good researcher " can be quantified objectively without bias , and in the absence of that , how can you compare ? But qualitatively , I think the conclusion naturally follows in most cases - both require one to be enthusiastic about their subject in the first place , and require a certain depth of comprehension before they can either publish their results or interact with inquisitive students successfully !
Cumulative dissertation is probably a literal translation of the German Kumulative Dissertation , which denotes a <URL> , i.e. , a thesis which typically consists of some peer-reviewed publications , an introduction , and a conclusion . The alternative to this is a monograph thesis , which is written separately as a coherent monolithic work and whose individual chapters are not intended for being read on their own . The requirements on such a cumulative dissertation differ between universities and even faculties , so you have to look into their rules for those .
Any matter that one finds novel or improvement over a conventionally used method supported by practical results , simulation , or theoretical construction deserves to be published as a research article ( paper ) . In your cases , the following applies . A 's article could be a research paper provided her/his method is novel or unconventional . B 's article could also be a research paper as such papers are available for life sciences as well as historical biographies . C 's article ca n't be classified as a research paper although it can be recalled as a survey paper . D 's article do not have sufficient qualities for a research or survey paper . It may be published as a news or magazine article .
Wikipedia has a <URL> . In essence : the term " polytechnic " comes from the French <URL> . Thus , a university with ' Polytechnic ' in its name is typically one that was influenced in its founding in some way by the French system . Today , however , there is generally no significant difference .
To expand on Yuichiro Fujiwara 's comment , " peer review " and " refereeing " are exact synonyms , and no differences at all are implied by the names . For historical reasons , some fields are more likely to use one term than the other ( for example , mathematicians talk more often about refereeing than peer review ) . Publishing practices also differ between fields in other ways , such as the length of the reviewing process . There might be a weak correlation with the use of terms like peer review and refereeing , since both issues are heavily influenced by which field you are looking at . However , I 'd bet that any correlations are small , and in any case this is not a productive way to investigate journal differences ( since knowing the field would tell you enormously more than just knowing which term the journal uses for peer review ) .
There 's no general answer to the question . It depends on the individual course . If the course is designed so that grades are earned for demonstrating achievement of a learning outcome , then there will be a strong correlation between having high grades and achieving the learning outcomes of the course . If the course is designed so that grades are earned for things that do n't demonstrate achievement of a learning outcome , or so that students can achieve a learning outcome but not have an opportunity to demonstrate it to earn a grade , then the correlation will be weak . Also , your general description of " learning a subject " may not necessarily be strongly correlated with the desired learning outcomes of a course . It 's possible to earn a poor grade for a well-designed course even after having " learned the subject " if the course has specific learning outcomes ( i.e. , " Students will know how to solve a certain class of problem , " " Students will have learned this particular skill " ) and what you are learning about the subject happens to be orthogonal to those learning outcomes .
end question
start question
How difficult is it to get a paid PhD studentship in physics in Germany ?
Good grades can help , but they are n't the be all and end all . If you put together a great CV and have positive references then you 've got a good chance of gaining an interview . More important than grades I think is simply showing that you are , and will be , a good researcher . Not every great academic was a hotshot from Harvard in their undergrad years . And not everyone with a perfect GPA from Harvard would make a good academic . I can tell you from personal experience that you do n't need amazing grades to get a PhD scholarship . Just put your best foot forward in proving that you 're an excellent researcher and go for gold .
As flo said , it totally depends on the university . In principle , you can become PhD student at any German university if you Have someone eligible ( normally a professor in the department ) who declares that she/he will supervise you , and You meet the requirements from the examination regulations for the PhD . In the majority of cases , the examination regulations can be found on the web . Many departments do not list a formal " grade " requirements , but some do . Typically , the grades are only given in German style , so there is room for interpretation when translating foreign grades . GPAs are pretty much unknown in Germany . Admission officers will look at the grades ( e.g. , A-F , where F means fail ) and if the institution where the grade has been awarded is " OK " . Summary grades are expressed in the same system as the individual grades . To make this part of the answer complete , as you are probably aware , it is normally a requirement to have a Masters degree before you can start with a PhD . Structured programs , such as graduate schools , typically have their own rules on top of these . Again , standard vary , and you should be able to find some information on the home page of the respective graduate school .
This really depends on what kind of U-turn you want to make and what kind of additional resources you avail yourself of . In this day and age , because we have access to so many resources ( from university extension courses to online classes to self study via Youtube and the WWW ) , a dedicated student can build their skills in a field not necessarily related to their undergraduate degree . That said , it depends what kind of U-turn you want to make . To pick up your example , if you have a BA in Art History and you want to get an MS in Physics , I doubt that any serious program is going to let you waltz right in . However , if you took a series of courses through a university extension program , or , perhaps , even online , that covered the terrain of an undergraduate physics program -- and if you also demonstrated your competence and interest in the field through an independent research program , you would probably be able to find a program somewhere . On the other hand , if you have a BS is a technical field and you want to get an MA , programs are usually more accommodating . In my field ( politics and policy ) , students with an undergraduate BS can often add substantial value because they have an in-depth understanding of math and programming that allows them to gain more traction when analyzing research questions using quantitative methods . In either case , it will greatly improve your chances of admission if you can articulate why you want to make the U-turn and also explain how your particular path adds value to the program you are applying to . If you find a school and a program that excites you , try contacting some of the professors at the program and see if you can meet or talk with them . During the conversation , you can make the case why you want to move into their field and ask them how you can best prepare yourself . " This above all ; to thine own self be true " -- W. Shakespeare
This may be subject-dependent , but my impression is that it is certainly not like that in mathematics ( my subject ) . I come from New Zealand and would probably like to return to live there eventually , but I 'm expecting to have to do at least one more postdoc ( I 'm already on my second , but my first was just one year ) before I have any chance of a permanent job there . ( And I do know people there who I think probably like me and , more importantly , are interested in my research . ) There are so few universities in New Zealand ( eight , but one is small and primarily agricultural , I think ) that there are by no means anywhere near enough academic jobs available to employ all New Zealanders with PhDs and postdocs from ' good ' universities . Still , I can imagine that if your student does indeed ' know people who like him ' in New Zealand , his chances may very well be better there than for US universities of comparable standard ( this is assuming that ' liking him ' partly includes being impressed with his academic work ) .
Statistics on institutions should be taken with 14,000,000 grains of salt : some institutions have changed name over time ( including many recently , e.g. in France many institutions were forking twenty years ago and are now merging back ) , and affiliation rules vary widely between authors ( you 'll see below huge contributions from state-wide agencies like " Russian academy of science " or " CNRS " , they are not the same as universities or labs ) . But , you can do it with many bibliographic search tools . Here 's how to do with Web of Science : Make a regular search ( here I chose " title " , but you can do something more complicated ) On the results page , click on the " Analyze Results " link Choose your field of interest ( here , organizations ) Enjoy !
In the American style , at least , your acknowledgements are yours to do with what you like . Other answers on this site include <URL> or <URL> . Thus , if you feel thankful to the members of your committee , you should feel free to thank them in your acknowledgements section .
Getting a PhD almost always requires one to have some original contribution to your field . That result does n't always have to be an earth shattering proof of something completely original . Your work can build upon existing work , or draw connections between a variety of different topics that no one has noticed yet , or even just suggest that there is a problem that nobody has considered yet . The point is that there has to be something unique , and original that counts as your contribution to the body of knowledge . That is n't easy to do certainly , but it is n't impossible for normal people to accomplish through lots of time and hard work either .
Good grades can help , but they are n't the be all and end all . If you put together a great CV and have positive references then you 've got a good chance of gaining an interview . More important than grades I think is simply showing that you are , and will be , a good researcher . Not every great academic was a hotshot from Harvard in their undergrad years . And not everyone with a perfect GPA from Harvard would make a good academic . I can tell you from personal experience that you do n't need amazing grades to get a PhD scholarship . Just put your best foot forward in proving that you 're an excellent researcher and go for gold .
Taking the job would probably mean permanently leaving academia behind , and giving up the prospects of ever finishing your Ph.D. . If you 're okay with that ( which you might well be ) , then I think it 's fine to take the industry job . I also recommend trying to figure out what your future job prospects are if you decide to finish your degree ( and conversely , what your future job prospects might be if you take this industry job and it does n't pan out ) . The comparison to your PhD salary seems a bit strange unless your circumstances are unusual ( e.g. you really need the money now ) . Whatever you decide , I recommend putting your own future first , and thinking less both about your present salary and about your PhD advisor .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
I am not aware of any absolute measure for this . However , you can have a general idea by : Some schools provide last year ( s ) statistics about their programs ( usually in the prospective student section ) . For example , program A has attracted X number of applications and Y applications were accepted . Also , some programs have a fix limit ( i.e. due to number of equipments available ) for number of applications to be accepted . Sometimes online admission results like the one in <URL> give you a sense on how strict the school is .
The proportion of " homegrown " to " ... imported ? " PhDs varies depending on your discipline , but at the science end of things ( I 'm in computer science , but know plenty of mathematicians and also majored in chemistry as an undergraduate ) it 's quite international . Apart from pathological cases ( known " bad " universities , or otherwise extremely dubious universities ) , where you got your PhD is not particularly important . As Jeromy says in another answer , international experience is definitely viewed favourably though . My having done my doctorate overseas has definitely been a boon . The real criteria are performance based ; publications , teaching ( especially awards or other recognition ) and ability to bring in the grant money ! ( That last one in quite important , for better or worse ) . As a recent Doctorate , you 'll mainly need to show that you can conduct quality research . Just for some completely non-statistically-significant stats , my Australian undergrad . chemistry department had about 50 % overseas PhDs , my CS department had more like 90 % overseas PhDs and my maths department had about 50 % too . At my current ( Australian ) department ( CS ) , it 's probably about 70-80 % overseas PhDs ( though that 's a guesstimate at the moment ) , including me . Of course the caveat is , again , this will change from department to department and university to university . Some like to only hire their own graduates , others will never hire their own graduates . Your best course is really to contact the academics offering the jobs , establish a bit of an informal relationship and find out what each position is looking for .
There are students with math major ( and other major ) go to physics graduate school , but I think all of them have taken physics courses . The first question you should ask yourself is that why you are interested in theoretical physics . If you were the admission committee and see an applicant said that they are interested in physics but taken no physics courses , what do you think ? You must explain it in somewhere in your personal statement . The first thing you should do is to take physics courses and get good grade on all of them . Also , you should try taking few graduate courses . There are no need to take courses on all topics , you should only have strong interest in few topics such as QM , EM , SM , QFT and string theory . Some of them are very mathematical ( that good for you ) . Doing so can demonstrate your interest in physics . Second , you might try to apply for master program in physics . It is easier to get in and after 1 or 2 years you can apply for PhD in physics to continue your study . One more options is to apply for math department , in particular , you should look for applied math . There are usually few professors studying mathematical physics . It is particular true for some countries that the theoretical physicists stay in the math department and experimental physicists stay in physics department . Assuming you have good background in mathematics , it should be the easiest option for you to get in those school and start studying theoretical physics .
It is common for graduates to jump between communications , electronics , computer science domains . But it is usually not so for something like genetic engineering even though it is considered an interdisciplinary field . Institutions might expect graduation from either of biotechnology , molecular biology , microbiology or biochemistry . This would however be different for fields such as genomics and bioinformatics where institutions do accept CS graduates provided they have a background in areas like data analytics , machine learning , data mining , data science and the like . As this would depend on the eligibility and preference criteria of the institution concerned , it would be better for your to consult with the prospective institution that would offer the program desired .
If you are applying to programs in the US , more important than your grades in English classes is your performance on the TOEFL . Many universities have a minimum TOEFL score required before the department can even consider your application , and these rules are often difficult or impossible for the department to bend , even for an exceptionally attractive candidate . There is more information in the answers to <URL> . ( For example , someone there mentions that the minimums at " Yale and Stanford are about 100 , Harvard is 109 " -- out of 120 points total . ) Given the quality of the English in your original question ( before it was improved by helpful editors ) , I do n't think you can afford to blow off your English classes if you have any hope of studying in the US .
I do n't think what you 're describing is all that common , and I 've never heard of any sort of systematic program , but it does happen . I ended up spending two months abroad during grad school to participate in a once off trimester program in my area of specialty . There were n't any standard arrangements in place , though : my home university ( very generously ) moved things around so I could do it . I think I 've heard of other cases , all similarly involving unique circumstances like faculty moving around or particular personal connections .
It certainly depends on the department you 're in . Some departments have small PhD programs and largely focused on undergraduate and master 's programs . In that case , you may get away with just not having PhD students . On the other hand , at most Research-1 universities , math departments have 1.5-2 PhD students per tenure-track faculty . Of course , faculty do not evenly assume mentorship roles for them , but there is an expectation that one does , in fact , supervise some . It is not uncommon to have an expectation that , for example , one has to have graduated one PhD student before promotion to full professor . In general , the way to see this most productively is probably to remember that a university is an institution of higher education . If a department has a PhD program as an important component , then it is a reasonably expectation that every tenure-track faculty participates in it by ( i ) teaching graduate courses , and ( ii ) advising PhD students . If you actively try to get out of one or both of these parts of your job , you 're not doing your job . The situation is no different than teaching and service : it 's part of your job , and whether you do or do not like this part makes no difference in the expectations that are put on you .
You do not a have a leg to stand on , legally , morally or otherwise . The thing you should actually indict them for is not responding to your emails . That is rude ; I think you should probably accept that as an implicit rejection . If they were still thinking of admitting you they would have checked on your status by this point . The issue with your argument is that it does n't actually follow the text of the resolution . The binding part of resolution you cited says " Students are under no obligation to respond to offers of financial support prior to April 15 . " So , schools have agreed not to withdraw an offer because you have n't accepted it before April 15th , and not to try to hold you to an offer you 've accepted if you change your mind before April 15th . The school in question has held to their end of the bargain perfectly , since they never made you an offer . The resolution says nothing about the school having to make a decision before April 15th . Of course , schools are well aware that it will be much harder to get people after April 15th , so they make an effort to make offers earlier . However , this is not a deal , this is the department acting in their own self-interest . Unfortunately , there 's too much uncertainty in the process to guarantee you 'll make all offers before April 15th . After all , you have some plan for what your incoming class will be , you make offers to many more people than that , and you hope that you guessed the yield correctly . If the people who 've already been offered admission are waiting until April 15th to make up their minds , you 're then left with a great deal of uncertainty as the deadline approaches , since it will be a big problem if your incoming class is such bigger or much smaller than you planned . Thus , there often are people who you are not sure you want to reject , but not sure you have the money to fund . In my department , we still have a number of people waitlisted , since we have n't filled our class yet . Usually , such people will be formally notified they are on a waitlist ; I think again , that 's in the department 's self-interest and helps clarify things for the student . So , again , it 's likely this is an implicit rejection , which for whatever reason they have n't bothered to formalize .
I started with my PhD two years ago , and I understand what you 're asking . There is large number of things you want to consider before enrolling in PhD , I 'll try to summarize my experience and some advises . Bottom line , when applying to PhD you want to make sure that you have these things covered : Clear understanding of what your future research will be . When you start working on your studies , passing exams ( in case you have formal exams as I do ) you 'll want to link these subjects to your main research as much as possible . Make sure you found mentor . I guess this will be professor who offer you PhD , but it can vary depending on field of studies . Check options of scholarship , since PhD studies and research can be quite expensive , depending on your area . Interesting resources and links related to this subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> < -- check this one <URL> < -- Nice checklist Related to funding/scholarships , inside a site findaphd there are 2 sections to be considered : <URL> <URL> Now , about more important matter - choosing good PhD subject , mentor and defining a hypothesis . My biggest challenge was finding out what my specific subject will be ( and what domain will it be applied to ) , cause every mentor expect you to have idea what you want to do . If you try to simply " Google it " it wo n't be of much use . Few approaches helped me here : Open account on <URL> , publish some of your earlier papers and works . After that connect to a people with a same research interests as yours and read their papers and current issues . You 'll be surprised what you 'll find after just couple of days . When you search for books use <URL> instead of simple Google , you 'll find lots of interesting papers on your subject probably . Try to find " problems " , cause your future work MUST provide new benefit , you must solve problem . In order to solve it , you 'll first read about current state of that problem . To summarize it , these are steps you probably want to take : Define your field of research Define domain and mentor Find scholarship module Open account on Academia.edu and upload your papers Research Academia.edu and Google Scholar for issues and opportunities Define hypothesis and general idea for your future PhD Prepare everything in nice documentation and enroll All best ,
Submitting an academic paper for publication ( and potentially getting it accepted ) does not require any qualifications whatsoever . You do n't need a PhD ; you do n't even need to have gone to college . There are no educational , employment , or membership requirements at all . That 's not to say it 's easy to get a paper accepted with no formal training in the field . Learning how to write a compelling paper is much easier if you have a mentor to offer guidance . However , if you can figure out how to do it without a PhD , then your lack of a PhD will not be held against you .
end question
start question
PhD in the US with an MSc from another country : coursework exemption ?
It depends on the department . I have been looking at various applied mathematics departments in the USA and all of them want PhD students to go through the coursework and obtain an MS , even if they already did a masters degree before . I think in general , there is no chance to skip coursework . This is probably because different universities have different standards and syllabuses for the same course . And they want to ensure everyone is up to the same standard and have taken the same syllabus . But do check with the department , there are always exceptions . P.S. However , it does n't have to be a " waste " of two years . The level of the course might be higher and you are probably able to choose different courses to get broader experiences . If all else fails and you are able to ace all the courses with no problem , you can always spend the extra time looking for a thesis adviser or find research collaborators .
It depends on the department . I have been looking at various applied mathematics departments in the USA and all of them want PhD students to go through the coursework and obtain an MS , even if they already did a masters degree before . I think in general , there is no chance to skip coursework . This is probably because different universities have different standards and syllabuses for the same course . And they want to ensure everyone is up to the same standard and have taken the same syllabus . But do check with the department , there are always exceptions . P.S. However , it does n't have to be a " waste " of two years . The level of the course might be higher and you are probably able to choose different courses to get broader experiences . If all else fails and you are able to ace all the courses with no problem , you can always spend the extra time looking for a thesis adviser or find research collaborators .
Based on <URL> , I would guess the answer is : officially , no . It seems quite unlikely to me that there is some other standard of intellectual honesty specifically set up for " Executive Doctoral " student , since it is such a new category . It certainly sounds to me like this person is asking you do an inappropriate amount of work toward their doctorate ; doctoral students are n't expected to be completely isolated ( much of my thesis was based on joint work ) , but asking you to rewrite seems like crossing a line . It 's up to you to decide what you want to do , and whether you feel comfortable with the work . You could always contact the person 's advisor , but you should be prepared for that to burn your bridge with this person .
There is relatively little funding of the sort you are looking for -- funding that non-U.S. residents can apply for directly to fund post-doctoral work inside the U.S. However , that is not really that important , since that is not how most post-doc positions are funded anyway . Most post-docs do not apply for their own funding . The funding comes from the institution that hires the post-doc ( Very often -- but not always -- the money ultimately comes from a research grant from an outside agency , but the post-doc would not be involved in writing or administering the grant . ) If an institution has funds for a post-doc , they will advertise a job opening and hire somebody . Generally , the search is global ; they would be willing to hire somebody from anywhere in the world , provided they are a qualified . ( There are some technical caveats about how this works , but they are of little import in practice ; and -- again -- they are things that the hiring institution mostly needs to worry about , not the person they choose to hire . )
You joined a PhD program without a master 's degree ? Well ... a master of science is about doing an small version of a PhD . In that sense , it could be beneficial to show that you do have some experience in research . On the other hand , the fact that you left , probably without results or something to prove how well did you do it so far , might not be so positive . But anyway , honesty should be the most important thing , and you should n't hide what you have done before . Also , it is definitely more beneficial to fill those gaps on your CV with the PhD time , instead of letting them think that you were just lounging around ...
Almost invariably , the answer to " Is it OK to submit X for a class assignment ? " is " Ask the instructor . " . You do need to ask yourself whether your objective for the geochemistry class is to get a good grade , or to improve your knowledge and skills in the area of geochemistry , or both . Even if the instructor agrees with recycling the old paper , you may get more out of the class if you pick a different topic and write a new paper .
Basically , admissions decisions follow from two main issues : government policies regarding funding and immigration the available pool of applicants For instance , recent policies in California made it very difficult for the University of California system to enroll international graduate students . This was not the result of internal decisions , but rather something imposed upon them by the government . Similarly , a visa embargo applied to a particular country would make it impossible for a university to bring in students from that country . Other than that , I think most graduate admissions groups are looking for the best available talent , rather than having a specific quota of domestic or international students . They might do some recruiting domestically if they 're not getting enough domestic candidates ( compared to any " targets " they might have ) , but I do n't think they 're going to admit domestic candidates that are unqualified just because they 're domestic .
My first job after my PhD was as a consultant . I suggest being selective with respect to what , and how much of your coursework to include . Your degree speaks for your potential , and there is little use adding too much detail that is implied by it ( in particular if you graduated from a reputable school ) . You want your CV to be one page only , so do n't clutter it . Begin with a brief executive summary , which generically could read like " Information system PhD with strong skills in ( insert - say , system programming/data analysis / ... ) and communication ( from X years as a teaching assistant ) . " Find something jazzy that you think fits you . You can add relevant course work experience in a " skills " section , as appropriate , and further add anything valuable under " awards and honors " ( if nothing else fits , do n't shy away from mentioning performing well/near top/top of class in course work ) . It 's also ok to maybe highlight some particularly relevant coursework ( with grades ) . It would definitely help if your thesis work ( which you should summarize ) could be linked to the typical consulting job ( bringing structure where little was before ) . At the bottom of the page , add three academic references if any of your faculty might be known in industry . Two more points : I do n't remember what the person 's job name and description was , but in my case , I found someone at my school who proof-read my CV with lots of feedback ( my initial version sucked badly ) . Secondly , you tend to read to de-emphasize your academic background in industry ( eg , " list it after professional experience " ) , but this is simply not true for at least 2-5 years , depending , as your PhD will stay your greatest achievement for a while . Take it with a grain of salt as I 've been out of this for a while . Best of luck !
So long as you meet or exceed ( but not by too much ! ) the graduate admission requirements of a department , there 's no reason you should n't be able to study there . There 's no fixed rule that says that you ca n't do a master 's in India then do one in the US as well . ( If there is such a rule , it applies only to the departments or universities that impose them ; there are no universal rules that govern US graduate admissions . ) The best bet is , of course , to contact the schools you 're interest in attending and ask them directly what their policies are .
Yes . When a degree is required prior to starting a program , that degree is needed in order to enrol , but not to apply .
Identify the offline equivalent of the observed behavior , and then act as you would normally . Remember , that the burden of proof for academic dishonesty likely resides with you . This includes verifying that the poster is indeed the student you accuse . I find this situation to be pretty common : <URL> . Most stackexchanges have a <URL> policy . I would consider homework questions posted to stackexchanges to be no worse than asking students who have taken the course before you or asking another professor . How you deal with it is up to you . What would your response be if you saw a student collaborating on the problem in a study group ? How do you respond if you find out that your student asked another instructor or a grad student in your department for help ? If you learn the student worked on that problem with his/her tutor ? If the student looked up the answer in the textbook or the solutions manual ? All of these are common and to varying degrees accepted ( if not liked ) . I would guess your irritation over this is somewhere more than the student asking one of your colleagues ( who being nice will actually do the problem ) and somewhat less than the student stealing another student 's answer . Identify the offline equivalent , and then behave as you would normally . EDIT - I missed the last part of the question . I have a good idea who the student is , but no definitive proof . How would you handle this situation ? If you do not have proof , then suck it up and let it go - this time . Next time put something in your syllabus . Either write a pretty severe sounding policy that exists to deter the behavior ( because your policy will be basically unenforceable ) , or write harder questions and encourage them to use online forums with the caveat that they document all of their interaction . The second option shifts the burden of good behavior to your students .
In the U.S. , " professor emeritus " simply means " retired professor " . It 's a courtesy title offered to retiring professors to acknowledge their continued scholarly role even after formal retirement . It typically includes library privileges and a computer account , and emeritus professors may also have offices ( this depends on departmental policy and the availability of space ) . It 's sometimes possible to teach , but this is a special arrangement rather than a job requirement . At many universities every retired faculty member is offered this title , with rare exceptions for people who committed misconduct or angered the administration . At other universities one has to apply for the title and make a case for why it is justified . In particular , professor emeritus is not a higher title or special distinction . It can be viewed as a retirement incentive : even after retirement , you 'll still have a respected role as well as necessities like library access . However , there 's no advantage to becoming an emeritus professor beyond the benefits of retiring from your job ( i.e. , giving up duties and focusing only on what you prefer ) .
Mathematics Let me specify that by transferring , I mean moving to another university in the middle of a graduate program . Switching universities between undergrad and grad or between a master 's degree and a Ph.D. is very different . Basically , those are the only mainstream opportunities to move , and anything else will require an exception . Transferring is certainly not unheard of , but there are some serious caveats : It 's difficult to transfer to a substantially more prestigious department . It can happen , but the admissions committee will be very skeptical , and it 's just not going to work out unless the application is outstanding . In particular , many committee members specifically do not want to reward rolling the dice again and seeing what happens , so for transfers the question is not " Does this application look better than our weaker students ? " but rather " Is this application so obviously wonderful that we would be shooting ourselves in the foot if we accepted someone else instead ? " Expressing any unhappiness will make it much harder to transfer . You may think you 'll be happy at the new school , but they will worry about ending up with an unhappy , unproductive grad student on their hands . And they are right to worry about that : the best predictor of future happiness is past happiness , and many unhappy people have unrealistic beliefs about what would make them happy . It 's hard to transfer once you start seriously working on a thesis . If your work is n't going well , then that 's a reason not to accept you . If your work is going well , then that 's a reason you should continue working with your current advisor . Unless your advisor has died or left , it will be tough to convince anyone you are a good candidate for transferring . No matter why you say you want to transfer , there will be some suspicion that your goal is to end up in a stronger department or a more desirable location . If you have another reason , you 'll have to make a powerful argument for it . I 've heard of people transferring between graduate schools because of their advisor moving to another school and taking their students with them . Sometimes they transfer officially , and sometimes they still get degrees from the previous school but complete their theses while in residence at the new school . The latter is generally easy to arrange when an advisor moves .
I 'm not sure whether the fact that he is Italian makes any difference in the choice of a gift , but anyway here are my suggestions . Maybe they wo n't help you , but hopefully some students of mine will read this ( ha ha ! ) . Avoid the shirt and your PhD thesis ( do n't take it personally , but PhD theses do n't make a nice night reading ... ) . A good book , if you know his reading tastes , or a gift card to be spent in a bookshop ( if you 're in London there are wonderful bookshops ) . If you buy a book you can think of writing inside it a short dedication ( so long and thanks for all the fish ... ) A bottle of wine or two . However , as far as I know , it might not be easy to find a good bottle of wine at a reasonable price in UK . Chocolate , yes : a chunk or a bar of good dark chocolate is typically welcome .
I agree with the points in J.R. 's answer . I 'd like to specifically address your question : " What if I re-apply to another school and hide my records in this school ? " This is a very bad idea . As pointed out in J.R. 's comment , most departments will require as part of your application that you list all schools you have attended , and send your transcripts . It would be unethical to omit your current program , and judging from your comments on J.R. 's answer about copied homework , ethical behavior is very important to you ( which I commend ) . And on a purely practical level , it 's extremely risky ; if you get caught , it may very well end your career in physics and academia . It is true that in the US , federal privacy laws prohibit your current institution ( let 's call it University X ) from releasing your education records without your permission . However , these rules do not apply to so-called " directory information " , which include your name and dates of attendance . If University Y calls up University X and asks if you have ever attended there , X will tell them . They wo n't tell them how you did while you were there or why you left , but Y will know that you falsified your application . So if anyone at Y ever suspects that you attended X , they can verify it . If you do n't mention X in your application , Y may not think to do this . But if they eventually find out ( and they probably will , see below ) , you 'll be kicked out of the program and the years you spent at Y will have been wasted . If you received a fellowship or tuition waiver , you could potentially be required to pay it back . If you make it to graduation but they find out later , your degree could be revoked ; this will probably get you fired from whatever job you hold by then . Basically , once this becomes known , your professional career will be over . It 's a Sword of Damocles . And it 's going to be very hard to ensure that nobody at Y ever finds out you were at X. Interview questions : " So what were you doing for the two years after your bachelor 's ? " You 'll have to never mention your time there or anyone you knew at X in any conversation with advisors , professors , or fellow students . And the academic world is small : there 's a very good chance that your advisor or someone else at Y knows someone at X , and your name could easily come up in casual conversation . " Hey , I saw your new paper with your student user10165 ; I guess he 's come a long way since his time with us at X. " Summary : Do n't do this .
From the <URL> : NSF rarely provides support to foreign organizations . NSF , however , will consider proposals for cooperative projects involving U.S. and foreign organizations , provided support is requested only for the U.S. portion of the collaborative effort . For further information , contact the Office of International Science and Engineering . ( Reference GPG Chapter I.E. 6 . ) Individual funding opportunities list specific eligibility requirements . These generally say something like " The PI must hold an appointment at an eligible US institution . " There is an <URL> specifically devoted to encouraging international collaboration , and there are often specific funding opportunities earmarked for collaboration with a particular country . You 'll find examples of many such opportunities on the linked page . Having said that , it 's not impossible for NSF money to trickle down to foreign researchers . For example , I am at a US institution and I participate in a project supported by the NSF , in which our budget includes a subcontract arrangement involving researchers in Australia . As far as the NSF is concerned , this money is paid to a US institution ( mine ) , but we are allowed to use some of it to pay our foreign colleagues as subcontractors . ( The details of this arrangement were of course specified up front in our proposal . ) Specific grants may have different requirements with respect to subcontracting to foreign institutions .
I am editing an ISI listed journal and have also noticed that the editorials I or others write end up as if they were regular publications and obtain citations . I do not think they should be considered as such but believe it simply is a flaw in the system . The persons entering data or who made the system that scans published papers simply can not distinguish between editorials and papers , despite the word " Editorial : " occurring in the title of such contributions in " my " journal . Since these editorials are not reviewed by others than the editors-in chief ( in my case ) they are not fully peer reviewed and would definitely not pass a regular review since they were never intended as journal articles . So , do one want to put an editorial " paper " in the CV ? I do not think it belongs under the heading of papers published in refereed journals . But , having written an editorial means you have been instrumental to produce a thematic journal issue and so you can list it in conjunction with " meriting academic missions " ( or whatever you might call it ) . It will represent the journal issue and the work done there which , in my opinion , is probably worth more than a paper . The fact that it might also be cited can be taken as indicating interest in the jorunal issue that you have summarized in the editorial , but should be kept separate from regular papers . I should add as a final note that the key for me is whether or not the contribution has been properly peer reviewed . I doubt many editorial receive proper peer review .
Yes , you 're right , " starting research " prior to an adequate basic education can result in huge wastes of time . But it also makes little sense to " wait a few years " until all the required coursework is done . And , yes , even then , one is not over-educated . Seriously , I think ( and recommend to my students ) that they maintain several different threads . The two main ones are attention to standard core material and more advanced courses , while also trying to skip forward to read about current events . The trickier third thread is trying to back-fill from current events to " standard material " , as needed . Almost any choice of " single thread " seems misguided .
The first school wo n't like it , but there would be nothing to stop your brother from backing out of the first offer and accepting the second offer , unless the schools work closely together to prevent this from occurring , which seems highly unlikely , especially because their notification dates differ so greatly . If your brother is accepted to the second program , the most courteous way to inform the first program would be : as quickly as possible , so they can accept someone from their waiting list or otherwise make use of the information . without insulting the first program . For example , he might write something like : I realize that , as grateful as I am for admission into your program , pursuing it would not be the right thing for me to do at this time and that I should not have accepted your offer . I am very sorry that I have to withdraw my acceptance . I hope it is not too late for you to offer the place to a student who is a better fit for your program .
There is an obvious downside of staying at the same university -- you will only work with one set of advisors and contacts throughout your career . That will mean that you may not benefit from the experience and diversity of viewpoints and philosophies that comes from working with different groups of people across the length of your career . However , if there is a compelling reason to remain at your school , that 's a different situation . This could be financial , personal , or educational . For instance , a family member may have a job that makes it difficult to relocate , or a new project may be starting up that provides a unique educational opportunity . Beyond that , though , I would lean towards going somewhere else for your PhD program !
end question
start question
My advisor said he has to mention my mental health condition in recommendation letters . How much can he say ?
I would like to know how much he can write about my mental health , also considering that the academic work did n't suffer at all from this . According to <URL> of organizations : " The Americans with Disabilities Act recognizes that employers may sometimes have to disclose medical information about applicants or employees . " But also they claim : " The basic legal principle that employers should follow is not to reveal medical information about you unless there is a legitimate business reason to do so . But because that standard is fairly vague , there are laws which more specifically protect the privacy of your medical records , such as the Americans with Disabilities Act , the law which makes it illegal to discriminate on the basis of an employee 's disability . " For UK you may find more information on <URL> website and <URL> . If you ask me I would say that it is not actually ethical to write about your mental health if your job did n't suffer from that . For some careers there are some health restrictions ( e.g. pilots , surgeons , etc. ) but I 've never seen that for academic work . More to say , I know people who have GAD , OCD , etc. and they have never had significant issues in academic life . But I also have to say that people usually do n't take year off because of mental health issue , especially not for GAD . From your post I ca n't see if the GAD is a main reason of one year off . If it is n't the main reason then I do n't understand why your supervisor has a need to write it in recommendation letter . But , if GAD is your main reason why you needed to stay away from University than I do n't understand how your mental health did n't affect your productivity when it is even though you continued to work . Whatever the case is , I would n't like that my supervisor writes " a mental issue " because for me it sounds serious and Generalized Anxiety Disorder actually does n't sound due to prevalence " <URL> " Shortly , I do n't think he should write about your mental health when you obviously continued to work . It is your private information , there are some laws about it and I am worried that you will be discriminate because of that . My advice : Talk with your supervisor , find out why he thinks that he is forced to write it in recommendation letter ( that is really strange ) and please look more into the laws and send them to him if it is needed .
In the US in math my understanding is : For the NSF fellowship follows the rules to a T. For other postdocs there 's probably no harm in submitting an extra letter , but there 's also rarely a compelling reason to do so . For tenure track positions it is common , and not frowned upon , to submit 4 or 5 research letters instead of the requested 3 research letters . If you have a compelling reason to submit more ( for example , you work between two adjacent fields ) then go ahead , but if you do n't have a compelling reason you 're also not going to be penalized for sticking with 3 research letters . It 's better to have all the letters be great than to have more letters . There 's a lot of discussion about this in the comments on <URL> .
Professors are really ( really ) busy . Most likely he simply did not have time yet to reply to your email . Or maybe he is at a conference and does not have access to the previous two letters on his office computer . He will probably reply to your message later . To get his recommendation letter quickly the best thing you can do is make it as easy for him as possible . Because you already have two of his letters I suggest you write your own new recommendation letter based on these two , send it to him by email , and ask him to sign it . This is quite common , at least in the different labs in the UK and France where I have worked : many professors ask students to write their own letter , after which they may make a few changes and sign it . This saves them lots of time . Also , make sure to let him know when your deadline is so he understands the urgency .
First , please know that you are not alone and that it is possible to pursue a graduate education even with mental health issues . Several studies have actually indicated very high rates ( as much as 40-60 % ) of anxiety and depression among graduate students ( Arnold , 2014 ; Bernstein , 2015 ; Wyatt &amp; Oswalt , 2013 ) . So , there are students who have mental health issues who are still pursuing a higher degree . That said , just because it is common does n't mean it is accepted . Stigma is common in academia , as it is in the rest of society ( Pescosolido , 2013 ) , and students may fear being stigmatized if they discuss or reveal their condition . Also , mental health issues , like any physical illness , bring additional challenges that must be managed . Fortunately , there are several things you can do to identify the self-management approaches that may help you succeed . ( As personal context , I have a neurological condition and have experienced periods of depression . I am successfully engaged in a doctoral program ) . Take care of yourself You rightly noted that some of your cognitive difficulties may be due to your mental health symptoms . Depression , anxiety , and ADHD have all been shown to compromise executive function , such as attention , concentration , memory , and problem solving ( Biederman et al. , 2006 ; Castaneda , Tuulio-Henriksson , Marttunen , Suvisaari , &amp; Lönnqvist , 2008 ) . As you continue with treatment , you may find that some of these difficulties begin to resolve . Whether you pursue graduate school or work , prioritizing your own health and wellness is key ( Myers , 2012 ) . Some graduate programs are notorious for suggesting students engage in " self-care " but have such grueling schedules that this is difficult . Guard your well-being ruthlessly . If your physical and mental well-being suffer , so will your performance in other areas of life . Specific suggestions : Be open with your mental health providers about your academic and career intentions . Discuss treatment options in the context of being able to effectively function in a graduate school environment . If you find certain medications are causing side effects that impact your academic functioning , bring it up and address it . Determine whether there is a risk of developing a tolerance to your medications so that they would become ineffective . If that 's the case , work to identify two different medication regimens , so when you develop a tolerance to one in the middle of the school year , you can seamlessly switch to the other . I have found many professionals are sympathetic to students who express interest in higher education and was able to effectively partner with my providers . Identify a routine that contributes to your well-being and stick to it . For example , if you know that an irregular sleep schedule contributes to your anxiety , make your sleep schedule a priority . If you know your depression worsens when you do n't get enough light , and realize you 'll be working in a dark , interior office , ask your provider about light-box options . Consider tracking your schedule ( sleep/waking times , eating times and amounts , etc ) and symptoms on an ongoing basis , or in periods when your symptoms seem to worsen . This can help pinpoint instances where your routine has become disrupted . Operationalize your academic challenges , then identify possible solutions First write down a detailed , specific list of the ways in which you are struggling academically . I posted several follow-up comments to your initial question , because it was n't clear to me how your studies were being impacted by your symptoms . Determine if there are specific activities or tasks that seem to have become harder in recent months . Once you have list of specific examples , it will be easier to identify specific solutions . Some examples include : Problem : Low energy/motivation . Possible Solution : Create a concrete schedule , identifying when you will complete brief , manageable assignments . Unlike a to-do list that is open ended , this involves scheduling writing your methods section for your biology paper at 6pm on Tuesday . Rather than dread completing a task at some point , you 'll know exactly when you need to knock that out . Problem : Poor concentration makes it hard to focus on long assignments . Possible Solution : Break tasks into smaller components ( e.g. , breaking a paper into individual sections ) , and take breaks in between . Remove other distractions ( cell phone , email , TV ) from the area where you are working . If you ca n't resist temptation , go to the library and leave your phone at home . Problem : Poor attention makes it hard to take notes during lecture . Possible Solution : Audio-record lectures so you can listen to them later at your own speed . Join a study group where you can compare your notes and understanding with other students . Problem : Difficulties with memory impact school work . Possible Solution : Identify new ways to study , such as taking more extensive notes , re-writing your notes ( this is more ef
Just talk to your advisor when you feel you need his input . All of the busy people I know ( myself included ) want the people they work with to let them know if things are ahead of schedule . When I supervise a student , someone has to be moving things along . If the student takes responsibility for that , and can be counted on to come to me when he/she needs my input , it 's much less work for me than the students I have to monitor more actively . Having said that , there are several things that can also help : Ask your supervisor to discuss the " big picture " with you . This way you 'll understand what these small tasks are getting at and can make a reasonable guess as to what the next task will be . This will help with your problem and will also help you develop your skills as an independent researcher ( which is what you 're training for , after all ) . Develop your own research interests ( either side projects , or related to the work you 're doing with your advisor ) and work on those when you 're " blocked " waiting for your advisor . This , too , will also help you develop your skills as an independent researcher .
I 'd just pretend that you stumbled across a paper , rather than say you reviewed it on your blog . And you should not make comments about the pre-published version of the paper . This could be embarrassing for the author , and seriously violates the trust embodied in the reviewing process .
For typical journals , you do n't actually have to implement all the reviewer 's suggestions to get the paper published . After all , it 's not like the reviewer necessarily knows better than you do what is going to make your paper publishable . ( If multiple reviewers all make the same suggestion , that 's a different story . ) If you have a good reason not to do something suggested by a reviewer , you can not do it and point out in your response to the editor why you made that decision . The important thing is to make it clear that you did n't simply decide to ignore part of the reviewer 's report . If you 're going to avoid implementing any of their recommendations , you do need to justify it . It then falls to the editor to decide whether the paper is still publishable without that particular suggestion being implemented . I 'd add that saying that an addition to the paper would be too large and would justify an entire followup study on its own is a valid response . Even a reasonably common one , I would think . Reviewers have n't done the research themselves ; they do n't know how much work an extension would take , and if you say it would be too involved , there 's a pretty good chance the editor believes that you know better than the reviewer on that point .
It looks totally normal to hand in the letter from the main supervisor instead of the co-supervisor . If you need a second letter , ask someone from another project . I would not advise to hand in two letters from the same project anyway , it looks as if you have nothing else to offer .
I will talk about publishing as an undergraduate in a general sense . This may change depending on your field of study , where and how the work is published ( journal , conference , workshop , etc ) and what your level of contribution to the end product will be . Let 's start with the easy question . " Is this good for my career ? " I do n't know of many fields where having published work , perhaps especially as an undergraduate , is a detriment . As an undergraduate with two publications as first name ( in my field the student/person who contributed the most / drove the ground level work is first name , the professor is last name and the names in the middle can range from " was vital to the success of the paper " to " they pushed a button a couple of times " ) and several acknowledgements having those papers gave me a definite leg up against my peers when it came time to search for jobs . Having publications under your name can be invaluable if you choose to apply to grad school but companies are often very interested to see what high-level , field-acknowledged work you have completed . It definitely makes you stand out in a crowd . It may seem like nothing but puppies and rainbows but there 's a darker side as well . Academic publishing is a lot of work . Depending on your level of contribution this can mean weeks of brutal work rerunning experiments , tweaking inputs/outputs , editing and documenting . Most of the people I know , their first paper was a brutal experience because Academic writing is unlike any other writing you have done and there can be a steep learning curve in both the technique and the tools . So , unless you have a burning desire for a publication for publication 's sake , the deciding factors for you should be : What is my expected contribution ? How and where will I be credited ? What are my obligations if the publication is accepted ? Let 's break these down . What is my expected contribution ? In my field a couple of professors coming up to you after the fact and saying " We are looking to get this published " is a bit weird . I 'm assuming that these professors were in some way involved in the work as mentors or that this an extension of their work . It is unlikely that this work is fit to be published in its current state . That 's not meant as a slam towards your work , rather it 's a response to the specifics of publication . Academic publication is often fairly stringent in style and method . It is likely that parts of your work will need to be tweaked or polished for publication ( this really depends on your field to be honest ) and , in some cases , completely redone . It is very important for you to demand , in a nice way of course , a roadmap for what needs to be done to get this work published and what you will be expected to do . At that time you should also try to find out how much of the final publication will be your work vs work from others/the group at large . If you have graduated and are starting a new job or heading off to grad school you may have other demands on your time . Writing an academic publication , especially your first academic publication , can be a serious time sink . This will play into the next part ... How and where will I be credited ? Is your work going to be placed , whole cloth , into a template and submitted ? Then you should expect to be first author ( or your field 's equivalent ) and be given an appropriately large share of the credit . Is your work going to be used as a subsubsection , comprising all of 2 lines in the final publication ? Then the credit to you should be , appropriately , smaller . But that 's simplifying things a bit - author order and credit/acknowledgements should be explicitly discussed early in the process . Get it out on the table and nail it down because differences in expectations can definitely damage professional relationships which , to be honest , is probably the most valuable thing you will get out of this . Things like original contribution level , publication writing/editing contribution level , and time/effort commitment to the project should be taken into consideration . Additionally consider your future plans - are you planning on publishing again ? Are you looking at going to grad school ? Depending on the answers to these questions you may find that the most valuable things you get out of publishing are the experience of publishing and the strong network connections you forge with your coauthors . What are my obligations if the publication is accepted ? This is the final piece of the puzzle . If your publication is a conference or workshop piece then someone will have to present at the conference/workshop . It should , ideally , be one of the primary contributors . If that person is you , will you be able to attend ? Who will pay for travel and fees ? Even beyond traveling for conferences/workshops - Who will pay for submission fees ? Recently one of my papers was 3 pages over the limit ( the conference accepted longer papers at a fee for each additional page up to 5 additional pages ) . This cos
Actually , I kind of disagree with <URL> ... I do n't think you should put negative statements about yourself in your cover letter . While they do not want to only here how awesome you would be , they do want to hear how , and why , you would be totally awesome working for/with them . You can look up some tips and guidelines about writing a cover letter <URL> . I also think that any half-page story has no place in your cover letter . It should be fairly short , clear and memorable/striking . I was suggested , two pages maximum . One page is better . But , if it was an important experience for you as a potential researcher , there 's definitely place for it in your cover letter , just not directly . What you should include , however , is : what helped you get back your motivation ( you can say that e.g. a project made you " rediscover your love of science " without explicitly saying that you lost it for a while ) how your approach to research has changed in a positive manner ( e.g. working on the team project made me realize how important and helpful peer input , informal discussions and exchanging ideas was for my productivity ) how your vision of science/yourself changed after that ( e.g. working with Professor X. what made me secure in my opinion that I want a career as a researcher ) basically , any positive result of your experience is worth mentioning , but I would rather mention just what triggered the positive change of attitude instead of motivation-less period before
I ca n't think of how an excellent letter of recommendation from a professor in an unrelated field of study could hurt you . Perhaps if it was the only ( excellent ) letter of recommendation , maybe then . But you mentioned you have an excellent letter from your employer and can ( I assume ) get at least one more good letter from someone else , so I think you are in a good position . You are right , his letter of recommendation would not be about your technical skills related to EE , but it would mention your characteristics , work ethics , teamwork ability in a very good light . Research writing course is also not that far away from EE . It shows you are more diverse than the stereotypical programmer or engineer . You worked with this specific professor for 2 semesters , he could give you an outstanding letter of recommendation . I think his letter will give you more than any single average/solid letter from other professors .
I do n't think it is relevant to your applications . It was a short period , and many students take advantage of the summer break for such things as travel , time with family , gainful employment , volunteer activities . It would be different if you had had a break from your studies of a year or more . Best of luck to your family .
Do n't worry about it too much , just say thank you . In person or over email are both fine : getting a good recommendation letter is a big deal for you , but writing recommendation letters for good students is a part of normal routine for a professor .
Yes , it is perfectly appropriate to refer to students in a class you are TAing as " my students . " You are teaching them ; hence , they are your students . It does n't really matter whether or not you are the primary instructor .
I spoke recently with someone who is building such a website/community , and I doubt they will mind me giving a brief overview of how they intend it to work . Basically there are 2 issues that are difficult to overcome - assuming all the technological issues are minor : Skepticism Slander Skepticism in the sense of ' Oh , I see this PI has a bad review from 2001 , but who 's to say that will happen to me . Maybe this one student is an odd-ball ' . It also has parallels with the <URL> problem . And we see this a lot on academia.stackexchange too . We only ever hear 1 side of the story , and that story is rarely impartial . You know , occasionally people like to rant . People often omit the times they made mistakes . It 's human nature . And so any website of this nature has to somehow overcome this issue of he-said-she-said , and theres simply no technological device we can implement to get around this . Particularly if you allow anonymous submissions . The second , slander , is what I believe most people in the pubpeer.com debate are worried about . A deliberate attempt to hurt someone 's reputation under the flag of mob-justice . Nitpicking and emotive words , but no real substance , etc. . I actually only found out about pubpeer a week or so ago when a colleague at a party showed it to me , and I was shocked to see people I respect being picked apart on there for silly little things . Still , those anonymous criticisms do have some validity , and the concept of post-publication peer review is something I deeply agree with . I think only time will tell what impact sites like pubpeer will have on science . For a PI-review site , it could have disastrous consequences . Potentially legal consequences . The website/community I referred to up top seemed to have spent a considerable amount of time fleshing out all the technological methods that could help here , and in the end i 'm told they settled on the fairly low-tech idea for Skype-based interviews , potentially on a weekly release schedule . The idea is to mainly cater for people who hate their PhD and feel relief knowing they 're not the only ones going through hell . So these Skype interviews generally are with post-docs or no-docs who had a bad experience , and they talk about what the end result was , what they 'd do differently , if they still feel they were treated unfairly many years down the line ( I watched 3 interviews and they were all totally different , so i 'm finding it difficult to generalise here ) . But the big issue for the team putting all this together is finding PhD/post-docs/no-docs who are OK with talking about their experiences . They offered to interview me but I turned them down because , frankly , i 'm not that brave . They offered to pixilate my face , but even so ... as disappointed as I am with my treatment during my PhD , there 's no one specific person that really let me down . It was a system of failures , I think , and one that is unlikely to happen again . So that particular PI-review project would n't really help me or people like me .
Yes . Talk to your advisor . It is really important you learn to , in a good way , think of yourself . Right now , the undergraduates are happy ( they get help ) but your work is suffering . I can imagine that helping undergraduates is part of your job description , but not to the point you can not work anymore yourself . You need to sit down with your professor and your supervisor and discuss that your undergraduate workload is too much . Best is to have a proposal ready yourself , e.g. that you want to spend a day a week helping undergraduates and that that is the limit . Once you get both your professor and your supervisor to agree , no undergraduate can manipulate you into helping him/her . In addition , everyone is clear on their expectations , this is the professional way of dealing with this in my opinion . If you do not set boundaries , you will be the only one suffering . The professor and supervisor will feel somewhat bad , but the undergraduates will find a new person to stalk , while you are left without a PhD .
Write your affiliation similar to how you 'll do it with a university . First Last [ Designation , ] Dept. , Institution If your hospital does not split members into departments , then Dept. part can be omitted . Examples : Aaron Stone Neurosurgeon , XYZ Clinic Cathy Miller Researcher , Cancer Research Lab , BCD Hospital Greg Thompson Cryogenics , GHI Health Institute Note that it is not always necessary to include your designation ( job description ) , unless the publisher asks for it .
Supplementing the answer from abatkai : The rules likely vary by field also . In chemistry , converting previously published papers into a <URL> is generally accepted and commonplace . My thesis contained a chapter that was prefaced " Portions of this chapter were previously published as ( citation ) , and have been reproduced with permission . Copyright is held by ( publisher of the journal ) . " This was followed by further copyright information and the statement required by the publisher . My institution also required that I submit paperwork in support of my use of published and copyrighted material . In addition to consulting your adviser and your institution , you should consult the journals in which you publish . Many have policies in place for this . For example , from the American Chemical Society 's <URL> : The current ACS Journal Publishing Agreement covers several permitted uses by authors ... Permitted uses of all versions include : Use in theses and collections of your own work
According to the <URL> at the Colorado School of Mines , which also requires international students to enroll in the school insurance plan , it is legal . The legal rationale they offer is : It 's not considered discrimination to have different policies for U.S. citizen vs. international students , so long as the requirements are the same for all international students regardless of country of origin : " The University may impose such a requirement on all students who are not United States citizens . Such a requirement is not regarded as discrimination on the basis of national origin by the courts . See Espinoza vs. Farah , 6 FEP 931 ( November 19 , 1973 ) . This is true so long as no distinction is made between citizens of different foreign countries " ( Joseph Goldhammer , Resident Legal Counsel , Office of the Attorney General , Dept. of Law , State of Colorado , regarding Foreign Student Health Insurance ) . Federal immigration law itself imposes certain health insurance or other requirements on foreign students : Most students come to U.S. institutions under an " F " visa . Federal immigration law requires that this subclass of non-immigrants provide proof of their financial ability to support themselves and the cost of their education . These requirements have not been found to violate the equal protection amendment to the constitution . ( Anwo vs. Immigration and Naturalization Service. , 607 F. 2d 435 D.C. Cir 1979 ) . Colorado School of Mines considers medical insurance an integral part of the students ability to support themselves . Federal immigration law also requires that exchange visitors and their accompanying spouse/dependent ( s ) coming to the United States on a " J " visa carry medical insurance . ( 22 CFR 515.14 ) ( Note that J-1 visa holders are required to have health insurance meeting certain minimum requirements , not just any health insurance . ) Courts have recognized that specifically mandating health insurance for foreign students is not discriminatory : Equal Protection Analysis/14th Amendment to the Constitution : The U.S. constitution requires that " no state shall ... deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law . " Is requiring health insurance of international students discriminatory ? Does it violate those students ' constitutional equal protection rights ? Case law differentiates the legal rights of U.S. citizens and permanent residents from the legal rights of non-immigrant aliens , those persons who are in the United States for a short period of time and for a particular purpose . Courts have recognized that requiring health insurance protects the students ' ability to exist in the community , realizing the high costs of health care in this country ( Ahmed v. University of Toledo , 822 F. 2d 26 6th Cir . 1987 ) . Further , courts have acknowledged that requiring health insurance is consistent with , and supports the purposes of , federal immigration law . " International students do not have a constitutional right to attend American universities without complying with the institutions ' reasonable regulations . " ( Plyler v. Doe , 457 U.S. 202 , 1982 ) .
The secret to getting a good letter from someone is making sure they 're going to write you a good letter before you have them write one . You should never need to look at a letter someone wrote for you , as you should basically know what they 're going to write without ever having looked at it . In most cases , if someone does n't feel comfortable writing a 100 % positive letter about you , they 'll let you know when you ask them and recommend you get someone else to write the letter . With that in mind , it is definitely better to forgo this choice , for the reason you suggested ... people will likely feel more comfortable to write freely and honestly when they know you wo n't read it . Regarding the procedure , I 'm not familiar with the mandate , but if it is a US mandate , then they 'll probably show it to you after a lot of waiting . It is definitely uncommon for someone to ask to see a letter written about them , and it likely would be looked down upon .
end question
start question
Who applies academic CS research in the industry and how ?
I think it depends in large part on what the research is . Some fields lend themselves more readily to real-life application , while others like , say , theoretical physics , are a long way from being used by industry . It also depends on the researcher . I am a firm believer in the " <URL> " principle ( disclosure : the man who wrote that is my advisor ) . The premise of the Last Research Mile is that a big part of doing research is taking it all the way through to implementation . Doing the early research provides a good start , but lots of important lessons , including research lessons , are learned as the idea is carried through to execution . I 'm studying in an Information Systems program , and so my research is in business , computers , and people . While it would be easy to do the basic research and move on to another topic , I think it is important to continue to push and test the idea even in its implementation phases . As a result of following the Last Research Mile principle , my advisor has created at least one company that sells the product of decades of his research . Many lessons were learned , and many publications resulted because of those lessons throughout the whole process .
If the student wishes to be self-sufficient in PhD research , then she/he ought to express that the student is competent to do so . There are supervisors who tend to give sufficient freedom for the student to do their research in their own accord . There are some others who feel much more procedural in their approach to build and shape their scholars to their view . Both are actually fine as long as they confirm to the type of their respective students . There are some who require more attention that others , and some others less so . If the student feels that she/he does not require to be spoon fed , then it would be up to the student to show that she/he is capable of producing valuable result by him/herself . The student ought to exhibit active involvement in the research and request for suggestions to the advisor . Here are a few examples . There is this new problem I 've just came across while doing this work . It 's about ... May I look further into this ? or There is an idea I would like to discuss regarding ... Shall I try this one out ? The point is to show how eager you are to be able to do research with lesser support . Of course this might not work all the time ( depending on your advisor ) . This would , however , show how capable you are and is certainly worth a try .
Weight in academia is carried mostly by peer-reviewed research publications , published in academically reputable venues such as research journals , conferences , books with reputable publishers , reputable preprint servers , ... If you get these publications from industry research , you get academic weight . A famous example for prominent research in electrical engineering done in industry are the <URL> . Codes and operational manuals are not academic publications , and typically carry little weight . In order to get that , you have to publish academic papers about the codes and manuals , or publish papers about research results obtained with them .
A number of UK universities have their policies on the appointment of Honorary positions on their websites . It appears from a number of them that the appointments are usually made upon the request from for example , the head of a school , within the institution . It appears ( from the University of St Andrews ) that appointments are made when it is deemed to be beneficial to both parties . An Honorary appointment is an arrangement which allows distinguished individuals from other institutions and organisations to collaborate with academic staff at the University of St Andrews and have access to certain University facilities to further their own research , cooperate on joint research or contribute to the teaching of the University . It recognises an ongoing association with the University . In all of the policies it appears that the Head of School makes that application and it is the HR department that makes the final decision on the granting of the Honorary position . I relation to gaining a Honorary position , I would think that if you are well known in your field of research there is a better chance of gaining one . Here is a list of links to policies for the following universities . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> In Ireland ( my home country ) I believe they are occasionally awarded . Trinity College Dublin have Honorary positions in their <URL>
No , workshops are generally ( at least in my area of CS ) of much lower value than full conference proceedings . ( Especially when held before a more major conference . ) Even though workshop proceedings are published , they are not always considered archival , and usually are stepping stones to full publications later on . A workshop is a good place to get feedback on ideas that can then be upgraded to a " full " publication in the future . But , I 'd strongly advise you to attend the workshop in order to meet and interact with people in the area ! You can get great feedback for taking a weak conference submission and making it a strong accept .
I 'd bet it 's probably fine , but there 's no way to get a definitive answer without asking the copyright holder ( this is one of the weaknesses with the noncommercial Creative Commons licenses ) . The Creative Commons definition of commercial use is use that is <URL> . Most teaching and conference talks seem pretty clearly noncommercial to me by this standard . But what if someone argues that you 're only doing that teaching to earn money ? Does the mere fact that you are using this material to help you do your paid job transform it into commercial use , or can you argue that in fact your use was not motivated primarily by earning money ? What if you 're getting paid an honorarium to give a talk - does that make it even more of a commercial activity ? You could end up in all sorts of debates about what the " primary intentions " are , with many borderline cases , and there 's no objective way to resolve the disagreement . The Creative Commons organization does not attempt to settle these issues , but does note that <URL> . There seems to be no official guidance as to what this is intended to cover . Maybe it is limited to cases such as selling teaching materials , or maybe it is much broader . In practice , I imagine most people using a noncommercial license would not object to these uses . There is a <URL> of what users have in mind when choosing such a license , which does n't directly address your issues but may shed light on them . However , it 's worth noting that people have in fact had nontrivial disputes over what constitutes noncommercial use , with at least one <URL> that disagrees with what I would have predicted . I ca n't really imagine anyone would sue you over ordinary teaching or conference talks . The worst plausible scenario is probably offending the copyright holder ( and being asked to remove the image ) , not getting sued . That could be a risk worth taking if you believe that these uses should be considered noncommercial . Of course I 'm not a lawyer or an expert in Creative Commons licenses , and I do n't know the real risks , so you should take this whole answer with a grain of salt .
There is probably not a single truth here but I would make the following statements : Having a good publication record is the basis for basically everything in academia . The question is then what is good ? As a fresh PhD student citations will be near zero ( I am guessing in most fields ) . Having publications in citation index listed journals is therefore a definite plus . Having several as first author is a must ( see <URL> for a discussion ) I would also argue that having papers not part of the PhD ( even if not first authored author ) is a plus since it indicates activity . As a new post-graduate you need to improve the publication record as best you can . You need to show that you do your own new work but also be part of collaborations in some mix . Building a publication record takes time and will partly be up to your own efforts and in some way also by chance ( you never know what opportunities lie ahead ) . To get employed , you can basically only compete with a good publication list . Everyone knows this takes time and I am guessing all fields have their own " standards " as to what is a reasonable publication rate . In my field where papers are based on field investigations , 2-4 papers per year is considered acceptable , the longer-term average should be towards 3-5 . The rate is thus an aspect that should not be over-looked . Typically you will have a dip post-PhD because it takes time to build or get into a new environment and to start writing new papers . Having something on the back burner for that period may thus be useful to bridge the gap . As a final note , the citations will be more and more important after a few years . In my field it usually takes a few years to start getting citations because the results will inspire someone to apply for money , go into the field for new investigations , and then write papers . In a lab or theoretical environment such response times may be lower so check with seniors in your field what applies . A good question to ask is perhaps if there are ways to promote ones work to increase citation records , I do not have the answer to that question . Bottom line : publish in as good journals as possible . Good quality counts but a reasonable publication rate is also necessary . Citations will come with time .
Should I have a conversation with him about his working hours ? Yes ! He gets paid to do a job . He does n't do the job . You need to talk to him , even though it 's an uncomfortable situation . Also , you say in a comment : Because the general culture in academia tends to be more like , " Work as many or as few hours as you want as long as you get your work done . " This is true , but you say that he does not get his job done . Frankly , if he only works like 25 hours , even if he would be supremely productive I would still talk to him about his work ethics if he puts in so much less hours than his peers ... and if he is not it 's all the more reason to make sure that he at least tries as hard as the others . If you do n't , the problem is going to be that sooner rather than later many of the 45-hours students are going to wonder why the heck they are actually not enjoying the summer . I have seen in my current group that various bad habits have a tendency to spread like wildfire if the students have the impression that not doing your job is n't in any way frowned upon anyway . If so , how to do it without sounding like a jerk ? In private , without getting emotional or accusatory . Tell him that you have the impression that he works considerably below the amount that was agreed upon , and that you have to ask him to change this . Tell him that you have the impression that his project is not progressing fast enough , and what will happen if he ca n't get it done in time ( you have some course of action in this case , right ? ) . Be prepared that he may counter with some sort of attack against you . For instance , this is a classic in such situations : " Well , since you never have time for me , I do n't know what to do half of the time anyway - so rather than just sit around I leave " . Make sure that you have a good answer in this case .
You do n't need to include any of the proposed titles in your presentation . They all come across as stilted and affected , and are entirely unnecessary . Instead , if this is a public presentation , treat it as you would any other such presentation : indicate the title of your talk as you normally would have it , and so on . If this is the " private " presentation to the faculty , then you should give it a title representing your current and future research interests . You do n't need to say " what " the presentation is for -- again , the location of the talk should be sufficient .
That is a rather confusing request , actually . However , what I think the job offer is looking for in a " statement of interests " is a description of the research areas you are interested in , while the " statement of research " would be a listing of projects you 'd plan to start if you were hired . However , in many job postings , those two items would potentially be conflated into a single statement . So I 'd recommend that you contact the department . I 'd recommend doing this by phone , if possible -- that way , you do n't have to give as much identifying information .
Any skeleton/guideline to follow ? Actually the links you provided are excellent and give a good basis to start with . There 's not much to add to it . Reporting styles of results sometimes differ from field to field so I think it 's best to examine the style used by some of the papers that you cite that are similar to yours . How do you make the difference between interpreting and reporting ? This is usually the hardest part . A good way to start is to simple make a bullet point list of observations only . For example : This is a green apple . Each apple weighs 50 g. Each box of apples weighs 2 kg . There are 20 boxes . This is going to be a boring , unexciting list . But this is exactly how it is supposed to be . Once you got the list , you can create a nice paragraph from it . Notice how tempting it is to just make the short calculation noting how many apples there are , but no ! This is an interpretation and not merely an observation . There are , however , some " obvious " one-word interpretation that sometimes can go to the results section . For example , you may point out that the apple is a Granny Smith cultivar . Or you may note that a 2 kg box is a standard size box . These immediate interpretations should be obvious to the reader , so he will not have to ask " why " when reading . The reason for putting these in the " Results " section instead of the " Discussion " section is that they may distract from the main point you are trying to convey in the full interpretation of the data .
I address all cover letters , letters of rec , etc. " Dear Committee Members : " Do n't waste your time addressing it to an individual . The only thing you can achieve by doing that is embarrassing yourself and giving the search committee the chance to have a good laugh at your expense . If you do it correctly , it does n't actually achieve anything ; why give yourself one more thing to stress about ?
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all have thriving basic research labs that regularly hire PhDs in theoretical computer science , and whose members regularly publish in theoretical computer science conferences and journals . Yes , research at those labs is colored by the needs of their parent companies , but not as much as you might think . All four companies ( and several others ) have thriving internship programs . As with any other research job , your best bet in finding opportunities is to talk personally with people at the labs . Go to FOCS/STOC/SODA , sit at the same lunch table as David Johnson or Muthu or Ken Clarkson or Yuval Peres , and just talk to them . ( It obviously helps if you have some research results that they care about . ) Ask your advisor to introduce you if you do n't feel comfortable just introducing yourself . ( I 'm about to get some angry emails from David , Muthu , Ken , and Yuval , are n't I ? )
First of all , good for you in getting the internship . Now that you 're there , some suggestions for what to do , broadly and specifically : Meet people with similar backgrounds to yourself . Find out what they do , what skills they value , what skills they wish they had . If you 're in a large company , talk to people in other parts of the business , see what they do . You may find positions in other parts of the company that interest you that you were n't even aware of . If you 're in a large company , talk to managers , see what they desire in people like you . They 'll already be slightly impressed that you thought to talk to them . Learn what they do , what skills they like . It can help you guide your career later on . Learn new skills &amp; hone old ones . This is a good time to see which of your skills are marketable and which are n't . Get really good at the marketable ones . Use the opportunity to reach out to people in similar positions at different companies and see what they 're doing . If you do n't know people at other companies , ask around ; your new coworkers should have friends they can put you in phone/email contact with , and you can take it from there . Above all , try to do a really good job . Internships can often lead to full-time employment , so you want to impress .
I am sure this varies but is most likely one of the following ( in some kind of falling order ) : you are a well-known and respected researcher/educator in the field you have recently written material that are key to the book ( perhaps referenced in it ) you are known not to know the word " No " ( makes the editors work easier ) you are friends with the editor ( makes his/her life easy ) I doubt many editors will necessarily take you up on an offer ( depending which category you may fall into ) but I am sure some might be fine with it . It never hurts to contact an editor and express interest . You should then provide a background for why you should be considered for such a task .
I think it depends in large part on what the research is . Some fields lend themselves more readily to real-life application , while others like , say , theoretical physics , are a long way from being used by industry . It also depends on the researcher . I am a firm believer in the " <URL> " principle ( disclosure : the man who wrote that is my advisor ) . The premise of the Last Research Mile is that a big part of doing research is taking it all the way through to implementation . Doing the early research provides a good start , but lots of important lessons , including research lessons , are learned as the idea is carried through to execution . I 'm studying in an Information Systems program , and so my research is in business , computers , and people . While it would be easy to do the basic research and move on to another topic , I think it is important to continue to push and test the idea even in its implementation phases . As a result of following the Last Research Mile principle , my advisor has created at least one company that sells the product of decades of his research . Many lessons were learned , and many publications resulted because of those lessons throughout the whole process .
In the US , you generally address colleagues of a similar status by their first names -- so your fellow faculty members would definitely be addressed informally . This would of course extend to collaborators and acquaintances in other departments . I think the only exception to this would be in the case of formal communications -- an official memorandum or letter from a faculty member to someone in the university administration , for instance . But otherwise , in any oral or informal written correspondence , I 'd stick to first names . ( In other countries , follow the appropriate local traditions , as they may be very different from US standards . )
High-tech engineering companies , for one . A friend of mine works at a small system-on-a-chip designer company , and they supply highly specialized chip designs to other businesses which utilize embedded systems -- think leading automotive , aerospace , consumer electronics OEMs . The company is small and every engineering employee has at least a MSc , most of them have PhDs or higher ( that would be associate professors and professors ) . Another example is automotive R&amp;D -- mechanical engineering . Companies are financing new development of new methodologies in product development -- particularly structural optimization , design automation , manufacturing process simulations . Virtual prototyping is the name of the game for top manufacturers currently , and the demand for highly-skilled experts is great , even in these uncertain economic times . In the country where I study , PhD projects are financed jointly by interested private companies as well as research organizations , and the companies have a vested interest to receive not only the direct results from the research , but also trained individuals that can integrate the research outcomes into their product development or manufacturing process . Obviously YMMV by country and research field . PhDs in in mostly theoretical projects might have harder time finding a good position after graduating , while hands-on graduates whose projects were conducted in collaboration with industrial partners are much more likely to secure a senior technical position even before their dissertation .
Is there any similar service for Europe ? Unfortunately the answer to this question is no . The closest equivalent , at least in the German-speaking area , is <URL> . I am not aware of a similarly complete portal for the rest of Europe . Additionally , the most complete list for the German-speaking area is definitely the newsletter sent out monthly by the <URL> ( essentially the union of German university teachers ) . This list has rather official character and is pretty much complete for the area . However , you need to be a member to receive this newsletter , and one can only become a member by having been employed in an academic post at a German university . ( or you know a member and ask him to forward you the newsletter each month )
Typically , academic papers have traditionally provided the lists of works referenced , rather than bibliographies . Primarily , this is a matter of space , as well as recognizing work that has actually been used . Otherwise , it 's too easy to include a bunch of random entries that have nothing to do with the paper in question . ( It 's still possible to do so in a works cited list , but you at least have to make the effort to work it into the paper somehow . ) In general , you should only include both lists if the journal in question allows such behavior . If you are publishing the paper in a venue that does not have such requirements , then you are of course free to include both lists if you choose . ( Although I would not repeat the references list in the bibliography list , again to save space . )
end question
start question
Is an Executive Doctorate different from a typical PhD with respect to the level of assistance that is permitted on the dissertation ?
Based on <URL> , I would guess the answer is : officially , no . It seems quite unlikely to me that there is some other standard of intellectual honesty specifically set up for " Executive Doctoral " student , since it is such a new category . It certainly sounds to me like this person is asking you do an inappropriate amount of work toward their doctorate ; doctoral students are n't expected to be completely isolated ( much of my thesis was based on joint work ) , but asking you to rewrite seems like crossing a line . It 's up to you to decide what you want to do , and whether you feel comfortable with the work . You could always contact the person 's advisor , but you should be prepared for that to burn your bridge with this person .
There are two separate issues here : omitting the proof , and calling it an exercise . It is relatively common to omit some proofs in research papers . In particular , proofs that are long but routine , or that re-use the same method as other proofs in the paper , are often abbreviated or removed . It depends on the intended audience for the paper , to some extent . You will get a sense of this by reading more research papers . But caution is needed : one of the first places to look for errors in a paper is in results where the proof was omitted ! The question whether to call something in your paper an " exercise " is more difficult . I would n't be surprised if some people do it -- but some people do n't write very well . The audience for a paper includes your peers , and you are not really in a position to assign them homework . There are other ways to indicate that a proof is easy besides calling it an exercise : " the following theorem follows directly from definitions " , " the proof of the following theorem is routine " , " the proof of the following theorem is similar to the proof of Theorem 1.3 " , etc. . Giving a small hint of how to prove the result can make the paper stronger , and it helps any readers who are not experts in the area .
You seem ( at least in your question ) to have skipped over a middle option : as a PHD student in computer science at an American university , it is likely that with no additional paperwork you can enroll in graduate courses in the statistics department . ( As with all things academic , it would be good to run this past your supervisor , but as long as you can explain ( i ) why you think it will be useful to you and ( ii ) why it will not significantly impede the progress on whatever else you are supposed to be doing , s/he ought to be supportive of it . If the statistics coursework is directly relevant to your thesis research , s/he ought to be enthusiastic , even . ) You can then take exactly the courses to develop the knowledge and skills you need . I do n't know your situation , but it seems very unlikely that what you want to learn will coincide precisely with the set of requirements for a master 's degree in statistics . And in terms of your credentials : unless you are looking for a post-PhD position specifically in statistics , given that you already have one master 's degree and are going for a PhD , I do n't see a second master 's degree in statistics as having much value to you . ( Even then , unless your career goal is to be some kind of adjunct lecturer in a statistics department , a second master 's degree is not guaranteed to be directly helpful : if you have specific career goals then you should ask around as to what credentials best help you achieve these goals . ) As to the value of the coursework itself versus the time for your CS research : Suresh 's comment is the best answer that I can think of to that . You 're right ; there are pros and cons to be weighed against each other . We ca n't do that for you nearly as well as you can do it for yourself . Your supervisor is the natural person to go to for some additional insight , but in my opinion the final decision is really yours .
Is it normal to submit an abstract to a conference when the research is NOT completed ? Sure . There are plenty of fields where the purpose of a conference is to discuss research that is " still cooking . " In fact , many journal publications can be viewed as interim reports on larger research programs that are still in progress . You might use this opportunity to set a goal for ( roughly ) the piece of your thesis you want to have done by the date of the conference . It 's ok if that piece is relatively small , and nobody at the conference will hold you strictly to what you say in the abstract . In fact , some people submit abstracts on one thing and then talk about something entirely different ... I wo n't advocate that behavior as an intentional strategy , but I will say that many people ( myself included ) prefer a great talk to exacting consistency with the abstract .
Honestly , my expectations for undergraduate theses are very limited . Any well-written discussion that demonstrates significant understanding of the research area is probably satisfactory . A doctoral dissertation is supposed to demonstrate significant research skill and the ability to perform cutting-edge research . A master 's thesis is supposed to demonstrate the ability to perform some useful research in the subject area . An undergraduate thesis is supposed to demonstrate that a student knows something worth knowing about a topic , and original results are not generally a requirement . In a way , it is good that you are unhappy with your undergraduate honors thesis . That demonstrates that you know what you have actually accomplished and also clearly understand the weaknesses of your work . It may be unfortunate that you have not had enough time to complete all the work you would have liked to complete , but if you continue along an academic career path , you will get ample opportunities to pursue more complete research projects . ( As a personal note , I should add that as I am writing this comment , I really ought to be providing comments on the thesis draft that I received the other day from my own honors college student . This is a really good student , and he has already appeared as an author on a paper in a top journal , based on his work over the past year . On the other hand , his written thesis is lacking in both contextualization and descriptive detail . To bring his work up to the level where I would like it to be would be a significant undertaking , and it is probably not going to get to that level in the limited time we have . To some extent , that leaves me disappointed , but I do not want to lose track of the fact that this is a really first-rate student , and what he has produced -- imperfect as it is -- is quite remarkable for an twenty-one-year-old undergraduate . )
I strongly dispute your assertion that knowledge of the more general subject is not needed for the more specific subjects . To use your own example , general biology will include general cell anatomy and metabolism and probably some basics of evolution . More specialized courses like anatomy and endocrinology will make no sense without these basics . Even when a direct subject material connection is not obvious , in a well-designed set of courses there is often an important dependence in skills . For example , in the mathematics classes that I took , there was not much direct connection in material between Analysis and some the higher-level subjects like Abstract Algebra and Topology that had it as a required prerequisite . However , Analysis was the subject where students were expected to learn how to properly approach and formulate mathematical proofs , and the higher-level subjects assumed these skills . Likewise , many engineering departments have a required " general engineering " subject for freshmen , which drums in the general philosophy of engineering through hands-on applications in various areas : even if an electrical engineer never uses a machine-shop again , the " engineering way of thinking " that they have learned will be critical to their success later on . Returning , then , to your basic question : there 's an awful lot of knowledge in the world , and much of it simply is very specialized . General classes give the foundation required by many different specialized subjects , and so a well-designed curriculum tends to naturally form a " tree " structure that starts general and becomes more specialized as one progresses deeper into a subject .
I think the best option is to set up your personal page and have your file hosted there . It is better to have your own independent site ( independent from your university ) in case you are to move to another university ( post-doc , faculty position , etc ) and can not host your file there anymore . Once you have the dissertation hosted somewhere , you can share it through social media sites like Facebook and LinkedIn . If that is not a possibility for you , another option would be to share it online in an open access database like Figshare ( <URL> ) . Note that you should double check guidelines from your university to ensure it is okay , and consider if you plan to publish your dissertation in a journal in the future ( some journals do not like it if the pre-prints are available elsewhere publicly ) . Here is an online post about why one decides to have dissertations hosted there . <URL>
Some universities have rules about what kind of student may be a TA . Assuming no such rules exist , the TA should be qualified to fill that role , whatever that means for a given course . That is , the TA should have both the domain knowledge and pedagogical ability that the job requires . It does n't matter what level of education the TA is at . In my own department it is quite common for TAs to be " peers " of the students in the class ( B.S. students hired to TA the B.S. level courses , M.S. students and PhD students hired to TA graduate courses including both M.S. and PhD students . )
Based on <URL> , I would guess the answer is : officially , no . It seems quite unlikely to me that there is some other standard of intellectual honesty specifically set up for " Executive Doctoral " student , since it is such a new category . It certainly sounds to me like this person is asking you do an inappropriate amount of work toward their doctorate ; doctoral students are n't expected to be completely isolated ( much of my thesis was based on joint work ) , but asking you to rewrite seems like crossing a line . It 's up to you to decide what you want to do , and whether you feel comfortable with the work . You could always contact the person 's advisor , but you should be prepared for that to burn your bridge with this person .
I have been in the regrettable position where I have had to cancel courses right up to the point where they are about to start . Such decisions were based on whether the course stood to cover direct costs ( tutor fees , out of pocket expenses , accommodation costs , consumables etc. ) rather than on their contribution to the overall budget ( which is out the window anyway ) . In these cases , we would endeavor to ensure that the tutor , and in some instances the students , know of the risk of cancellation due to low recruitment and the deadline by which a decision would be made . What puzzles me with your situation is that the course has already begun , therefore : Costs have already been incurred ( in your time ) Certain costs will already have been committed to ( room bookings , catering etc. ) Students will have paid fees ( or have had their fees paid for them in whatever form ) If the course would be cancelled , fees would be refunded or lost ( government funders in the UK only give university 's the student loan cash once a student has progressed through certain stages of their course , for example ) and committed expenses would still need to be paid , at least in part . So by cancelling it part way through they are likely to be left with a bigger deficit now than they would if they let it run its course , to illustrate : Let it run it 's course : income - expenditure = deficit1 Cancel it now : income - expenditure - refunds = deficit2 deficit2 > deficit1 And this is not to mention the reputational risk in cancelling a course with students already on it . To answer your question , " What should I do ? " I 'd find out exactly why the course is for the chop midway through ( there might be a very good reason why ! ) and then argue : that its financially more sensible to run with it at a loss rather than loose income to refunds ( assuming this is true ) ; that the risk to department/institution reputation is real ( again , assuming that it is ) for the ethics of disrupting students ' learning partway through and potentially putting them behind in their educational pursuits by another academic year ( this one is the key message ! ) ; for the academic/strategic value in running the course ( is it an investment , does it make the college look good etc. ) ; to outline strategies for improving recruitment network ( collaboration with other programmes , better marketing , tweak the content ) , and if you deem it appropriate , to outline your personal inconvenience as a result of the cancellation ( I 'd imagine they want to keep good staff - as you hinted that you are - happy ) . Voices from students , and their representatives , might be persuasive here as well . Another reason I would be reluctant to cancel a course midway through is that the tutor would be under contract - so I 'd still have to pay them . So , take a look at your contract and see what happens in the event of cancellation partway through .
Cumulative dissertation is probably a literal translation of the German Kumulative Dissertation , which denotes a <URL> , i.e. , a thesis which typically consists of some peer-reviewed publications , an introduction , and a conclusion . The alternative to this is a monograph thesis , which is written separately as a coherent monolithic work and whose individual chapters are not intended for being read on their own . The requirements on such a cumulative dissertation differ between universities and even faculties , so you have to look into their rules for those .
I do n't think there is a single answer here . Some schools start their interview process in late fall , and other schools do n't even conduct preliminary interviews until the end of February . In addition , there 's always the possibility that nobody accepts their initial offers , in which case they may want to start a new round of interviews . So basically , you can get an interview request until you get a rejection letter . However , I would suspect that the bulk of interview requests go out by late February .
My rule of thumb -- whether for Bachelor , Master , or PhD theses -- is to assume precisely the level of knowledge the student had when starting to work on this topic . ( I.e. , " How would you like to have had this explained to you ? " )
How should you cite ? There is a format for citing web references for nearly any citation style . In the <URL> Last , First M. " Article Title . " Website Title . Website Publisher , Date Month Year Published . Web . Date Month Year Accessed . In <URL> Author , A. ( date ) . Title of document [ Format description ] . Retrieved from Website You may leave out the author field when it is not possible to retrace the original author ( as described <URL> ) When should you cite ? If you were to refer a material that has sufficient information to be given credit for your work , then by all means you ought to cite it . But first , try to find the roots of the idea , if such idea has been published elsewhere before this web-page was published . On-line content is highly susceptible to contain plagiarized content . See if you could locate the original source . If found , cite the original source instead .
The majority of the question 's text concerns minutiae about syllabi and percentages that are unlikely to be of interest to anyone except the OP . The question would be significantly improved by eliding / summarizing this information and concentrating on the core question : What happens when multiple , conflicting syllabi are given out for the same course ? Does the student have a legitimate grievance when one syllabus is being followed but not the other , at the expense of his grade ? I think these are reasonable questions for our site . My answer to the first question is : yikes . Three different instructors for the same course , three different syllabi , and one of the instructors ( the chair ! ) does not even know about both of the other syllabi ? What a mess . In general having courses taught by more than one faculty member makes things harder and necessitates much more explicit , advanced planning . This course does not sound well-planned . As soon as you get talk about which syllabus is more " official " than the others , things are not going well . I do n't think there is a standard , easy answer to this question , and I do n't see any coherent answer which does not admit mistakes on the part of the faculty . On the other hand I wonder why this issue did not come up earlier in the course : on the first day of class every student was in possession of two contradictory syllabi and no one noticed ? I find that curious and am not sure what to make of it . My answer to the second question is : yes , I think so . If you show up to some higher administrative official with two syllabi in hand and say that you want to be held to the standard of the syllabus you were given first , you have a good shot at getting some traction on this . However I would encourage you to try to resolve the matter as non-combatively as possible : if you are a graduate student in the program , getting the chair chewed out by ( say ) her dean is likely to have some effect on your course grade , but it may have other , less pleasant effects down the line . I would begin by doing what you have already done : clearly pointing out the discrepancy between the two syllabi and the significant effect it may/will have on your course grade . You should indicate that you proceeded in the course with an understanding based on the first syllabus that you received and that you would like this to be taken into account in the course grade . Give them a chance to do this for you before you escalate the situation . Finally , the business about the 75 belonging to two grade ranges : in my opinion you look petty by bringing that up at all ( look at the reaction your question has received ) . The purpose of the grading system being spelled out in advance is for students to be sure they are treated fairly and to be able to have some rough means of predicting what kind of performance will lead to what kind of grade . There is nothing that you or any student would have done differently if 75 belongs to one grade range rather than the other . I agree with other commenters who said that the time you spent complaining about that would be better spent learning the material and improving your performance in the course . Mixing legitimate , serious grading concerns with " grade-grubbing " is not a good strategy .
In my opinion and experience , it is relatively rare for an MSc thesis to yield truly original research resulting in a paper . The primary goal of a MSc thesis is to teach you important research skills : come up with a general idea of what to do , researching literature , coming up with a specific question that you want to address , performing research ( computations , fieldwork , lab experiments ) , and finally writing it down in a thesis . If you successfully complete this cycle , I think your MSc thesis is a success . If the thesis , after some editing , is original enough to end up as a journal paper this is a big bonus .
Aside from the programs/universities mentioned in <URL> which Zenon gave in a comment , it appears that you may need to tweak a molecular gastronomy program to fit your interests . The Italian <URL> looks to have several programs that might fit your desired focus .
You say that your work on methods is uninteresting , but that you believe the results to be valuable . That 's great ! You should write a paper about the results ! Sometimes people feel like the amount of manuscript text they produce for each aspect of their work should be proportional to the time and energy put into that aspect , e.g. , if you spent 3/4 of your time working on the methods , then your text should be approximately 3/4 about the methods . That is incorrect . The amount of space something takes up in the text should be proportional to how interesting it is to the reader . Sometimes you have to put in a lot of work on something that is very simple to explain , and that 's OK . Focus on the bits that will be interesting to the reader , and instead tell your friends the stories of how long and hard you worked on the " uninteresting " bits to get there .
I doubt there are any drawbacks to posting on such a site , other than the time required . But I also doubt there are very many advantages . I do n't think very many people will look on such sites for theses . If I need something from a PhD thesis , my algorithm would be something like this : Look for published papers by the student which discuss the work . Google the student 's name and thesis title . Look for the student 's website . Look on the department 's website . Look on the institution 's library 's website . Try to contact the student ( via website or Google search ) and ask if they will send me a copy . Try to contact the student 's advisor and ask if they have a copy . Contact someone else I know at the institution , and ask if they can find the thesis in their library . Try to get a copy from <URL> ( last resort ) . Searching other repositories would probably come somewhere between steps 8 and 9 . So if you can try to make sure your thesis is findable at some earlier stage of this process , you probably do n't need to bother with much more .
The proportion of " homegrown " to " ... imported ? " PhDs varies depending on your discipline , but at the science end of things ( I 'm in computer science , but know plenty of mathematicians and also majored in chemistry as an undergraduate ) it 's quite international . Apart from pathological cases ( known " bad " universities , or otherwise extremely dubious universities ) , where you got your PhD is not particularly important . As Jeromy says in another answer , international experience is definitely viewed favourably though . My having done my doctorate overseas has definitely been a boon . The real criteria are performance based ; publications , teaching ( especially awards or other recognition ) and ability to bring in the grant money ! ( That last one in quite important , for better or worse ) . As a recent Doctorate , you 'll mainly need to show that you can conduct quality research . Just for some completely non-statistically-significant stats , my Australian undergrad . chemistry department had about 50 % overseas PhDs , my CS department had more like 90 % overseas PhDs and my maths department had about 50 % too . At my current ( Australian ) department ( CS ) , it 's probably about 70-80 % overseas PhDs ( though that 's a guesstimate at the moment ) , including me . Of course the caveat is , again , this will change from department to department and university to university . Some like to only hire their own graduates , others will never hire their own graduates . Your best course is really to contact the academics offering the jobs , establish a bit of an informal relationship and find out what each position is looking for .
end question
start question
Does Pop-Science involvement hurt one 's reputation ?
If certain fields of academia do in fact frown upon " popularizing " science , then they are shooting themselves in the foot . One of the most important ways of securing funding in different disciplines is through getting support by the federal governments in which they are working . Convincing politician X that you should fund research on doohickey X and widget Y to solve problem Z rather than funding their new shopping mall or football stadium requires convincing them that your research is important and worthwhile . The key to doing this is having a message to sell -- something that the lobbyists and staff persons working for the government officials can take to them and say " this is what you need to know about why this is important . " An excellent way of doing this is to take part in writing columns , producing features for television , and other " popular " methods of outreach . You 'll have to figure out how to distill your message in a way that 's exciting for the viewer or reader , and that will help no only you but your peers as well .
I agree with Seteropere completely , " Network Science " is a very broad subject . I work with the theory of " dynamic networks " which involves a lot of graph theory , complex networks , and time series analysis , but also in protocol design for Delay Tolerant Networks which is another application you might like . Take a look at this website , <URL> it has plenty of links that I rate very highly . Including links to Alain Barrat 's work ( check out <URL> it has some wonderful illustrations of dynamic networks ) . There is also a conference devoted specifically to Temporal and Dynamic Networks <URL> Here are some of the tips I sent to a recent new student in our department , most are free in that there are no paywalls : Look at the references on the most recent papers you are reading , and also look at the conferences and journals that the authors are involved in by visiting their personal websites . This will tell you where people are currently submitting to . There are some websites devoted to finding conferences too , but do n't rely on them . Some examples : <URL> <URL> Find a conference you like the look of , look at their calls for papers , and past proceedings to see what they are asking for . Mailing lists ! Sign up to ( but do n't spam ) well known mailing lists . Again this will be dependent on the area you are interested in . In computer networking the biggest mailing list for calls for papers is probably the IEEE TCCC mailing list , <URL> . Social networks . Sign up to Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin / etc. . A lot of Phd Students , PostDocs , lecturers , research groups , and conferences are on Twitter . When you find someone or something you like , look for it on social networking sites , look who is following , what they are talking about , and get involved . Good luck .
Conferences are organized differently in different subfield of computer science ; my answer describes the situation in theory . At theoretical computer science conferences , the program committees are relatively small , in part because submissions from program committee members are strictly forbidden . Each submitted paper is assigned to 2-4 PC members to review ; for a typical conference this means each PC member is assigned 25-50 papers to review . Reviewing that many papers is a huge burden , and despite a preliminary bidding process , every PC member is assigned at least a few papers outside their areas of expertise . So PC members regularly solicit reviews from people outside the committee whose expertise better matches a given paper . Those people are external reviewers . Normally each PC member tries to gets a different external reviewer for each paper ( except the papers they review on their own ) , but a single external reviewer might get papers from multiple PC members . ( In other communities , what I call " PC members " are called " area chairs " , and what I 'm calling " external reviewers " are called " PC members " . ) Does this mean the person officially reviews the paper for the conference , or he/she gets a request to review from someone who officially reviews the paper ? Both . A list of all external reviewers is typically included in the conference proceedings just after the table of contents ( <URL> ) as official acknowledgement of their service . On the other hand , PC members are expected to use the external reviews they solicit as guidelines , not as substitutes for their own judgement , especially when comparing submissions that were reviewed by different people .
I do n't think it is inherently unethical to do this . If all relevant parties know about it and you scrupulously acknowledge this other person 's work , then I see no specific problem . Whether it is advisable is a different question ... and one you should certainly ask your advisor . I have to say that it does not sound like such a good idea to me . Your thesis work is for you to do ... almost by definition . It is perfectly fine to get help from others on your thesis , and some people are better programmers than others ( even in CS , I imagine ) , so getting some pointers from a friend is actually a good idea . But paying someone to do a part of your thesis work just does n't sound good to me . Either the programming is an important part of your thesis or it is n't . If it is , you should do it yourself . If it is n't , maybe you do n't need to do it at all , or do n't need to do it to the degree that an outside professional would . There is also the issue of the impression this subcontracting would make on others . Perhaps the cultural norms in your field are very different from mine ( again : ask your advisor ) , but I would have a rather negative impression of a PhD student who did this : they do n't seem to be very committed to their own work . Added : To be clear , I am interpreting the question as meaning that the doctoral student himself is doing the hiring : i.e. , that this is his idea and he is using his own funds . ( If his university is giving him funding and simply asking him to pick someone to work with , then even asking the question " Is it ethical ? " becomes less plausible . ) In terms of suspecting that this is not a good idea , I hope I was clear that this is my personal opinion , with experience from a field ( mathematics ) which is rather closely related to CS but is not necessarily identical . As I said , the OP should consult their advisor about this . However , for what it 's worth I find it hard to believe that the reaction will be " Sure , spend your money . " While not unethical on the OP 's part , it seems , shall we say , suboptimal if both advisor and student feel that this is the best way to proceed .
Extremely uncommon I understand that interviews are fairly common in other fields and in other countries , but they are rare in computer science in the US . In my experience ( student , postdoc , or faculty at five different American CS departments ; multiple years on graduate admissions committees ; dozens of recommendation letters for CS undergraduates applying to graduate school ) , very few ( if any ) American computer science departments include interviews as a standard part of the PhD application process . There are rare exceptions , though , usually involving prospective advisors calling up applicants directly . The most common reason for a phone interview in my department is to assess their English fluency , especially when the applicant 's test scores are borderline , or there seems to be a discrepancy between their test scores and the fluency of their statements . I 'd be surprised if this happens more than 10 times a year , and we get 2000 grad applications each year . When I applied to Berkeley 's PhD program , I was already a PhD student at UC Irvine . My future advisor and the director of grad admissions called me to ask why I wanted to move when I seemed to be succeeding in my current program ( good advisor , good research progress , and so on ) . I suspect they also wanted to understand the discrepancy betwen my grad school grades ( good ) and my undergrad grades ( terrible ) . In short , as long as there 's nothing borderline or non-standard in your application , it 's unlikely that you 'd need to be available for an interview . And even if someone does want to interview you , they 're much more likely to want to do it by phone or skype than in person .
There 's nothing on your CV that needs to indicate exactly how you were supported during your Ph.D. . In fact , if you were self-funded , and managed to get an occasional fellowship or other form of support , that 's a plus ! All a recruiting committee should ( and does ) care about post-PhD is the quality of your work ( for faculty positions there are additional issues ) . No one cares about how you were paid to do that work .
This is the first I 've heard of a " Doctor of Computer Science " degree . Not having a dissertation requirement is a clear sign that this is different from a " standard " Ph.D program . A Ph.D ( in any discipline ) requires you to produce an original piece of research that you defend to a committee of experts . In addition , most Ph.D programs will have course requirements , residency requirements and so on . Update : Some googling led me to the Wikipedia entry on ' <URL> ' , which most closely match the nature of the degree the OP describes . As Austin Henley points out , this is close in spirit to an MD ( USA ) and JD .
I find that a good way ( for me ) to get excited about my research is to work with some inexperienced research students - high school and undergraduate students . Mentoring these students reminds me of the things that excited me about research when I first started : mainly , that we can come up with some problem that we think is interesting , that has n't previously been solved , and then go ahead and solve it . I still think that is so cool , and seeing that reaction in my students reminds me all over again :) Also , I get to feel like an expert in this scenario , which helps makes me more excited about my work . Generally , I find that spending time with others who are passionate and excited encourages those feelings in me , too .
The answer is strongly conditional on discipline and , to a lesser extent , country of origin . Conventions vary widely , as does the degree to which they are institutionalized . For instance , in some fields ( e.g. , Philosophy ) , co-authorship is not common and there is no convention about attribution , so absent an explicit note people are are likely to think the more senior author is the primary one . In Sociology , co-authorship is common and the convention is that the first author is the lead author unless there is a note indicating equal authorship . In Economics , co-authorship has become increasingly common over the past few decades but the convention is to list authors alphabetically , regardless of degree of contribution . In some fields the primary author may be determined by looking to see if there 's a note specifying to whom correspondence should be directed , regardless of order of authorship on the paper . Meanwhile in many lab-based science disciplines , where it 's sole authorship that 's rare , author order is governed by different norms . In some fields , the first author is the one who is primarily responsible for the paper ( what that means can vary , too ) , the last author is the lab head or primary grant-holder , and the order of authors in between is sometimes influenced by other norms . But other conventions exist , too . Knowing what they are and how to interpret them is part of one 's socialization into a discipline . To make things more complicated , some fields -- or some journals , or some labs , or some individual authors -- may have their own rules or conventions designed to clarify things by listing credit more explicitly . Even worse , there may be a kind of hermeneutics of author-order where people parcel out credit to different contributors regardless of order of authorship , as when someone says " Sure , X is the first author and Y helped him write it up but it 's obvious the paper was Z 's idea " . In your case , if your lab or unit is using a convention that 's not standard in your field the most straightforward solution is to make a note of this in your articles . This is n't an ideal solution because papers will still be cited or referenced without people paying attention to your clarifying note , but there is n't much you can do about that .
Is there any academic value in publishing a book that is based ( approx . three quarters of it ) on existing ( peer-reviewed ) material ? If well done , this seems like a useful book to me . Bringing together various related papers , adding some expository material for readers not yet intimately aware of the field , providing some perspective through use cases ... why not ? Remember that in CS , the point of books is almost never to have original material . Books in CS are meant as a collection / introduction to a topic , not as a venue for new research contributions ( that 's what we have conferences for ) . Also , as I am considering applying for assistant professor positions ( I am currently working on contract basis ) , I would like to ask how is this book monograph viewed at by hiring committees ? Is it considered vanity or a plus ? Springer is n't a typical vanity press outlet , so I ca n't see a hiring committee outright discarding your publication there . I guess it will be a small plus ( or a bigger plus , if the book turns out really good and becomes better-known in the field ) . However , your actual original research will probably be much more significant .
The <URL> looked at PhD completion rates in the UK . In the UK , PhD programs are nominally 3 years long , and the Times reported that , averaged across all fields , 70 % of students obtain a PhD within 7 years . They predict that 80 % of students who start a PhD in the UK will obtain one within 25 years . There are some data for <URL> which shows completion rates asymptote at around 80 % after about 8-10 years . There is a fair amount of variability across fields in how quickly the asymptote is reached ( e.g. , the average PhD in Business is short compared to Medicine ) , but in all fields about 80 % of students obtain a PhD . I was not able to find any numbers for German universities or CS specifically . These numbers , however , leave out the substantial number of students who stick out grad school because they do not want to " fail " . While trying out grad school might sound good in theory , just make sure you are the type of person willing to drop out if it is not right for you .
In my experience , this varies widely , even for different iterations of the same confernence . Sometimes invitations go out two months before the conference ; other times they go out two months after the conference . Write the PC chair and ask . Unless you have good reason to believe your paper is likely to be invited ( based on the reviews or other feedback , not just your own personal opinion ) , you should probably ask when and how papers will be selected , not whether your paper is being invited .
It is much easier to get a job in an top-notch industry research lab than an R1 professorship for one simple reason : there are vastly more such research lab jobs available . To illustrate this , let 's consider an illustrative example . The <URL> has 55 professors . To sustain a department of that size , they 'll probably be hiring 2-4 people per year , depending on what fraction fail to make tenure . Meanwhile , right next door is its cousin , <URL> , with about <URL> : most of those do n't have PhDs , but a lot of them do , and a quick search on their open job postings finds more than a dozen that are looking for a PhD-level candidate right now . That 's just one company , and one you 've probably never even heard of . There 's a lot more big ones out there , and far more than that if you start considering the smaller ones as well . Now , getting back into a professorship , that 's a different story . It most certainly can be done , if you maintain a good research presence . For most people , however , the trip to industry is a one-way trip , simply because you generally do n't have to publish . Many research companies like it when you publish , and many strongly encourage it -- but the fact that they have to encourage it should tell you that the incentives are just not there the same way . At a company , you are not measured primarily by your ability to publish , and so it tends to get triaged in favor of other things , like writing proposals , delivering demos to customers , or product development . There 's nothing against publishing , but there 's no " publish or perish " and so there 's a lot less publishing . Bottom line : you can move in either direction , but it 's a lot easier to move from university to industry than the reverse .
You could aim at technical universities ( in Germany and Switzerland , they are called " Fachhochschulen " , Universities of Applied Sciences ) . Their focus is more on applied research and teaching . I worked 2 years there as a researcher without a MS in CS .
I 've occasionally seen letters with incorrect graduate program names , and it 's not something I 'd worry about . It 's never bothered me , and while I 've seen other committee members point it out , I 've never gotten the impression that they particularly cared . ( They 've pointed it out in the spirit of " Oops , someone messed up " rather than " Here 's a negative factor we should keep in mind . " ) There are two cases in which it could be harmful : If you name a substantially lower-ranked program , then the reader might wonder whether this low ranking influenced your recommendation . ( Maybe you have several variants of the letter , and send more enthusiastic variants to lower-ranked programs . ) If you include any comments about how suitable this specific program is for the applicant , then of course these comments will become worthless if you name the wrong school . However , most letters for applicants to graduate school do n't include such comments , and even when they do it 's rarely a crucial part of the letter . ( It 's particularly awkward if you send Harvard a letter talking about what a perfect fit Yale would be and how you have encouraged the applicant to go there if accepted . ) You mention the possibility of hurting the applicant by revealing where else they have applied . Theoretically , this could look weird or problematic if they 've made eccentric choices about where to apply . ( If a top program knows they 're also applying to a much lower-ranked program , then the committee might take it as an admission of weakness or an indication that the applicant has a strong personal reason to go elsewhere . ) However , I would n't worry about it in practice . It 's expected that everyone will apply to a range of schools , and I do n't recall ever having seen a case I thought would really worry admissions committees .
As a general rule , my PhD students need to do two things to get a PhD : Publish 3-4 papers on a coherent topic , mostly in top-tier theoretical computer science conferences , including at least one paper without me as a co-author ( and preferably at least one paper that was previously rejected ) . Jump a bunch of administrative hurdles : do n't screw up classes , do n't screw up TAing , pass quals , gather a committee , propose a thesis , write a thesis , defend a thesis . That 's it . In my experience , most PhD students do way more than this . A couple of comments on the original question : Very few students " finish " their thesis topic . Equivalently : If a research question can be closed in just one or two papers , it 's probably not a good thesis topic . Good research opens as many new problems as it solves . Reaching the point where further collaboration with a student is unproductive means the student-advisor relationship has failed . Sometimes students really do exhaust their research potential , despite their advisors ' efforts ; in my experience , those students usually do n't get PhDs . ( Most successful students reach " critical mass " long before they finish . ) More often , this happens because the advisor is n't giving the student enough appropriate guidance .
If you have an otherwise excellent application , then withdrawing from a single course is unlikely to make much of a difference , especially a course in another field . For example , if you get A 's in four graduate math classes and drop a physics class in the same semester , I doubt any math graduate school will care . It could look a little strange if the dropped course were on your proposed specialty ( so people would think you 'd be particularly enthusiastic about it ) , but even that would n't be a disaster . If you are n't taking many courses and are getting worrisome grades in the others , then a W may look like you 're narrowly avoiding an even worse grade , but in that case your application already has problems aside from the W. Overall , the way I 'd look at it is that the W might intensify other weaknesses in your application , but is n't likely to be a big obstacle in isolation .
As was suggested in the comments , if you want to share your thesis with researchers in other countries , it is better to write it in English than in other languages . However , I will go further than that and say that in the 21st century , English is the lingua franca of communication in most technical fields . If you want to participate in the wider technical community in a meaningful way , developing your ability to express yourself in English , both orally and in written form , is essential . Therefore , you should avail yourself of opportunities to work in English whenever practical . It is still important to be able to communicate in your local language , but this is becoming less of an issue as time goes on : for many people , they do scientific work in English , even if their everyday workplace conversations are in another language !
Especially if you are applying for funding , the admissions committee is taking a risk when they decide to admit each student . If a student comes and does not succeed , the department may have incurred expenses for the time the person was there , and they do n't have another successful graduate they can show for it . Is the reason you dropped out before something that still affects your likelihood to drop out again ? That 'll be a question on the committee 's mind as they 're reading . Having been expelled before would be a bigger issue , because it means you were a major problem for the previous place and most universities do n't want to have people who they think would be likely to cause big problems like that for them . An applicant with this background would definitely be expected to explain what 's changed . Some departments expect a certain percentage of students to be " weeded out " or not make it through ; find out what the norm is where you 're applying . Also find out what the culture is in terms of encouraging people to branch out and try new things , but then be able to recognize when something 's not working out and stop going down a path that does n't lead to fruitful goals ( once that 's recognizable ) . These are important parts of research , and I think most faculty understand that . In your applications , clearly explain what happened , and how you made the most of it . Is the experience you gained an asset that can help you now ? Also ( this applies more broadly ) explain why you want to now go back into academia and into the program you 're applying for and why you think you 'll be able to make the most of that opportunity , if admitted . If you just assume your history makes you ineligible and do n't apply , you wo n't be admitted . If you do apply and explain things clearly , you have a chance , higher than zero .
If certain fields of academia do in fact frown upon " popularizing " science , then they are shooting themselves in the foot . One of the most important ways of securing funding in different disciplines is through getting support by the federal governments in which they are working . Convincing politician X that you should fund research on doohickey X and widget Y to solve problem Z rather than funding their new shopping mall or football stadium requires convincing them that your research is important and worthwhile . The key to doing this is having a message to sell -- something that the lobbyists and staff persons working for the government officials can take to them and say " this is what you need to know about why this is important . " An excellent way of doing this is to take part in writing columns , producing features for television , and other " popular " methods of outreach . You 'll have to figure out how to distill your message in a way that 's exciting for the viewer or reader , and that will help no only you but your peers as well .
end question
start question
What happens if a math PhD student fails to find a proof that is the main objective of his/her thesis topic ?
I wrote a failed dissertation myself . No papers resulted from it . Fortunately , I had a significant side project which was published , and 11 years later , the main thread of my research still comes from this side project . ( I suppose I could have written up the side project as my dissertation instead , but I did n't . ) First , no project is ever a complete failure . At the very least , you manage to prove some ( possibly almost trivial ) special cases , you prove some helpful lemmas , you find that certain lemmas you might have hoped would be helpful have counterexamples , and you find certain methods that you might use do n't apply because some hypotheses needed to use those methods are n't satisfied in your case . It 's possible to write all of these things up , ending up with a dissertation that 's basically about " How not to solve Problem X ( except in this very tiny special case ) " . ( This is basically my dissertation . ) Second , it 's rare for mathematics graduate students , especially at top programs , to work on only one problem . Your advisor might suggest a main problem for you to work on , but you go to seminars and hear about other problems , talk to other graduate students or postdocs and learn about other problems , and so on , and graduate students are generally encouraged to spend at least a little time thinking about these other problems . If you get stuck on your main problem , you still have other problems to solve , and it 's quite common that what you learned to work on your main problem ends up helping you in solving these other problems instead . ( This is basically what happened to me , except this other problem did n't end up in my dissertation . ) Third , especially in the early stages of working on a problem , advisors are usually fairly quick at pulling the hook if it looks like no progress is being made . Most advisors know of lots of problems , and they know what complete lack of progress due to a problem being too hard looks like . Even later on , advisors can sometimes suggest simpler problems that can be solved in a shorter time frame ( given what a student has already learned ) . In some cases , after a few rounds of failed problems , the student ends up with a dissertation that 's about as weighty as a half-decent undergraduate research project ( and results in zero papers or one paper in a " write-only " journal ) . It 's true that a dissertation written out of a failed or almost trivial project tends not to bode well in applications for jobs where research matters ( unless there is a more substantial side project ) . Sometimes an influential or convincing advisor can make a strong enough case in recommendation letters for the student to get a postdoc , but this is harder now then it was 10 years ago given how much more competitive the job market is .
I completely agree with ff524 's criteria , but here are some further considerations : A good thesis topic should not be all or nothing . Instead , it should accommodate a range of levels of ambition . There should be fallback options that would be enough to graduate even if things go poorly , moderately ambitious outcomes that you could reasonably aim for , and very ambitious outcomes that would be fantastic if they could be achieved . It should offer scope for creativity and choice by the student . You can only impress hiring committees so much if it looks like your advisor was the mastermind behind your thesis . Instead , it has to be clear that over time you took ownership of the project and played a major role in determining its direction ( even if your advisor made the initial suggestion and provided feedback and guidance ) . Your thesis topic should connect with other topics you 'd like to explore in the future . If you spend your entire early career revisiting and elaborating on your thesis topic , it wo n't set you up for success as a researcher . Instead , you need to branch out , and your choice of thesis topic can really help with this . Choose a topic that is central and well-connected to adjacent areas , rather than one that is isolated . That way you can build on your previous experience as you branch out . Your thesis advisor needs to care about the topic . Sometimes people are willing to supervise theses on topics they do n't particularly care about . They do this in an attempt to be helpful , but it can end up working against you when you graduate and discover that your advisor 's lack of caring translates into a lack of support on the job market . For a multi-year project like a thesis , it 's generally best to pick a topic that seems to be becoming more popular and influential over time , rather than less so . This sounds obvious , but it 's surprisingly subtle to figure out . Beginners are sometimes a little behind the times and can get excited by topics that were hot a few years ago but have since been thoroughly investigated and are already in decline . It should be something you like doing , not just something you would like to have done .
Honestly , my expectations for undergraduate theses are very limited . Any well-written discussion that demonstrates significant understanding of the research area is probably satisfactory . A doctoral dissertation is supposed to demonstrate significant research skill and the ability to perform cutting-edge research . A master 's thesis is supposed to demonstrate the ability to perform some useful research in the subject area . An undergraduate thesis is supposed to demonstrate that a student knows something worth knowing about a topic , and original results are not generally a requirement . In a way , it is good that you are unhappy with your undergraduate honors thesis . That demonstrates that you know what you have actually accomplished and also clearly understand the weaknesses of your work . It may be unfortunate that you have not had enough time to complete all the work you would have liked to complete , but if you continue along an academic career path , you will get ample opportunities to pursue more complete research projects . ( As a personal note , I should add that as I am writing this comment , I really ought to be providing comments on the thesis draft that I received the other day from my own honors college student . This is a really good student , and he has already appeared as an author on a paper in a top journal , based on his work over the past year . On the other hand , his written thesis is lacking in both contextualization and descriptive detail . To bring his work up to the level where I would like it to be would be a significant undertaking , and it is probably not going to get to that level in the limited time we have . To some extent , that leaves me disappointed , but I do not want to lose track of the fact that this is a really first-rate student , and what he has produced -- imperfect as it is -- is quite remarkable for an twenty-one-year-old undergraduate . )
I do n't know why you think there are any options other than both . Of course you should n't just say " I 'm having difficulties , full stop " without talking about what you have tried . Of course you should n't just say " this is what I did " without also talking about where you 're stuck . You sound like you 're worried about making the best impression on this professor . The best impression you can make here is showing that you have the maturity to deal with doing research : to work hard on a problem , be aware of both what you 've accomplished and what you have n't , and be able to ask for help where you need it . There are bunch of things that could be happening : You went off in the wrong direction , or missed something , and the professor will be able to help get you back on the right track . The problem is actually harder than the professor thought , and explaining why you 're stuck will make that clear to them . The problem is harder than you thought , and the professor expected you to need some help . In all of those cases , the absolute best thing to do is honestly present the work you 've done . The less you worry about framing things to make you look good , the better you actually end up looking .
Short answer : they are two different ( but overlapping ) subjects . Medium answer : Applied math is a broad term that can mean anything from mathematical physics to machine learning to cryptography to numerical analysis to biostatistics to ... the list goes on . And it can mean different things at different universities/departments . There is plenty of applied math that does n't involve statistics . I would go as far as to say that less than half of applied math involves statistics , although the prevalence of statistics is growing . And even though , philosophically speaking , statistics may be a form of applied mathematics , there are plenty of subjects within statistics that are not what people usually refer to as applied math .
The general advice is that when you 're an undergraduate student , a graduate student not yet on the job market , or when you 're a tenured faculty , you can do whatever the hell you want . The problem is that you are vulnerable when you 're in the position to be hired , promoted , tenured , or retained . In those cases , having just one conservative person on the hiring/promotion/retention committee ( or at the divisional , full faculty , dean or provost levels ) can derail you . In those circumstances , you want to stand out in terms of your research , service , and teaching but to try to avoid or mitigate any areas of friction where and when possible . Since hair color is easily changeable , if I were your advisor , I would recommend that you dress ( and hair color ) more conservatively when you go on the job market -- and when you come up for promotion/retention/tenure . I would also recommend you wear shoes at your job interview . The benefit to risk analysis just is n't in favor of frivolity in these high stakes situations . Your departmental faculty may be 100 % behind you and your sartorial style but I 've seen faculty lose tenure bids at the divisional , full faculty , and provost level despite department support . I 've seen grad students not get hired because they wore a t-shirt to a job interview thinking the institution was a cool , hip place . It was , just not that hip . At all other times during your career , I think you are relatively free to do what you want within the broader norms of your particular cohort and department . Note that while my home department is anthropology and I 'm currently at a R1 , I 've also taught at two SLACs and have seen enough shenanigans in other departments and at divisional/university levels that my advice is not restricted to just anthropology at R1s but is intended as general advice . Ymmv .
For me , it means two things : I am really busy I do n't know anything about the job you 're applying to and what you want to emphasize about yourself If the first draft you write is something I ca n't sign , I 'll edit it or I wo n't sign it . If it 's not braggy enough , I might add some emphasis . But metaphorically handing me a piece of blank paper and asking me to recommend you is actually asking me to put in quite a lot of work . Do these people you 're applying to value initiative ? Creativity ? Willingness to work long hard hours ? Cheerfullness ? A driven nature ? A gentle spirit ? Is the fact you write great software relevant to them ? How about your careful bench work ? For all I know you want to do less of one thing and more of another . So now I need to ask you a zillion questions about what you want to emphasize , and maybe go research the job too , and then ask you if what I 've written is ok - frankly , it 's way easier to ask you to write the first draft . And some days , I take the easy route . It does not mean : I intend to sign words I did n't write . I will write the final draft It 's ok for you to make up strengths you do n't have You 'll know what I send in the end I ca n't write a simple letter without help from a student . Your first draft does n't even have to be a letter , it can be point form . But tell me you 're choosing me as a reference so I can confirm your amazing Xness , Yabilty and Zation . If I can , I will . By the way , I wish I could find the idiot who started the theory that it means I do n't think well of you and want you to retract your request . Several students have retracted their requests after I asked for a first draft , and that 's a shame , because I would have cheerfully signed a glowing recommendation for them . I just did n't have time to write it all from scratch myself .
I should not contact my network about potential jobs at any particular university because I would sound too " desperate " . Oh , please . Your chair probably remembers the Good Old Days when you could submit three applications with your one publication " in progress " and get two interviews and four offers . Yes , of course you should contact people in your professional network . The academic job search is no time for shyness or modesty . You need to sell yourself . You need other people to sell you . Ask them if their departments are planning to hire , and if so , what their hiring priorities are . ( And no , you can not get this information from the text of their ad . ) Ask some of them to write recommendation letters on your behalf . At least in computer science , you must have at least one reference letter , preferrably more , from someone who is not from your home institution and not a coauthor , but who can still write in detail about the quality , depth , originality , and impact of your work . Congratulations , you 've cultivated the perfect environment to find such people . Write them to let them know you 've applied , and ask them ( directly , shamelessly ) to put in a good word with their hiring committee . You will not get an offer from any department , and you may not even get an interview , without a local champion inside that department ; the champion does n't have to know you personally , but it certainly helps . ( Of course , a better way to cultivate a champion is to knock your interview out of the park . ) Always thank people for any information or help , even if they just say " Sorry , we 're not hiring in your field this year . " or " Good luck ! "
Your role as a teaching assistant is to further the educational goals of the course ( as determined by the instructor and/or the department ) . If encouraging your students to read these materials furthers the educational goals of the course , then you should do so . If not , then you should n't . Since the instructor and/or the department determines what the educational goals of the class are , you should check with them first , and use your extra material only with their approval . ( Besides for the issue of making sure your material is consistent with the goals of the course , it also makes sense for them to be aware of what is going on . )
First off the fact that one group is dominating will be implicitly understood if you provide a paragraph or two summarizing their work and cite their publications . In such a paragraph you could add words like " ground-breaking " or phrases that describe the dominance of the group on the field . You could for example start the paragraph by saying : " The work concerning risk assessment of [ ... ] has largely been carried out by [ the research group ] ( example citations ) . " ( I hope you see the main idea of my attempt ) Then you follow up on what they have done and cite their work . It is just important to keep the tone as neutral as possible and let the citeable work speak for itself . Spending one or more paragraphs describing the work should be enough to make everyone understand the message .
I do n't think there is any universal answer to this question . I just defended about 8 hours ago , in my case there was a pre-defense and a defense . The pre-defense in our program tells the student what needs to be done to successfully finish the program , the actual public defense is largely ceremonial . When I met in private with the committee they just shook my hand and that was the end of it . I am aware of other defenses , where there is an oral exam after the non-committee members exit the room . But , from what I have been told the questions in this exam are largely for clarification , and to determine what needs to be done to graduate . I 'm sure some others can clarify , but usually your dissertation advisor has your back , and you have already done the work at that point . So the defense is more of a chance for you to share your work , than a second order comprehensive exam . It really depends on your country , institution , department , and program .
the h-index is an interesting measure , but it changes all the times microsoft search does it Google author search does it ( see an example <URL> ) the freely available tool <URL> does it you could try and triangulate the numbers that you get and find the average , as a possible solution
Of course , you 'll get there by engaging in a lot of activities where you will meet new people and work with people who will learn to know you . I recommend choosing them according to a few criteria : Activities of a seemingly technical ( or practical ) nature . As a PhD student , you probably do n't want to be on boring committees , board-style meetings , interdepartmental seminars . You will meet people , but not in a way that fosters collaboration . ( However , you may want to attend these events for other purposes . Meeting key people involved in hiring decisions at a given institution is one such purpose that comes to mind . ) Informal settings . This favors meeting new people and getting to know them much better . Favor small meetings over big ones . Aim for a few persons you want to meet . Identify people you would like to approach ( at a big event ) , then check what events they attend . Manage to invite people for talks at your institution . Okay , this one might be a bit difficult for a PhD student in some places , but if you can manage to get someone invited for a day or two , get him to give a talk and discuss your research and his , it will be worth it . Do not shy away from " learning " events : tutorials , " hands-on with XXX library " type of things . All in all , I think the kind of events you want to engage in are : Open source projects : you listed that one already Workshops close to your research topic : these typically involve few people and long discussions . Many of my strongest collaborations ( and a few friendships ) grew out of workshops . Tutorials organized on topics related , but not too close , to your research : you will learn stuff , meet people in a relaxed setting . Do n't be shy of going to workshops where you already know some of the stuff , if only to put it in practice and discuss with the best experts . Also , be ready to present your own work and identify convergences with lecturers and other participants .
Yes , it is fair . The quality of reviews written by highly experienced researchers is low . Many manuscripts have obvious flaws that should be spotted by the inexperienced . Reviewers are ( in theory ) supervised by the editor . Novice reviewers are more enthusiastic than experienced reviewers . If the paper can not be understood by a PhD student , it will not be useful to very many people . PhD students may have more specialized expertise because they work on fewer projects , as compared to senior researchers ( per @nayrb ) Of course , it depends on the individual PhD student . Some are better prepared to review than others .
The authors would like to thank Jane Doe for her assistance in the preparation of this article . or some variation of the sentence above .
As a PhD student I did exactly that , contacting professors for exchange about two years ago , and that worked very well for me . ( I ended up visiting a top UK university and the collaboration was , and still is , very productive . ) My supervisor was involved in discussing the places I wanted to go , but I handled all contact . Some advice : Study the professor 's webpage ( if they have one ) to see if it says anything about collaborations . If it says on their webpage that they have no time , do n't contact them . Send the professor an email , give them a week or two to answer , then follow up with a second reminder-email if there is no reply . Important things to do/mention : Make sure the email is very short , but that it still describes precisely what you want to collaborate on . Professors are chronically short on time . If you have a travel grant etc. that will fund your stay , it 's important to say so . ( They 're much more likely to accept you if they do n't have to spend any money . But I think most universities will waive term fees if you ask them . ) Add a sentence about your accomplishments so far , so they have some impression that having you visit is going to be a net gain for them . Mention any papers you 've co-authored , if you add a link make sure it 's short ( DOI , arXiv etc ) . Try to keep the email self-contained , but linking to any papers , your CV or research webpage " for more information about me " is OK . Also add a sentence describing how you think your proposed topic fits with what they are doing , so they know you 've actually checked out their group and read some of their papers etc. . In my experience , most people reply positively to such an email , so first send emails to the two or three places you want to visit the most . If none of those are successful , send to the next few places on your list . YMMV though .
If you are after highly cited work , <URL> has such a functionality under the tab <URL> : <URL> You can search highly cited work e.g. by subject or by year but note that citations come in slowly into MathSciNet , so data from a year ago may not say too much yet .
These can be useful research tools , but be specific about how your expertise in Office and Photoshop can help you with your proposed research project . Do n't just say that you are good at Office and Photoshop generally . I suspect most people have some knowledge about how to use them anyway and it wo n't be valuable information for the admission committee .
I believe that a sandwich thesis ( sometimes called an integrated thesis / stapler thesis ) consists of a collection of published or in-press articles ( some schools also allow submitted articles ) . These articles are included in the thesis verbatim . The publications are usually preceded by an elaborate introduction that sets the context for the thesis . EDIT : As Willie Wong pointed out , there is also usually a final discussion / conclusion after the integrated papers .
I think the most important is : Are you happy with your PhD in general ? It covers a lot of issues , but usually you do n't want to do a PhD in a place where students are unhappy and frustrated . The good thing is that if students feel really bad , they rarely hide it . The next things are related to : General contacts on the line student-advisor ( How much contact and support can you expect , both for research and administrative stuff ? ) . Funding ( Is it a problem or a non-issue , e.g. for attending a conference ? ) . Research ( What the actual research looks like ? What is the toughest part , biggest emphasis on , the most time-consuming part , etc ? ) How much time does it typically take to finish PhD ? Does it happen often that someone drops out ? Other questions will depend of things you consider important . You may expect a lot of autonomy , or a lot of guidance . You may expect a very ambitious programme , or a PhD-life balance . You may like to teach , or you may like to keep it at minimum . You may be eager to travel a lot , or prefer to stay mostly in one place . You may be more into a particular branch of science or methodology , or into another ...
end question
start question
What is an academic sabbatical ?
The definition of sabbatical in Wikipedia refers to labor terminology rather than academic sabbatical leave . As a privilege to employees , they can have temporary unpaid leave ( for any personal reason ) without losing their job . However , academic sabbatical historically is somehow different . When a scholar needs peace of mind to focus on a challenging issue , s/he will visit a new institute to experience a new atmosphere . While still being in the academic environment , not having heavy official duties . There are several motivations for a sabbatical leave ( at least as I have seen ) : A manager finishes an administrative position ( e.g. Dean ) , and wishes to rest in a different atmosphere , but not far from academia . A researcher working on a new idea , prefers to focus on his/her work somewhere with less commitments on everyday responsibilities ( e.g. teaching , advising , etc ) . A researcher is exploring new possibilities and opportunities , spend some time in a new department to live with new colleagues for a while . A researcher is collaborating with another group and spend a year in the host research group as a visiting scientist/professor while being on sabbatical leave from his/her institute . A professor in a mid-level university finds a temporary position in a top university . This is the base for many visiting professors in the US universities , e.g. international professors can experience working in the US universities . Even there are associate/assistant professors who find a post-doc position in the top universities , and use sabbatical leave , not to lose their job at home . In any case , sabbatical allowance mainly depends on the university employment rules .
The <URL> Of , relating to , or characteristic of an educational institution or environment ; concerned with the pursuit of research , education , and scholarship ; scholarly , educational , intellectual . has a focus on education . The <URL> Academic institution is an educational institution dedicated to education and research , which grants academic degrees . also has a focus on education and a requirement to grant academic degrees . To me degree granting is critical to being an academic institution . I do not think of any non-degree granting institute as being academic . Places like the German MPIs and US National Laboratories are cutting edge research institutes , but not academic-institutes . Non-academic research institutions often have a grants office , just like their academic counterparts . Further employees at non-academic institutions that wish to conduct research can often get a research appointment at a local university .
Chaired positions are generally endowed , in that the money provided for the salary , and some other benefits ( e.g. , a dedicated assistant ) or increased research funds comes from the interest on principal donated by the person or people the chair is named after , which is part of the school 's overall endowment ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Being named to a chair is a prestigious award , and in many cases it is a lifetime ( or at least , until retirement ) position . Some chaired positions are given on a rotating basis ( e.g. , for five years ) , but nonetheless it is prestigious to be named to an endowed chair . While it is not strictly true that professors in chaired positions are paid more ( because in most cases pay is negotiable ) , because universities use a combination of pay and incentives such as an endowed chair to lure highly sought-after candidates , the pay is probably on average higher than the average non-chaired full professor would have at the same institution and department . Finally , some schools use chairs at the university level ( versus the departmental or school level ) that they dole out throughout the university . The positions can therefore be used as an enabler for some departments with less money to attract particularly important faculty members that they might not have had an opportunity to attract otherwise . For a specific example of the policy for endowed chairs at one university ( Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ) , see <URL> .
The answer to this question probably depends a lot on whether the " cultural representative " aspect is a primary goal of the fellowship ( e.g. , if it is designed to enable artists and poets to travel ) , or if it is a secondary goal ( e.g. , they want to make sure contact between cultures is a byproduct of what you do ) . If it 's a primary goal , we probably ca n't help , and it 's probably not for you unless your field is the arts ( which I do n't think it is ) . If it 's secondary , however , the big thing is probably to bring your head outside of work and talk about what you 'd want to do with your outside time , interacting with the culture around you . For example , I recently hosted a visiting graduate student through <URL> " Train USA " program . One of the requirements for setting this up was to provide our plan for exposure to American culture , so I talked about some of the local events and places that I wanted to introduce our visitor to outside of work . And that 's just what we did : my visitor was a good , social person , and enjoyed exploring the area , and though the specific selection of events and places ended up being a bit different than the examples I listed , the spirit was the same . If the program that you are applying to is similar , then I would suggest it may be good to take a similar approach . Begin with the plan and assumption that you will be socializing with people outside of your work , and then talk about how others will get exposed to your background and experience through what you would like to do . Food is a nice example , if that 's a thing you enjoy . Some others : do you play music , or enjoy poetry ? Are there festivals and holidays whose celebration you would want to share ? Are you a movie buff , and want to share locally made good or bad cinema ? The list of possibilities is endless , and depends mostly on what it is that makes you a well-rounded person beyond your research . Likewise , for the return home think about what people you know at home are likely to ask , and how you will share it with them . Are you a photographer ? Do you blog ? Are there local elementary schools you volunteer at where the kids would like to hear about traveling ? Will the networking connections you build abroad help others to make similar journeys ? In short : think outside the research box , about the rest of what makes you a good and interesting human being .
Your academic reference should be a teacher you have taken a class from or worked with in another academic capacity like a research assistantship , an academic internship , etc. . For students very early in their careers who have only taken large lecture classes , this can be challenging . Some teachers of large lecture classes have concrete guidelines for when they will recommend students in these classes ( e.g. , I might have a policy of recommending any student who achieves more than a 3.7 / 4.0 ) . You might look at your professors websites or ask them . The professor will likely review your work in the class before writing a letter so you will be wise to pick a professor of a class you did extremely well in . Alternatively , you might be able to ask a post-doc or graduate teaching assistant that you worked with more closely with who is familiar with your academic work . I wrote these letters for undergraduates when I was a graduate student . Graduate student letters would be inappropriate for applying to a graduate program but should be just fine for intra-University programs and placements .
There 's two aspects to that : Licensing and academic ethics . Regarding licensing , you write that you have a license that covers personal and commercial use . Probably commercial use will include academic ( i.e. , professional ) use , but make sure that your license permits you to reuse these elements in a publication . For a poster I do n't think it will be a problem . For a research paper , you typically need to transfer copyright to the publisher , which you ca n't for these elements . So that will need special consideration . Regarding academic ethics , the way to answer this question is to think about the scientific contribution that is being made with these elements . Does the creator of these elements contribute in any way to the scientific content of your publication ? If yes , you should give an attribution , if not , an attribution is not required . It 's not clear to me how much science did go into constructing these elements , but think of the following extreme case : When writing a paper , you obviously use graphic elements , which are the font of the letters , to convey your message . But typically , you do n't attribute the creator of the font , because there 's no contribution to the scientific content . It 's really just the medium you are using to communicate your results , and you do n't need to attribute that .
Typically , academic papers have traditionally provided the lists of works referenced , rather than bibliographies . Primarily , this is a matter of space , as well as recognizing work that has actually been used . Otherwise , it 's too easy to include a bunch of random entries that have nothing to do with the paper in question . ( It 's still possible to do so in a works cited list , but you at least have to make the effort to work it into the paper somehow . ) In general , you should only include both lists if the journal in question allows such behavior . If you are publishing the paper in a venue that does not have such requirements , then you are of course free to include both lists if you choose . ( Although I would not repeat the references list in the bibliography list , again to save space . )
Running a journal with Wiley as a publisher , Wiley 's instructions state JPEG , TIFF and EPS are acceptable formats . Since many authors supply figures in PDF and PNG I started to pass these on to the type-setter and found that no issues erupted . It is therefore clear that publishers may lag behind with their recommendations while type-setters are quicker to adapt to " new " formats . I imagine the lag is possibly a lack of interest to update what works , but can also be because they work with many type-setters and printers and wish to maintain a largest common set of files that they know all can accept rather than having to constantly adapt to individual services ' capabilities . I am fully aware that this thinking is a bit arcane and that any type-setter/printer that can not handle almost everything has very little potential for survival in today 's competitive world . Anyway . I would suggest asking the journal if it is possible to use PNG in your case , or do as many authors have done in " my " journal , send them in anyway . It may , for example , be possible to send in a JPG and a PNG copy of the graphics asking them to use the PNG if possible . As a side point : PNG is in my opinion the best pixel format because of its strong loss-less compression except for photographs , something it was never intended for anyway . Using PNG graphics will keep down the size of final PDFs of the article which is a good goal to have . So in my case , I encourage authors to provide PNG even though Wiley does not .
That is a rather confusing request , actually . However , what I think the job offer is looking for in a " statement of interests " is a description of the research areas you are interested in , while the " statement of research " would be a listing of projects you 'd plan to start if you were hired . However , in many job postings , those two items would potentially be conflated into a single statement . So I 'd recommend that you contact the department . I 'd recommend doing this by phone , if possible -- that way , you do n't have to give as much identifying information .
Largely , it is cultural . So far as I understand it , the idea is that " your record should speak for itself . " Of course , you are selling yourself to a degree , by how you choose to put which pieces forward , whether to choose a " selected " versus a " completist " format , etc. . The range of acceptable variation , however , is much narrower than for a job resume , and the format is built around showing credibility ( in the form of accomplishments ) rather than enthusiasm and fit with business goals ( which is the goal of a resume ) .
If they call you and you answer , be excited and happy and keep the conversation really short . The person who called you does not really want to talk to you , they just want to tell you that you got an interview and possibly to dump some information on you . Your side of the conversation could be : This is so great and I am really excited to come for the interview . I have to run to a meeting/teach ( does n't matter if it is true or not ) can we set up a time to talk in more detail later today or tomorrow ? At that point the person calling will either setup a time or tell you they will email you the information they need to tell you . If they leave a voice mail , you can either call them back or send them an email , unless they tell you to do one or the other . If they email you , you should probably only reply with an email , unless they tell you to call . In the follow up conversation/email there are things you need to know , which search committees often forget about . You should of course express how excited you are to come visit and tell them about your work and learn more about them and their cool work , but you do not need to directly sell yourself at this point ( or really during the interview itself ) . What you do need to do is : Setup a date for the visit . You should tell them when you are available . Alert them to anyone you want to meet during your visit . Find out how travel is paid for and arranged . What the interview consists of and who will be at those events . If they need a title and/or abstract , and if so when , for the job talk . The reason you need to know what the interview consists of is that a campus visit may include one-on-one meetings/interviews , a panel interview , a research seminar on your past work , a teaching demo , and a " chalk " talk on your future work . If they want you to teach an hour lecture of an actual calculus 101 class , you really need to know that beforehand . Alternatively , they might want you to talk through a syllabus of a graduate class you would teach . A 10 minute research talk aimed at the search committee is very different than an hour long seminar with undergraduates present .
Is there any research on the question : how common is academic theft , really ? Such as surveys of people having experienced ( or committed ! ) such theft according to an appropriate definition , possibly compared to peoples perception as to the risks . See the related articles : De Vries , Raymond , Melissa S. Anderson , and Brian C. Martinson . " <URL> " Journal of empirical research on human research ethics : JERHRE 1.1 ( 2006 ) : 43 . and Martinson , Brian C. , Melissa S. Anderson , and Raymond De Vries . " <URL> " Nature 435.7043 ( 2005 ) : 737-738 . Among a sample of 3,247 NIH-funded scientists in the United States , asked about the behavior " Using another 's ideas without permission or giving due credit " : 1.4 % said they themselves have engaged in this behavior within the last three years 45.7 % agreed with the statement , " I have observed or had other direct evidence of this behavior among my professional colleagues including postdoctoral associates , within the last three years . " Please read the article for methodology , limitations , etc. .
A postprint is the final version that is given to the journal for copy editing and typesetting . It includes changes made in the refereeing process , but not the journal 's typesetting . It is often referred to also by the phrase " author 's final version " . In contrast , a preprint most specifically refers to a manuscript as it was before peer review . However , the term preprint is often used more generally ( for instance , when referring to a preprint server ) to refer to any version of the manuscript besides the journal 's final typeset copy . Thus it is common to find postprints on arxiv.org , which is commonly referred to as a preprint server . Postprints are mainly used as a way to provide <URL> . Many publishers allow authors to distribute postprints through their own website , an institutional website , or a preprint server . Many institutions ( e.g. <URL> ) assert a non-exclusive right to distribute postprints written by their employees , regardless of publishing agreements .
Whether a tool works for you or not depends on your work style , so general recommendations are difficult . However , you can use it for example to read digital articles . There are some literature management tools that work well with iOS devices , and you can read any PDF with readers like GoodReader . With the later you can , for example , <URL> . You can also directly access your files if you use , e.g. , Dropbox ( can be helpful in meetings ) . There are also apps available for classroom management , if you do a lot of teaching . You can use it for presentations ( Keynote on iOS is okay ) . It 's nice if you travel to conferences ( for emails and the like ) . In short , there are many uses , but it depends on your work style . Question I 'd have would be how your colleagues use the iPad ( if it 's an department wide thing ) . Also : That 's a nice problem to have . :-)
LinkedIn certainly has some value , as a general professional networking tool . However , that value has been declining for quite a while and rather rapidly more recently due to various factors , mainly inability ( or lack of care/desire ) of LinkedIn 's management to manage the quality of the community , provide consistent user experience , fix issues and improve features , just to name a few . Whether the recent acquisition of LinkedIn by Microsoft will help LinkedIn to remain a major player in the market and improve its dominance or , vice versa , will enable its stagnation and transform it into Microsoft 's technology - and talent-focused support division , remains to be seen ( I make no bets ) . Having said that , the value of LinkedIn from the academic publishing perspective is quite bleak ( which is a nice way to say " close to zero " ) , in my humble opinion . The following are some of the reasons for my such assessment . Quality / scientific rigor . LinkedIn lacks a peer review process , which means that any published piece there should be taken with many more grains of salt than , if such process would be in place ( not that is expected ) . Relevancy . LinkedIn is not very relevant to academia . LinkedIn 's network of people from academic circles tend to be much less comprehensive than academia 's specialized networks due to some of their colleagues , collaborators , etc. using LinkedIn rarely , if ever , or just not having any presence there at all . Therefore , disseminating scientific information , using LinkedIn , is a much less effective option . Nevertheless , if one has important academic contacts on LinkedIn that are missing from the person 's other networks , it might make sense to publish there a brief post ( similar to an abstract ) with a link to a full-text article ( preferably , a DOI link ) . Information persistence . LinkedIn lacks a mechanism of persistent identifiers ( again , not that we can expect that from a general networking platform ) , which implies lack of guarantee that a link to an article published there will not become broken over time ( which jeopardizes scientific information dissemination ) . P.S. . There is no such term , as " job CV " - I understand what you 're trying to say , but IMHO it sounds pretty bad and , thus , I would recommend against using such word combination in any context . HTH
Taking on an undergraduate for a short-term research project is , especially in theoretical and computational fields , essentially an act of service on the part of the professor . By that I mean that usually the professor will put in much more than they get out of it . This is because the student will usually need a significant amount of one-on-one tutoring , or at least time , to understand what needs to be done and learn the tools that will be used to do it . That leaves little time ( in a summer ) for actually producing research results , and since it is likely the student 's first project , progress is likely to be slow . If the professor is at your own university and you have already established a connection and a good impression , then they may be willing to do it based on that . The next best situation is to have a professor who knows you well recommend you to the professor at the other university . But if you 're cold contacting a professor who knows nothing about you , you need to demonstrate that You 're in a good program and have excellent grades ; you have familiarized yourself with some part of their research ( as well as you can with your current level of preparation ) ; You have good communication skills ; and You have some tools that are useful in the indicated field ( e.g. substantial programming experience , experience with particular methods or techniques ) . All this needs to be in a short email ( a long email probably wo n't get read at all ) . Even the above quite often be enough . Of course , if you are exceptional in some way then make sure to highlight that . For instance : You have some published research already You won a major award ( e.g. you placed in the top few worldwide in the IMO ) You did something else that shows you have aptitude for the field and includes a tangible , demonstrable result The last one might be something like " I implemented computational method X in C and used it to solve this interesting problem ; here is the code on Github and the results . "
Have you read those papers ? The first paper says in the intro : The aim of this paper is to raise questions for discussion and debate on academic identity rather than to offer definitive answers or specific conclusions . In particular , the paper addresses the following three questions : 1 . What is academic identity ? 2 . What is it to be an academic in modern times ? 3 . What are the pressures that academics work under ? Then , at the beginning of the section on what is academic identity : Academic identity is a phrase that is discussed in the Higher Education sector as if it is a fixed and known thing . Academic identity lacks precision in terms of description and can not therefore be summed up in a few sentences . This indicates that there is no ( at least agreed-upon ) definition . I did n't read the paper , but it seems that this section indicates what are the key commonalities in various situations of " academic identity . " ( I 've never heard the term myself . )
The NSF 's guidelines are that you can generally pay one faculty-month of salary . In principle , you can propose to divide this money up however you like , but if you try to divide up the compensation among all the faculty members involved , it may not be enough money going to any single person to really be worthwhile . As the PI of an REU site , I do not pay the other faculty supervisors anything . However , my field is not mathematics but physics . The faculty mentors , most of whom work in experiment but some of whom are theorists , would all be on campus doing research even if the REU students were not present . Most of them are getting paid summer salary off other research grants . The only direct faculty compensation goes to me , since I manage all the advertising , admissions , and logistics for the program , which really do amount to about a month of full time work . Some other programs have a PI and co-PI who share the responsibilities and compensation basically equally , but I would suggest not dividing the money up too finely .
It 's important to remember that you 're negotiating a package , not a salary . In other words , there is a set of things you 're negotiating for , and you can play games in that space to get most of what you need . Limiting yourself to salary negotiation is tricky because salaries are often the most constrained part of the package ( especially in public universities in the US ) , and the one the chair/dean has the least power to change . So remember that your success at the job depends on your ability to recruit students , procure resources and bootstrap your research program . Which means you need startup money to pay students , lab space and equipment money as needed , teaching relief if that helps you focus on research , and so on . Throw these all into the mix when you negotiate , so that if you give up something along one dimension , you can try to parlay that into a gain along a different dimension . Also understand who you 're really negotiating with , and what powers they really have to offer you things . This can be found out by talking with your supporters at the department ( you must have some , otherwise you would n't have an offer ) and also folks at other institutions .
Go for all the administrative details . Things you do n't want to ask a potential supervisor , ( e.g. asking about money ) and things not research related ( which a potential supervisor might not know ) . What is the official duration of a PhD ? what is the current average duration of a PhD ? What kind of living allowance/stipend is available ? How does that availability change if you go over time ? What is there exact process for applying ? Does this process change if you have already found a supervisor at the university who wants to take you on board ? How many PhD Students are at the university ? How many apply ? How many students in total ? ( i.e. what is the ratio ) What facilities do PhD student normally get ? is there separate reading areas in the library ? do you have a office ? Shared office ? Expected to use library ? How many supervisors are you required to have ? Some it is 1 , others 2 Some it may be minimum 2 but normally 3 Who is the best person at the university to contact if I have more questions ? Is this the same person I would contact if I were currently enrolled as a student ? Can I have one of those cool free pens/USB sticks/mugs you are giving out ? thanks . And if they ca n't answer , move on , you have better things to do . You can almost certainly get an answer to these via email later .
end question
start question
Will an internship in biology benefit me when my major is not biology ?
I completed undergraduate summer internships in biology although I ultimately wound up applying ( and attending ) graduate school in psychology . Although the internship did not directly align with my current career path , at the time it helped me narrow down my professional interests . In applying for jobs and graduate school , my internships , regardless of discipline , were seen as evidence that I was motivated , organized , and had some experience in professional settings . At the undergraduate level many skills ( including solid record keeping , attention to detail , and proper lab technique ) are transferable across scientific disciplines . Further , completing one internship outside your discipline should n't significantly stunt your ability to prepare for graduate school in chemistry . Having a letter of support from any professor should be acceptable , provided it is a strong letter . In all likelihood , your advisor will know you the best and be able to write the most supportive letter . However , if a life sciences professor knows you well , a second letter or co-written letter might be helpful .
In-major means classes related to your major . In your case , these would be all the Computer Engineering classes you have taken as well as any major requirements from outside the department . These do not include classes required by the school ( e.g. writing requirements ) or high level classes from outside the department that do not related to your major .
Is it normal to submit an abstract to a conference when the research is NOT completed ? Sure . There are plenty of fields where the purpose of a conference is to discuss research that is " still cooking . " In fact , many journal publications can be viewed as interim reports on larger research programs that are still in progress . You might use this opportunity to set a goal for ( roughly ) the piece of your thesis you want to have done by the date of the conference . It 's ok if that piece is relatively small , and nobody at the conference will hold you strictly to what you say in the abstract . In fact , some people submit abstracts on one thing and then talk about something entirely different ... I wo n't advocate that behavior as an intentional strategy , but I will say that many people ( myself included ) prefer a great talk to exacting consistency with the abstract .
I looked at your other questions , which were quite enlightening . Given that you had already publicly revealed other relevant facts about yourself , e.g. <URL> , I do n't know why you did n't include them in your question . Any such details are highly pertinent , and would help people give better and more " customized " answers . To summarize from your previous question , you are 32 , live in Bangladesh , have an IT background , work in a bank , and are afraid your job is taking you nowhere . I 'm Indian , and left India to study in both the UK and the US , at different times . So my background is not so dissimilar , and I can relate to some extent . However , the fact remains that your question is so broad that it is difficult to give useful information without knowing you . Given that you are from Bangladesh , I 'm guessing that part of your interest in further studies abroad is to get away from Bangladesh . Also , there are presumably not that many routes out of Bangladesh besides being a student . If so , I sympathize . However , from your previous question it sounds like you were planning to get a degree locally before going abroad . If so , it sounds like your question might be premature . If you are n't currently associated with a university or already have a relevant higher degree , then going abroad as a student would be very difficult . Are you still planning to enroll in a local Master 's program ? Or have you decided to go for a Master 's degree abroad ? The answer by shane , I think , covers some of the issues you will probably run into as an Asian student in the West . How good or bad a situation you find it depends on a complex set of factors including : Your area of study Your university and location The local community from your area/country . ( Assuming you get on well with people from your background ) How successful you are at your subject What kind of advisor you end up with How much you dislike your native country . If you really dislike it , you may have an easier time adjusting to a foreign culture . If you happen to be from a very " sheltered " background , which is not uncommon in traditional Asian cultures , then living away from your family and culture could be good for you . In many ways the West ( which it seems you are contemplating ) is much more open culturally then a place like Bangladesh . However , how you respond will be up to you . You may find it frightening rather than empowering . In my case , I was from a sheltered background , and had a difficult time . Grad education is a rough business , and study abroad is not for the faint-hearted . However , I can say that I do not regret it at all . It was ( I think ) very good for me . I learned to be much more confident and independent . I am now quite a different person than the person I would have been if I never left India . Having said that , as shane says , grad school is n't the ideal way to go about self-improvement , if you have a choice . Of course , as I have observed above , you may not have a choice .
When a major review has been requested , I think you really do need to go through the whole paper , for exactly the reasons you cite -- the changes you 've requested may conflict with the changes another reviewer has requested , and therefore the authors may have had to exercise significant discretion on which one to formally include in their revisions . Similarly , there may have been other changes that arose from your comments or those of your fellow reviewers . Minor reviews require a lower level of commitment , unless the authors have indicated more substantial changes have been made .
Take undergrad economics . While standard micro - and macroeconomic theory likely does n't change quickly enough to warrant a new textbook edition every few years , students might be ... irritated ... if recent economic events ( the US housing crisis , the Great Stagnation , right now the ruble meltdown ) were not reflected and discussed . Suppose the last example of a major crisis in your econ textbook ( printed in 2004 ) were the dotcom bubble bursting in 2001 - today 's college students were barely walking back then . This would be ancient history for them . Yes , of course a motivated instructor could work with an older textbook and provide the updates based on his own notes . This is a lot of effort , though , and apparently few instructors go to this trouble .
I see no inherent problem with industry funding for Ph.D. , and in many cases it can be a benefit . Certainly in computer science there is a broad spectrum of options for different types of research career ( government , large industry , startups , government ) , and it 's not unusual for people to move between them multiple times over the course of a career . As long as you are publishing well and frequently , you 'll have lots of options .
I believe that career changes and " reinventions " are a regular part of modern careers in highly specialized fields . Very few people will be able to work in a single domain for their entire careers , and the ability to move laterally between " adjacent " fields will be a critical skill enabling one to have greater chances and opportunities for success . Now , that said , your chances of success in any particular job hunt will depend to some extent on how " enlightened " your future boss ( or hiring staff ) are : some will actively seek out anyone with the appropriate skill set and enthusiasm for the work , while others will be more focused on people who have the " direct " skills they need , assuming such people will require less training to be able to carry out their work . Neither of these positions is " better " ; they just happen to coexist .
Yes . When a degree is required prior to starting a program , that degree is needed in order to enrol , but not to apply .
As @Jukka Suomela has indicated in the comments , yes , you will . The relevant policy for IEEE ( from <URL> ) is : 8 . Electronic Preprints . Before submitting an article to an IEEE publication , authors frequently post their manuscripts to their own web site , their employer 's site , or to another server that invites constructive comment from colleagues . Upon submission of an article to IEEE , an author is required to transfer copyright in the article to IEEE , and the author must update any previously posted version of the article with a prominently displayed IEEE copyright notice . Upon publication of an article by the IEEE , the author must replace any previously posted electronic versions of the article with either ( 1 ) the full citation to the IEEE work with a Digital Object Identifier ( DOI ) or link to the article abstract in IEEE Xplore , or ( 2 ) the accepted version only ( not the IEEE-published version ) , including the IEEE copyright notice and full citation , with a link to the final , published article in IEEE Xplore . For ACM , from <URL> : ( b ) Furthermore , notwithstanding the exclusive rights the Owner has granted to ACM pursuant to Paragraph 2 ( a ) , Owner shall have the right to do the following : [ ... ] ( v ) Prior to commencement of the ACM peer review process , post the version of the Work as submitted to ACM ( " Submitted Version " ) to non-peer reviewed servers ... This answer is current as of August , 2014 .
This seems like a strange situation , since it is very counterproductive for both you and your supervisor . If this is indeed common in your group , I am sure several ideas have been scooped by the time they finally get submitted . Unfortunately , I really do n't have any decent idea why your supervisor would act this way . The most important thing to do is to talk to your supervisor and do n't let him/her dismiss the issue . This may seem like an aggressive approach , but you can disguise it as a learning experience , e.g. " Please tell me what is wrong with the current manuscript because I believe it is ready for submission , oh wise one " . Whatever you do , remain polite . A few approaches you can try ( all of which are reasonable , so do n't be shy ) : Send reminders and send them often . Ask what you can do to improve the manuscript . If your supervisor has no further suggestions to change the manuscript , ask where you can submit it to directly . Do n't wait for him/her to wake up . This approach may lead to your supervisor turning it into a ping-pong match , asking you to make trivial but time-consuming extensions again and again . In this case , confront your supervisor and explain your perspective . If you can find an appropriate call for papers , ask permission to send the manuscript there . Calls typically have deadlines and are not necessarily a downgrade in terms of venue quality . This includes conferences and journal special issues . Having a hard deadline might help .
Start immediately , accept as late as possible when you are happy . If another offer comes in while you are negotiating , that 's fine . You can work on negotiating that , too . You may even have to tell the first school that you are negotiating with the second school and vice versa . There 's no point in delaying the negotiations , just the acceptance . Of course , as soon as you accept an offer ( and it 's confirmed ) , you should immediately withdraw all other pending applications .
It depends on the field , and in particular on the venue in which you are publishing . It 's possible that some journals and conferences might have policies about this , which would of course override anything you read here . But in general : nobody checks ( or cares ) whether the name you put on a published paper matches your official name . So if you use an informal variant of your name , e.g. if your name is " Stephen " but you publish as " Steve " , nobody will bat an eyelid . If you use a nickname or publish under a pseudonym , it would be a little odd if the nickname is something that sounds very informal , but still , it probably wo n't cause problems . What people do care about is building a record of your work , and putting a face to the name if they know your face . So you should ( 1 ) be consistent with the name you use to publish , and ( 2 ) make sure other people in the field know that it refers to you .
There are multiple questions that remain unanswered here : Did you meet all of the deadlines for the admissions process ? Did the people who wrote your letters of recommendation send in their references on time ? Did the school promise you a reply-by date ? If so , why did you not contact them at that time ? Did you get an email confirming that the application was complete ? If any of those were missing , then it 's entirely possible that you did n't have a complete application -- in which case , the school is not necessarily required to do anything , because they do n't have a complete record to consider . Moreover , a lawsuit is a horrifically bad idea under the circumstances -- it 's far more time-consuming and expensive than anything you 're going to get back from the school . It 's a waste of your time and money ( unless they rather unlikely made written promises of admission , in which case they may be in bigger legal troubles than just having to return an admission fee ) .
The reason he might be asking to see your thesis is to get familiar with what you did , and to evaluate the quality of your work . If all the application materials ( your CV etc ) have English titles , he might not realize that the thesis is in any other language . So , I would respond to him addressing what he needs , and not what he asked for literally . I would write an extended abstract ( summary ) of your thesis in English . I would send the following , the extended abstract , conference paper , and thesis . He can gain insight into all of your work from the thesis abstract you just wrote . Your conference paper evaluates your writing . And finally your thesis is sent just because maybe he understands the language . Even if he does n't speak the language , the references , figures , tables , formulas etc. in the thesis should give him additional information about the content and quality of your work , especially in the context of your abstract .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
It 's probably inappropriate to say it always " count against you , " but it is fair to say that it will be taken into consideration . For instance , some schools may not admit you officially to the master 's or doctoral program in a field if you are missing classes normally expected of students in a given program ( for instance , if you 're missing analytical chemistry and applying for a chemistry master 's ) . In still other cases , you may be admitted to a program , but with no allowances actually made for the courses missing -- that is , you 'd be expected to pass the graduate-level courses just like everybody else enrolled in the program . On the other hand , if you are missing too many " core " classes , then you will probably find yourself struggling to gain admission , since the admissions committee may ( rightly ? ) feel that you have too much prior work to make up .
It will be much easier for you to learn German to conversational level than all of your co-workers learn English . Even if they are some-what able to talk in English , conversational English is actually pretty tough , whilst German is pretty structured and easy once you know the rules ( and the many exceptions ;) ) More importantly , you moved to Germany . Whilst English is expected of all Scientists , there is probably more of an expectation in your lab that you will , eventually , learn German . Personally , I would tell everyone you are going to German classes on Monday mornings , etc , and that should not only fix this issue , but also give you a positive perception among your co-workers as someone who is a fixer . Also , speaking from experience as someone who did n't take their own advice when doing a PhD in Germany - if you dumb-down your English for non-native ears , you very quickly find yourself not being able to speak English with natives . Whenever i go back home my parents think I have some kind of brain damage ...
I do not generally see people highlighting their name in a CV in this way , and I do not think that it is necessary ( though perhaps the culture in experimental physics is different ) . In a CV , you are by definition an author of every listed paper , and papers where you are first author leap out pretty easily to the eye already -- unless you 've got lots of papers , in which case , why worry about it ? If you highlight your name , on the other hand , I think that it could come across as insecure , since it is not normally done .
I agree with the idea of asking , as suggested by @user6726 . However , as a matter of general office politics I suggest a couple of refinements : If you have an advisor , that is the first person to ask . If not , if there is someone with general administrative responsibility for graduate students , try them . You can always escalate to the department chair later if necessary . Regardless of who you ask first , if you really are blackballed make them bring it up . You have a question along the lines of " I need more TA assignments for graduation , but have not got an assignment the last X cycles . What do I need to do to get an assignment ? " That opens the discussion without accusing anyone of anything . If they tell you that you are never going to get another TA assignment then it is time to escalate to the department chair and your union , if any . In a comment , I asked about talking to professors . Depending on the department 's rules and customs , the professor who is responsible for a course will have some amount of influence over TA selection for the course . Even if you have been deliberately blackballed , asking a professor you do get along with about being a TA for one of that professor 's courses may break the logjam .
end question
start question
Why would a tenure-track job posting ask for an undergraduate transcript ?
I had to submit undergraduate and graduate transcripts to several schools each time I applied for jobs in mathematics . I believe the main reason is simply to allow the school to verify that you really have the credentials you claim . There have been examples where faculty and administrators were caught claiming credentials that they did not possess , so schools are more cautious about such things now . The same is true for background checks - many schools now run a background check before they make an official job offer . At my institution , when we have a mathematics job search we do n't really look at the grades on the transcripts . The cover letter , reference letters , teaching statement , and research statement are scrutinized , but the transcripts just get a cursory glance to make sure the person has the right coursework ( e.g. if we want to hire someone in a specific subfield , we might check that they have coursework in that subfield ) .
Supervisors are employees just like everyone else . They have duties ( to supervise you ) , and they have vacations and business trips . Both vacations and business trips ( conferences , field trips , probably archive work in your line ) will be more common during summer . Specifically for academia , many people will use summer to spend more time working from home while they do n't have to give lectures , but they may designate certain days when they are in the office , specifically to meet with everyone on a single day . That said , I see no reason whatsoever why email contact should decrease during summer , of course except for known vacation or trip periods , where everyone can agree that emails may take a little longer to be answered . Face-to-face contact is also important , but given that many people will spend more time at home , there is a case to be made that you may not meet quite as frequently with your advisor during summer , even after accounting for vacations/trips . Nevertheless , I see no reason why a request for email contact and ( possibly somewhat less frequent ) face-to-face meetings should be unreasonable . It would of course be optimal to work out a schedule before summer , taking vacations etc. into account . " I 'll check in every day with a short email , and I understand if you reply later to email questions . Could we set up at least some face-to-face meetings , perhaps not every week as during the semester , but every other week , except for the week you are at a conference ? " After all , your supervisor will be just as interested in hearing from you and knowing that you do n't spend all of summer at the beach ...
I ca n't speak for disciplines other than philosophy , but some of the points below may translate to other fields . In philosophy I think that there are some departments and some philosophers who would feel that the VAP in math is very impressive , and others who will discount it completely or view it negatively . If your research area is mathematical ( e.g. philosophy of : math , logic , science , or decision theory ) , then teaching in a math department shows that you know math well enough that mathematicians are willing to hire you . That 's good : It 's a sign that you have the technical ability to do work in your area . You could also argue ( in interviews , letters of application , etc. ) that teaching math to undergraduates will help you teach mathematical philosophy to undergraduates . Those people whose research is in mathematical areas of philosophy are likely to be most impressed . But it can be bad , too : Some people on hiring committees will worry that you 're too mathematical . " Is he/she really a philosopher ? Will we be able to understand her/his research ? Have interesting philosophical conversations ? " Philosophy hiring committees often have to go through hundreds of applications . People mean well , but they 're busy , and there 's time pressure , and they sometimes end up making decisions based on trivial features or biases . Your math job can be one of those factors , either a positive one or a negative one . It may be that the math job would be most beneficial with the highest-ranked departments , but most jobs are not in those departments . I 'm not sure about the first point . If you take the math job , I recommend doing as much as you can to show that you 're a " real " philosopher through your publications and conference presentations . You can highlight both the benefits of your math job to a philosophy department , and what you 're also doing that 's purely philosophical . You should highlight these things in your application letters in way that does n't sound at all defensive ( although some people do n't read these letters ) . It might be even more valuable to have one of the people who writes a letter of recommendation -- a philosopher -- to highlight these points . ( Finally , any advice of this kind should be taken with a grain of salt . Or a whole shaker . No one really knows . )
Honestly , my expectations for undergraduate theses are very limited . Any well-written discussion that demonstrates significant understanding of the research area is probably satisfactory . A doctoral dissertation is supposed to demonstrate significant research skill and the ability to perform cutting-edge research . A master 's thesis is supposed to demonstrate the ability to perform some useful research in the subject area . An undergraduate thesis is supposed to demonstrate that a student knows something worth knowing about a topic , and original results are not generally a requirement . In a way , it is good that you are unhappy with your undergraduate honors thesis . That demonstrates that you know what you have actually accomplished and also clearly understand the weaknesses of your work . It may be unfortunate that you have not had enough time to complete all the work you would have liked to complete , but if you continue along an academic career path , you will get ample opportunities to pursue more complete research projects . ( As a personal note , I should add that as I am writing this comment , I really ought to be providing comments on the thesis draft that I received the other day from my own honors college student . This is a really good student , and he has already appeared as an author on a paper in a top journal , based on his work over the past year . On the other hand , his written thesis is lacking in both contextualization and descriptive detail . To bring his work up to the level where I would like it to be would be a significant undertaking , and it is probably not going to get to that level in the limited time we have . To some extent , that leaves me disappointed , but I do not want to lose track of the fact that this is a really first-rate student , and what he has produced -- imperfect as it is -- is quite remarkable for an twenty-one-year-old undergraduate . )
I would not suggest to write an email that does only ask for the status of the application before the announced time of selection is over -- even when the email is totally calm and polite . The program has a schedule , the applicants are supposed to know the schedule . However , you may have some other good reason to write an email . As Thomas commented to another answer : A good reason to ask for the status would be an offer for another opportunity . You could also try to find another good question to ask ( but be sure that it is not already answered in the FAQ or wherever ) . Also , you could provide some new relevant information , if there is any ( e.g. some new grades , completed projects , ... ) .
No , I do n't think it 's rude at all . A sabbatical is not meant as a complete vacation from work . Rather , it 's a time for the professor to focus on scholarly work without the distraction of teaching or ( usually ) administrative duties . I 'd say that asking the professor to comment on your essay is definitely a scholarly activity , and so it 's a reasonable request . Of course , it 's up to the professor whether he actually wants to do it or not , or if he has time to do it given his other activities . Do n't be offended if he declines . Also keep in mind that many professors travel extensively during sabbaticals , or spend the entire time at another institution , so even if he is interested , he may not be able to meet with you in person - you may have to discuss it over email , Skype , etc. .
Here is one more possible reason : the students may be working so much " on the side " that they need more semesters to complete all of the necessary courses . Not at all universities are students supervised thoroughly or progress is checked regularly , so that working part time and studying part time is possible even when not explicitly studying for a part-time degree . It is not difficult to imagine that when working 50 % of your time and studying 50 % of the time , it takes twice as long to complete the course of study . Obviously , it depends on the rules and regulations of the university and/or course of study whether this is a possible explanation . As an example , my undergrad course allowed this , and the average duration of study was 85 % above the normal duration of study , mainly because so many students studied while working . It was a STEM course . I know of on case where the student actually spent 2/3 of the time working and 1/3 of the time studying .
As JeffE says : It does not really matter whether you went somewhere and where did you go ; it matters much more what have you done there . In general , having an Erasmus ( or similar ) semester abroad is not seen much as an advantage . Having a semester abroad accompanied by a publication with a professor there -- that 's a different story , because it shows that you went there and really got some experience there . However , if you spend the semester at a university at which you later apply for studies ( which seems to be your case ) , you can get something from solely being there : the contacts and the knowledge of the environment . For instance : There are many PhD positions funded by various projects rather than by some general scholarships . It 's mostly the project leaders who decide who gets the funding , and knowing them in person etc. can help . Still , you need to do more than just sit there at the lectures for 15 weeks .
Disclaimer : This answer may or may not be different in Japan , due to cultural differences . If my answer disagrees with one with experience in Japanese academia , I 'd go with their answer . It may even be different between different labs and fields . But this is based on my experience and also on what I 've seen since in other labs I 've worked in . I was in Australia on a summer internship and I reached out to an academic at a local university who worked in my field of interest , after reading a few of his papers and checking out his website . I informed him that I was an interested potential PhD applicant who was about to enter their final year of undergrad , and I asked him if he 'd have some time available to chat with me in his lab . I attached my CV to the email and wrote a very brief paragraph with my history ( a few sentences ; do n't give them a huge thing to read ) . He replied immediately , very interested , and we scheduled an appointment for some days later . We ended up talking for a few hours and he took me around the lab , and introduced me to everyone . I was 100 % into doing a PhD with them -- it did n't work out for logistical reasons , but this is unrelated . An undergrad taking the interest and initiative to read papers , check out the research , and reach out to potential PIs is considered a very good thing . It means that you are taking the PhD / Masters as the serious and professional endeavour that it is . Especially when the undertaking involves moving to a foreign country , it implies that you are considering not only whether you are a fit in the lab , but also how living in the country could impact you . It 's always considered a good idea to reach out to your potential advisers in some way , and not everyone does this -- many advisers get blind applications . If you meet them , it gives you both a chance to see if you 'd be a good fit -- academically and personally . Both of these matter . If you do n't get along , working with them could be a nightmare ! And that goes both ways . That means that when the PI is looking at the pile of applications at their desk and designating their interest , they have something to look back on . It 's definitely something that will make you stand out . Enthusiasm is great . Of course , admission is n't decided by the PI themselves much of the time , but by an admissions committee ( not sure about Japan but this is usually the case in NA and EU ) . Especially so when you are applying for a scholarship . But an established relationship with the PI is certainly helpful and it indicates seriousness on your part . Finally : What 's the worst thing that could happen ? If you 're already going to be in the country , the worst thing is that they could say no , and you still get a nice holiday . Just do n't send many follow-up emails if they do n't reply . So personally , I 'd encourage you to reach out to potential PIs and ask , politely , if they might have the time to briefly meet with you to discuss their research and your research interests . But definitely either ask somebody who has been in Japan , or google social norms and etiquette since that is very important everywhere , but especially in Japanese culture .
This is an invitation to discuss your plans for obtaining external funding . They want your answers to questions like the following : What agencies fund research like yours ? What projects do you have that you think would be successful in gaining external funding ? Why do you think you would be successful ? Can you point to similar ( but not too similar ) projects that have been funded ? Why would a funding agency agree your work is worthy of support ? Why would they agree that you are a qualified person to carry out the work , and that your project is likely to actually produce useful results ? How would you convince them ? What supporting evidence would you use ? How large would those grants be likely to be ? How do you know ? When do you propose to begin applying for such grants ? Is there anything specific that needs to happen first ? Do you have collaborators in mind with whom you might co-apply ? Have you discussed this with them ?
Posting a master 's thesis on the arXiv is uncommon , but not unheard of . My feeling is that there 's little point to it : if there 's material worth publishing in your thesis , then you should turn it into papers and post them on the arXiv ( in which case the thesis is unnecessary ) , and if it 's not worth publishing then it 's not worth posting to the arXiv . If you decide to post both the thesis and the papers to the arXiv , you should indicate the relationship between them clearly in the comments so you do n't look like you are inflating your publication record with duplicates , as well as in case you trigger the automated plagiarism detection in the arXiv . One potential issue is coauthors . If anything in your thesis is coauthored with someone else ( either from a previous paper or to appear in a future paper ) , then I do not think you should post the thesis to the arXiv . The problem is that you 'd be pointing readers towards a version that lists you as the only author and relegates your coauthors to a brief note in the text , and you would be increasing the chances that they would cite the thesis rather than the coauthored papers . Instead , it 's best to emphasize the papers by posting them to the arXiv instead .
No , you should probably not contact the Associate Editor . First off , referees do not generally make decisions about accepting or rejecting a paper . Referees make recommendations to associate editors and editors , and they , in turn , make decisions . Thus , the associate editor who was cc ' ed on the email to you is probably the decision-maker who read the reports from the referees and decided to turn down the paper . This person also knows who the referees were , and is in a situation where this input can be appropriately scaled by the referees review history , level of experience , etc. . For what its worth , I consider it bad form when refereeing to make my recommendation known to the author . I give an honest assessment , describe my issues , and then make my recs to the editors in the appropriate fields . ( I also make it my personal policy for manuscripts , at least , to never say anything that I would n't say to the authors face ) There may be check boxes in the reviews that you are n't privy to . Even your reviewer who seemed to recommend acceptance may not have been all that enthusiastic about it , or may not have thought the paper to be very important . You should make use of the feedback you got , which suggested that there was too much similarity with another paper of yours . You should make the paper clearer as to what the new findings are . Take a step back and determine if , given the magnitude of this extension , is this worthy of a full paper , or perhaps the field would be better served by some sort of short report . Then pick the appropriate venue for publication . There are some legitimate cases where you might drop the editor a note . Certainly , if something " very wrong " happened during the review process , but that does n't seem to be the case here . My experience is that this is rare , and most reviews are fine . Your most productive action at this point would be to discuss the reviews with a mentor .
Not exactly an answer , but a couple things to note . Letters on MathJobs expire eventually ; I think you can see the expiration date on the " cover sheet " page . It will be very awkward if it expires partway through the application process . Also , note that your advisor will be able to remove or update the letter at any time , which could be a problem if he is really vindictive - he could replace the letter with something unfavorable . So in short , regardless of how an old letter looks to the committee , it may not be wise to use the letter against your advisor 's wishes .
There are no universal rules regarding employment status and being hired at US universities . In some fields , such as engineering , graduate students may be hired before they have completed any post-graduate professional experience . In contrast , in departments such as physics , it may be required to complete several post-doctoral appointments before being considered for faculty positions . There are some general guidelines , however : In less " applied " STEM ( science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ) fields , more time is generally required in academic positions before earning a full-time faculty position . In more " applied " fields , the time spent is reduced . Unfortunately , in some cases , although industrial experience is often seen as a good thing , it also has a tendency to make it difficult to jump back into a research field -- unless one has been employed in an industrial research capacity . In humanities fields , it 's very difficult of to be able to continue to a faculty position after leaving academia .
Within my U.S. math department , teaching a successful , energetic , research-oriented graduate " topics " course is a plus inside the department . It is also essential , within the department , to have demonstrated " acceptable " capacity to teach bread-and-butter courses , such as ... calculus . The engineering departments that determine the course of the " college of science and engineering " ( due , I imagine , to the size of external grant funding ... and the concommitant " overhead " ) view math , physics , and chemistry fundamentally as " service " departments , and , indeed , the size of these departments is hard to justify on any practical grounds except for the hordes of freshman and sophomores taking filtering/weeding/service courses . In any event , when tenure cases reach the " college " level , demonstrated success in teaching those lower-division courses is considered essential ... research success is taken for granted , and considered of mostly internal interest to the department , not to the college ... and minimal involvement or non-involvement with lower-division teaching can ... upset ... the engineering faculty . So , at that level , it would be unwise to have exclusively done advanced teaching , even if " only " at an undergraduate level . Within the department , it shows a certain kind of energy , I think , because it may well require more psychological effort to do the best job with higher-level material than to do an acceptable job with low-level material aided by a phalanx of teaching assistants . But there seems to be a watershed in preferences about teaching graduate courses , so new faculty preferences in that regard are mostly construed as a matter of taste or opinion , not essential .
My answer is based on an understanding of UK patent law . The UK Patents Act 1977 is based on a " first-to-file " patent system . This means , in part , that an application for a patent may only be validly made if that invention was not part of the state-of-the-art at the time of filing . State-of-the-art includes any information made available to the public as of the priority date of the application , which is usually the date of filing . If confidential information regarding an invention is made available to the public without the consent of the inventor , before a patent for the application is filed for it , then under UK law the inventor may still make an application for a patent without the prior disclosure - the unauthorised release of confidential information - rendering the application invalid for lack of novelty . In this case , if the journal published the confidential information before the inventors/authors authorised the release of the information - presumably before a patent was filed for the subject matter of the paper - then the retraction of the paper may indicate that the journal is acknowledging that they released the information inproperly , i.e. before an agreed embargo date set by the authors . This may add weight to the inventors ' argument that the prior release of the confidential information was made without the consent of the authors and that the authors , as inventors , may still validly apply for a patent . I am not a patent lawyer . This is not patent advice . My comment is written from a UK patent law perspective .
There are several factors at work here : Remember that there are several thousand colleges and universities in the United States . A central database of such jobs would be significantly harder to publicize and organize . Most universities in the US are private . They are under no such compulsion to post their jobs on any particular web site , unless constrained to do so by the funding sources that are supporting a particular position , or legal requirements to do so . ( To my knowledge , there is no such requirement . ) The more deadlines and constraints you build into the cycle , the more pressure you put everyone under -- applicants , recommendation writers , support staff , and departmental faculty involved in the search . So I think there are multiple reasons not to publicize the results of a search , and I think most hiring committees would be reluctant to do so . There could be a better job done of announcing searches , certainly , and that would make things easier ( but again , the places that currently advertise would likely complain about losing their business to a central source ! ) .
In my department , tenure-track hiring and lecturer hiring are done by different committees . When I was associate chair ( until a couple of years ago ) , I was on both committees , but , as far as I can remember , I was the only common member . So if someone applied for both sorts of positions , that fact might not get much ( or any ) attention . Also , you should n't worry about the tenure track committee thinking you have a low opinion of yourself . We generally do n't care very much about your opinion of yourself ( some people are naturally modest ) ; we care about other people 's ( especially experts ' ) opinion of you .
The format used to be the only possibility for including graphics in ( La ) TeX. . Now the more modern alternative is using , which also supports other more common graphic formats natively ( such as pdf ) . Most journals have outdated LaTeX processing pipelines , so they are still using eps . ( And , frankly , they have little incentive to get more modern , since they are in a strong oligopoly position . )
That depends on the graduate school , and the competition . So it is hard to say . However , giving talks is part of the day to day life in academia . So getting practice early wo n't hurt once you are in the graduate school .
end question
start question
Workflow for long-distance collaboration with a dyslexic researcher ?
There are interesting aspects raised by this question , not the least at which end of a distant interaction does the adjustment take place . Should the dyslexic collaborator make adjustments or should the other party make accommodations ? The issue of the influence any legislation is also interesting . If the collaboration arrangement is a formalised one , does any anti-discrimination laws apply at the US end which would require the US party to make adjustments ? Not knowing details of local laws I can not say , but local advice might need to be obtained . Even if it is not a requirement to do anything there may be other imperatives such as the protection of university reputation that could be affected by not being able to enable effective collaborations with disabled students . At the <URL> the location would indicate if their university should be providing resources to enable adjustments . If it was the <URL> ( I know it is not ) the the student 's university would already have an obligation to support adjustments to enable the participation in the collaboration on equal terms . Having discussed who might have to make adjustments , lets looks at possible means of adjustment . The most obvious mechanism is speech to text software , but even the best software has trouble with non-native ( and some native ) accents as well as the technical material often contained in Phd research discussions . Many regular uses of text-to-speech use a special " talking-to-the robot " form of speech to ensure accurate transcription . This leaves two other approaches . The move to a reduced text content or human transcription . Many dyslexic people find lengthy textual prose difficult . Often diagrams or speech are better . A tools that is often recommended are idea capture using brain-ware mapping . An example of such a Tool is <URL> . The research ideas can be captured in diagram form and pasted into a discussion wiki . Using a diagram the dyslexic and non-dyslexic collaborators can communicate on equal terms . If speech transcription seems to have a rôle then , perhaps , junior researchers , such as undergraduate volunteers could be used to transcribe . This could happen at either end depending on availability of labour or funding . For a dyslexic student where funding is available there are software solutions that are very helpful in preparing text . Some tools assist in the conversion of non-linear expression into structured text ( such as Inspiration as already mentioned ) , but there are also writing tools . I find <URL> can be very useful , but others are available . I final thought ; It is often said <URL> and as such there can be linguistic difficulties between the most erudite writers on different continents . Just think how much harder it can be when dyslexia is introduced into the mix . As with both issues dialect or dyslexia , a little tolerance goes a long way .
Aditya 's comment should be the accepted answer : Bitbucket offers <URL> .
Of course , you 'll get there by engaging in a lot of activities where you will meet new people and work with people who will learn to know you . I recommend choosing them according to a few criteria : Activities of a seemingly technical ( or practical ) nature . As a PhD student , you probably do n't want to be on boring committees , board-style meetings , interdepartmental seminars . You will meet people , but not in a way that fosters collaboration . ( However , you may want to attend these events for other purposes . Meeting key people involved in hiring decisions at a given institution is one such purpose that comes to mind . ) Informal settings . This favors meeting new people and getting to know them much better . Favor small meetings over big ones . Aim for a few persons you want to meet . Identify people you would like to approach ( at a big event ) , then check what events they attend . Manage to invite people for talks at your institution . Okay , this one might be a bit difficult for a PhD student in some places , but if you can manage to get someone invited for a day or two , get him to give a talk and discuss your research and his , it will be worth it . Do not shy away from " learning " events : tutorials , " hands-on with XXX library " type of things . All in all , I think the kind of events you want to engage in are : Open source projects : you listed that one already Workshops close to your research topic : these typically involve few people and long discussions . Many of my strongest collaborations ( and a few friendships ) grew out of workshops . Tutorials organized on topics related , but not too close , to your research : you will learn stuff , meet people in a relaxed setting . Do n't be shy of going to workshops where you already know some of the stuff , if only to put it in practice and discuss with the best experts . Also , be ready to present your own work and identify convergences with lecturers and other participants .
Absolutely , with no qualifications , approach the researcher and ask what it would take to do research in his/her lab . As a first-year undergraduate student , it 's very likely that you do n't have the knowledge to contribute to the projects . So approach humbly , asking what you can do to prepare yourself . Ask for suggestions for a review paper or a few research reports that would bring you up to speed . Ask if you can attend lab meetings as a fly-on-the-wall to absorb the controversies and decisions being made day-by-day . The very worst possible case is that you 're told , " no . " If so , you 're already there . Next worst is that you invest your time and get only an education out of it . That 's not so bad . You 'll be positioned very very well for next year . Good luck !
Everything I 've seen suggests that " General John Doe " without any " Dr. " is correct ( you 've never heard of " General Doctor David Petraeus " right ? ) ; for example , military doctors are usually addressed using their rank , not as " Doctor . " In part it just sounds clunky to try to use both titles . Similarly at Virginia Military Academy ( bizarrely , in my opinion ) all of the faculty are officers in the Virginia state militia , and are listed on the website with military titles ( <URL> ) , not with the title " Professor " or " Doctor . " I think " General John Doe , Ph.D. " is more common , though discouraged in some sources I read . I think it 's hard to go wrong just addressing someone in the military by their rank . EDIT : I should probably say that is n't to say that you never combine Doctor with another title : " Herr Professor Doktor " is standard in Germany , ( though I 'm not allowed to call myself that , since I have a doctorate from the US ) and " Reverend Doctor " ( or even " Most/Right Reverend Doctor " ) are established titles , though more common in Britain than the US . Just in the specific context of military titles in the US , it 's not standard to mix them with other titles .
Many universities in the US have policies that prevent students with a 3 year bachelor 's degree from applying for graduate admission . To get into one of those programs you would have to complete at least one more year of study before being admitted to the graduate program .
In the United States there 's no formal pre-nominal title held by individuals holding a Master 's degree that I know of , so it 's very unlike Dr. Xxxx that one holding a Ph.D. , etc. might be addressed . In text , you would address such a person with a post-nominal suffix like M.A. , MBA , etc. . I 'm sure the logic is different among specific types of degree , where Esq. for Esquire is a post-nominal suffix for those in the legal profession in the US . To give you an example , though : If I hold an M.Sc. , you might refer to me as " Kendall , M.Sc . " if you wanted to address me in an email or letter , but I would realistically expect Mr. Kendall or what have you face-to-face . I should also add that courtesy titles like Esq. or Mr. , and academic titles do n't get used at the same time . Kendall , Esq. . M.Sc . would be wrong , as would Mr. Kendall , M.Sc . !
A collaboration is comparable to a business relationship ; both sides need to put significant , continuous effort into making the relationship work , and the benefits are often only realized after some initial time period has passed . Given that mindset , you 'll have to convince the prospective collaborator that : You are a good researcher , Your idea is worth researching , and They will significantly benefit from having your cooperation in implementing this idea . < negative nelly > From my experience , as a graduate student , you will likely find it very difficult to succeed at convincing them of 1 and/or 3 without having the full backing of your advisor . < / negative nelly > All that being said , if you plan on initiating contact via email , simply compose it as you would a communique to a business contact ; write professionally , describe the idea clearly and briefly , and discuss how they should contact you to follow up . You will want to convince them of all three in the email , which may be a difficult task . I would imagine you should follow up via phone or in-person meeting , as you would a business contact .
The question , although reasonable , seems hard to answer in general terms . Programmatic change is generally not done by individual faculty members in a department , but by groups and/or committees of them , in confluence with the department Chair/Head . Many programmatic changes do not " go through " the Dean -- in particular " day to day " business usually does not -- but those involving nontrivial financial changes usually do . For all but the smallest colleges it is rare for individual faculty members other than the Head to have substantive conversations with the Dean about such things : again , it would be better if they went through the department as a whole and/or the Head . When it comes to financial outlays that must be approved by the Dean : I 've seen plenty of instances where the Dean approves but " just does n't have the money , " so I would have to think that even mild disapproval of the initiative would sink it pretty thoroughly . Perhaps the most useful thing I can say is : look at where the program is now and look at where it was in the recent past . If you are really unhappy with the current position or the perceived trajectory of the department , then you should not count on being happy with it in the future ( no matter who the Dean is ) . Conversely , if those look reasonably good to you , talk with the faculty and see how they feel about the future . If there 's some important change coming around the bend , I hope they will let you know . But it is more likely that being in the department for the next ten years or so will be roughly like having been in the department for the last ten years or so . The Dean does not reside in the department , so unless s/he is actively at war with the members and interests of the department , some disagreement in the overall vision need not affect the actual working life of a professor in the department unduly . By the way , the bit about the Dean " may leave in the next 5 years " sounds way too vague to take seriously . Maybe s/he will and maybe s/he wo n't . If s/he does , maybe the next Dean will be better or maybe worse . It is very hard to plan for the future with regard to this kind of thing : honestly , I probably would n't even try .
Describe those works in the third person but do not anonymise the references . For example , " Doe et al in their work show that ... " Even if you are Doe . Very often I review papers ( in CS/HCI ) whose authors have blanked their past work that they reference . This makes it very hard to judge the quality of the new contribution if compared to the previous work , and it is bad practice in my opinion . The side effect is that it is conceivable that they could guess who you are , but it is less of a problem than not being able to judge the quality of the contribution , IMHO . If the venue allows it , after acceptance you can change your " Doe et al " with " In our previous work . . "
There are interesting aspects raised by this question , not the least at which end of a distant interaction does the adjustment take place . Should the dyslexic collaborator make adjustments or should the other party make accommodations ? The issue of the influence any legislation is also interesting . If the collaboration arrangement is a formalised one , does any anti-discrimination laws apply at the US end which would require the US party to make adjustments ? Not knowing details of local laws I can not say , but local advice might need to be obtained . Even if it is not a requirement to do anything there may be other imperatives such as the protection of university reputation that could be affected by not being able to enable effective collaborations with disabled students . At the <URL> the location would indicate if their university should be providing resources to enable adjustments . If it was the <URL> ( I know it is not ) the the student 's university would already have an obligation to support adjustments to enable the participation in the collaboration on equal terms . Having discussed who might have to make adjustments , lets looks at possible means of adjustment . The most obvious mechanism is speech to text software , but even the best software has trouble with non-native ( and some native ) accents as well as the technical material often contained in Phd research discussions . Many regular uses of text-to-speech use a special " talking-to-the robot " form of speech to ensure accurate transcription . This leaves two other approaches . The move to a reduced text content or human transcription . Many dyslexic people find lengthy textual prose difficult . Often diagrams or speech are better . A tools that is often recommended are idea capture using brain-ware mapping . An example of such a Tool is <URL> . The research ideas can be captured in diagram form and pasted into a discussion wiki . Using a diagram the dyslexic and non-dyslexic collaborators can communicate on equal terms . If speech transcription seems to have a rôle then , perhaps , junior researchers , such as undergraduate volunteers could be used to transcribe . This could happen at either end depending on availability of labour or funding . For a dyslexic student where funding is available there are software solutions that are very helpful in preparing text . Some tools assist in the conversion of non-linear expression into structured text ( such as Inspiration as already mentioned ) , but there are also writing tools . I find <URL> can be very useful , but others are available . I final thought ; It is often said <URL> and as such there can be linguistic difficulties between the most erudite writers on different continents . Just think how much harder it can be when dyslexia is introduced into the mix . As with both issues dialect or dyslexia , a little tolerance goes a long way .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all have thriving basic research labs that regularly hire PhDs in theoretical computer science , and whose members regularly publish in theoretical computer science conferences and journals . Yes , research at those labs is colored by the needs of their parent companies , but not as much as you might think . All four companies ( and several others ) have thriving internship programs . As with any other research job , your best bet in finding opportunities is to talk personally with people at the labs . Go to FOCS/STOC/SODA , sit at the same lunch table as David Johnson or Muthu or Ken Clarkson or Yuval Peres , and just talk to them . ( It obviously helps if you have some research results that they care about . ) Ask your advisor to introduce you if you do n't feel comfortable just introducing yourself . ( I 'm about to get some angry emails from David , Muthu , Ken , and Yuval , are n't I ? )
In the UK many universities require new members of academic staff to obtain a PGCHE . The universities that I am familiar with offer the PGCHE curriculum in house via the School of Education . Since it is presented to new staff as a hoop to jump through , I know of no one outside of university administrators and schools of education that think the PGCHE , in any form , seriously . Further , I have seen many job adverts where a PGCHE is a " desirable " qualification , but never one where it is " essential " . During hiring , we briefly consider the presence/absence of a PGCHE , but never more than that .
<URL> , <URL> , <URL> and other indexing services have their own ways how the papers get into their database . For Scopus , the journal has to be registered there , and then actively send the data . It 's similar for Web of Knowledge I think . Google gets the data from who-knows-where and I doubt you can control it efficiently . In general , it takes couple weeks to several months . As dgraziotin pointed out in comments , Google Scholar indexes citations from <URL> quite quickly , in couple days . However , by many people and many institutions , arXiv papers are not considered at all regarding citations , unless they are published properly elsewhere and properly Journal-ref ' ed ; even then , many people do n't trust that the arXiv version is correct , because nobody makes any check of this ( I mean , you can put whatever Journal-ref to whatever your arXiv paper , so it 's not trusted ) .
This sort of thing only evolves as the product of your exhaustive reading , and discussions with your supervisors and peers . After that , at some point , your supervisor will say something like : " before you can really get into your research , just resolve this little thing - it should be fairly trivial . " That 's your thesis , right there .
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
The answer to your question depends on context . I find three key elements to the decision of whether or not to declare conflict of interest : Formal rules : some venues have an explicit conflict of interest policy ; if so , abide by it . Size of reviewer pool : sometimes , you have an extremely specialized subject , in which the number of people qualified to review a paper at all are quite small . In such a case , one should generally be more permissive . Formality of venue : conflict of interest for a journal or top conference is generally more strict than for less formal venues like workshops , especially for ones intended to discuss early-stage work where all you 're really looking for is a sanity check . Now , to address some specifics : I generally hold that it 's a bad idea to review one 's current or recent collaborators except in the most informal of venues . Co-authors is often the same as one 's collaborators , but not always -- one might be collaborating but not yet be published together , or might be a very distant co-author ( for example , I 'm not going to worry about conflict of interest with most of the co-authors on my 600 + author paper ) . I also do n't generally count co-organization as collaboration , since that 's often a fairly narrow relationship . Being at the same institution ( currently or in the recent past ) may or may not be a conflict depending on how close the organization is : in some places different departments might as well be different institutions ; in others , it 's one tight family . Being funded by an organization is almost certainly a conflict of interest .
Having only a MSc ( and not doing a PhD ) it might be hard to get an official research funding ( although , there are many different programs and maybe there is one for someone with your status ; especially if in some way you are still affiliated with an university of institute ) . Sadly , ( as Paul Hiemstra pointed out ) there no such thing as a scientific freelancer . Science market is very far from an unregulated , free market ( and the supply is higher than demands , so it is not a place for freelancer jobs ) . However , there are two options which may make sense to you : doing a part-time PhD , or some PhD where you are not expected to be at the univ. all the time ; effectively , it may work for you ( though , then it will need to be rather at a low-rank univ. ; most likely the most important thing is to find a univ. with no to low teaching load + an advisor who does not care ( sic ! ) or one who understands your situation and is willing to participate in such relationship ) , considering crowdfunding - i.e. describing you project on a website and gathering from all interested people ( like on <URL> ) ; here is <URL> ( then it is not from government ) .
This is a tough question , and you have my sympathies . A sabbatical is time off from on-campus responsibilities given to enhance your long term scholarly life . It varies in its implementation from place to place ( and in fact they do not exist at my institution ) , but most commonly you propose travel and research plans . Alcoholism and mental health issues are two kinds of recognized medical problems . It is my understanding that you do not take a sabbatical because of medical problems ; rather you go on medical leave of one kind or another . Trying to hide medical problems under cover of a sabbatical sounds , at the least , to be very risky , and you seem to recognize that this is not practical in your case . So I would recommend that you look into going on medical leave instead of sabbatical . Treatment of either of your medical issues will probably involve a psychiatric / counseling component . I am not a psychiatrist or a counselor ( rather , I am a mathematician : really not close ! ) , but I would humbly and tentatively suggest that even before you go on medical leave you seek some counseling . In particular you mention the embarrassment of being sick in the way that you are . I think it is completely normal and understandable for you to feel embarrassed / ashamed about these problems , but those kinds of feelings could lead you down very unproductive paths , so I suggest that you concentrate some of your earliest counseling sessions on dealing with that . In particular , a counselor probably has very helpful things to tell you about disclosing your problems to others : whether , when , how much , and to whom . As far as I know , it should be possible for you to get the same medical leave and considerations as someone with less socially stigmatized medical problems without having to disclose the details of your medical issues to anyone in your department , unless you want to . I wish you all the best . I hope you do take medical leave and get knowledgeable , helpful care .
It depends on the program , but if no requirement is set , I would go for about 500 words . That 's about two pages double-spaced . You want to be to the point in these essays . Too much rambling may turn the reader off . I never turn anything in single-space . Double-spaced documents help for readability . It 's up to you , but I suggest double-spacing .
end question
start question
Is it right to submit a conference abstract knowing that I will not attend but my advisor will give my talk instead ?
I think it can be acceptable if and only if it is clearly communicated in the submission that the former supervisor is the intended presenter . Deliberately misrepresenting who will present at the conference is dishonest . If in doubt , contact someone at the conference .
It would seem that you should contact the organizing committee of the conference and get their advice . To me it seems kind of low to write papers that have very similar content but it does happen . If you are questioning it that much I would bring it up with the Organizing Committee and see what they say . You do n't even have to mention names or specifics but just get their general opinion .
First of , you are absolutely asking the right question ( " what can I do to make a good relationship ? " ) . The answer depends a bit on the preferences of your advisor - what works for some may not work for others . Here are a few things you could think about : You say you work from home . This automatically decouples you from the lab and your advisor . Have you thought whether it would be possible to work in the lab ( if they have room for you ) for , for instance , two days a week ? This would also help make sure that you stay on the track your advisor wants your research to go , see also Nicholas ' answer . You say you work mainly with some of his PhD students . Try to bond and network with the PhD students you like , and impress them with your technical aptitude and motivation . Thinking back on my PhD advisor , the only master students he really remembered were the ones that his PhD students were constantly praising in their meetings with him . See if there is a chance to publish something ( with your advisor ) in the context of your master 's thesis . This not only shows motivation , but also has an immediate benefit for your advisor . During paper writing , you will also automatically have a number of meetings with your advisor . If you are interested in doing a PhD , indicate this to your advisor and ask for feedback . I have the impression that many professors take significantly more interest in master students that want to stay on the academic path than in those that are about to leave to industry .
Confession : I 've tried this myself TWICE in the field of mathematics , so what I say comes from my own experience . You need not worry about the existence of a caste-system among graduate students . You will not be treated any differently than any other student if you are accepted into a program and not funded . The main question is whether or not you will get into the program in the first place if you have no external funding sources ... In science-related graduate schools , it is quite often the case that students will not be accepted into the program unless they have some sort of support ( i.e. department assistantship , scholarship/fellowship , etc. . . ) . Students who try to do it all on their own often find themselves under even more pressure than a funded student . On top of trying to pass extremely difficult courses and pursue original , cutting edge research , they may find themselves also working multiple unrelated jobs that barely make ends meet for rent , much less tuition and all other debts incurred along the way . Often , unfunded students succumbs to financial pressures and drop out to pursue more financially stable opportunities . Students dropping out of graduate programs also make their host departments ' statistics look bad in the eyes of their superiors ( i.e. deans , university president , provosts , etc. . ) and can lead to diminished support for those graduate programs . Since universities do n't want to hurt their own reputations ( or lose state/donated funding ) , they tend to be selective of their graduate students . And I believe this is a major reason why self-funded students are often not even allowed in graduate programs : statistically speaking , their success rate is likely too low to merit taking a chance . Of course there are exceptions ( e.g. having wealthy parents , pursuing non-science graduate programs , education doctorate degrees often earned by people who work full time as teachers ) , but it is certainly a red flag if a student willingly tries to pursue a graduate degree in the sciences without any source of funding . My advice to you : If you 're offered funding , take it ! . If you are accepted into a graduate program and are not offered funding and do n't have any other source of funding apart from yourself , then do n't try to do it all on your own . The sheer cost of graduate school , combined with the uncertainty of you graduating from the program , along with the nightmare of trying to pay off student loan debt for the rest of your life ( even bankruptcy will not save you from student loan debt ) ; it 's just not worth it to you .
It is nice to do so ( especially if you mention their support in the acknowledgement - which may even be the only things they 'll read ) , but it is far from required .
I will talk about publishing as an undergraduate in a general sense . This may change depending on your field of study , where and how the work is published ( journal , conference , workshop , etc ) and what your level of contribution to the end product will be . Let 's start with the easy question . " Is this good for my career ? " I do n't know of many fields where having published work , perhaps especially as an undergraduate , is a detriment . As an undergraduate with two publications as first name ( in my field the student/person who contributed the most / drove the ground level work is first name , the professor is last name and the names in the middle can range from " was vital to the success of the paper " to " they pushed a button a couple of times " ) and several acknowledgements having those papers gave me a definite leg up against my peers when it came time to search for jobs . Having publications under your name can be invaluable if you choose to apply to grad school but companies are often very interested to see what high-level , field-acknowledged work you have completed . It definitely makes you stand out in a crowd . It may seem like nothing but puppies and rainbows but there 's a darker side as well . Academic publishing is a lot of work . Depending on your level of contribution this can mean weeks of brutal work rerunning experiments , tweaking inputs/outputs , editing and documenting . Most of the people I know , their first paper was a brutal experience because Academic writing is unlike any other writing you have done and there can be a steep learning curve in both the technique and the tools . So , unless you have a burning desire for a publication for publication 's sake , the deciding factors for you should be : What is my expected contribution ? How and where will I be credited ? What are my obligations if the publication is accepted ? Let 's break these down . What is my expected contribution ? In my field a couple of professors coming up to you after the fact and saying " We are looking to get this published " is a bit weird . I 'm assuming that these professors were in some way involved in the work as mentors or that this an extension of their work . It is unlikely that this work is fit to be published in its current state . That 's not meant as a slam towards your work , rather it 's a response to the specifics of publication . Academic publication is often fairly stringent in style and method . It is likely that parts of your work will need to be tweaked or polished for publication ( this really depends on your field to be honest ) and , in some cases , completely redone . It is very important for you to demand , in a nice way of course , a roadmap for what needs to be done to get this work published and what you will be expected to do . At that time you should also try to find out how much of the final publication will be your work vs work from others/the group at large . If you have graduated and are starting a new job or heading off to grad school you may have other demands on your time . Writing an academic publication , especially your first academic publication , can be a serious time sink . This will play into the next part ... How and where will I be credited ? Is your work going to be placed , whole cloth , into a template and submitted ? Then you should expect to be first author ( or your field 's equivalent ) and be given an appropriately large share of the credit . Is your work going to be used as a subsubsection , comprising all of 2 lines in the final publication ? Then the credit to you should be , appropriately , smaller . But that 's simplifying things a bit - author order and credit/acknowledgements should be explicitly discussed early in the process . Get it out on the table and nail it down because differences in expectations can definitely damage professional relationships which , to be honest , is probably the most valuable thing you will get out of this . Things like original contribution level , publication writing/editing contribution level , and time/effort commitment to the project should be taken into consideration . Additionally consider your future plans - are you planning on publishing again ? Are you looking at going to grad school ? Depending on the answers to these questions you may find that the most valuable things you get out of publishing are the experience of publishing and the strong network connections you forge with your coauthors . What are my obligations if the publication is accepted ? This is the final piece of the puzzle . If your publication is a conference or workshop piece then someone will have to present at the conference/workshop . It should , ideally , be one of the primary contributors . If that person is you , will you be able to attend ? Who will pay for travel and fees ? Even beyond traveling for conferences/workshops - Who will pay for submission fees ? Recently one of my papers was 3 pages over the limit ( the conference accepted longer papers at a fee for each additional page up to 5 additional pages ) . This cos
Literature on virtual ethnography or netnography is not restricted only to these authors . A cursory Google Scholar <URL> reveals many other authors . Having said this , ~ 50 % of my methodological approach in my work is through grounded theory by using semi-structured interviews . The gold standard for grounded theory is : ... and I would wager that ~ 95 % of papers using grounded theory cite only them in the methods sections of their papers . This does not necessarily make your methods poorer or stronger . You should make sure that you understand the methodological process perfectly and then implement it . Make sure that you do talk about credibility , transferability , dependability and confirmability as well !
I estimate that I need to send about 400 USD a month to my parents . Will I be able to afford it ? I live on a graduate TAship that pays slightly more than 20K per year . I can put away about 200 USD every month . I live in a fairly expensive city , eat out once or twice a week , but do n't have a car . Exactly how much you will be able to send home will depend on your lifestyle and where in the US you live . New York ? You 'll probably have very little left over . Middle of nowhere , out on the coutry ? 400 USD is reasonable . Am I correct in assuming that the typical USA stipend would be about 20K a year ? Depends on your subject area and school . Some have more funding for grad students , others have less . Your advisor may also be able to supplement your salary from his grants if he 's well-funded . ( Bur yes , somewhere between 18 and 25K are the most common figures ) . Will I be violating any terms of employment of the university , if I take up part-time employment during my Ph.D. ? What is the typical nature of part-time jobs one may find ? Is it worth it ? Typically , you will have a TA-ship which will count as your part time job . Most schools require you to get special permission to have additional jobs , and these permits are very hard to obtain . In addition , a PhD is hard . You wo n't have time for much more work outside . Is one eligible to seek part-time employment under F1-visa ( I am assuming that is the typical student visa ) ? If not , what are the other options ? Are the other visas significantly harder to obtain ? You can only work for up to 20 hours a week during term-time on an F1-visa . These 20 hours have to be on campus , and typically your department will report your TA hours as your work hours . This effectively prevents you from working extra during the semesters . During holidays you can work for at most 40 hours a week , on or off campus . As a student , you need to be there as either an F1-student , or with permanent residence . Permanent residence is orders of magnitude harder to obtain ( pretty much impossible ) . Are graduate school stipends taxable in the USA ? Depends on the state , and if all of it is payed out as a scholarship , or if some is payed out as a salary .
How should you talk about the weakness ? Honestly . This does n't mean you need to dwell on it or undermine all the rest of this talk around your point . But if you know about a serious weakness , you should n't be afraid to acknowledge it when necessary . Yes , your work will appear less awesome as a result . But which of these two scenarios would you rather have ? You show the work you did , acknowledge the weakness , and discuss how you think it would be best to improve the work in the future in order to achieve the overall goals . You have n't solved the problem , but you 've taken a useful step . You claim your work has no weaknesses , and when people inevitably notice , they think that you are either too foolish to notice the weakness or too insecure and self-important to acknowledge it . Your paper was accepted , despite the reviewers pointing out the weakness , and that means people must find something of value in it . Focus on the value that is still there despite the weakness , and let that be the point on which you build .
If you have no luck , you can always fall back on <URL> [ <URL> ] Many papers there look distinctly dubious at the very least , or trivial , as one would expect from an unmoderated repository . But I 'm sure some are sound and worthwhile . Although perhaps not ideal , one advantage is that at least you 'll have evidence of when your paper was submitted , in the event of priority disputes . Also , it is handy to give a standard ( ish ) URL for references . The guy who founded ViXra and runs it , Phil Gibbs , is a physics graduate himself , and as clever as a tree full of owls . But there 's no getting away from the fact that in academia ViXra is generally treated with a fair degree of contempt .
If you think your advisor made an error , then I would suggest you figure out how to prove he made an error . This is the first step to showing someone they 've made an error without being ignorant or arrogant ( the rest follows from general customs about politeness , but you absolutely must do this first bit . He supposes , presumably in good faith , that he proved something to you ; the " burden of proof " that he 's wrong now lies in your hands ) . Besides , this is a good exercise . Lots of things do n't seem like they make sense until you yourself figure out how to make them make sense to you . This can be a lot of work . This act of " hacking " someone else 's grand idea until it makes sense to me is how I spend most of my time . Thankfully this often leads to totally new ideas and directions that the first guy did n't see ( or thought too trivial or obviously wrong to mention , yes that happens too ... ) The problem is that , in very many fields , undergraduates are actually extremely frustrating to work with . They do n't yet speak the language , or have the baseline knowledge that all of your colleagues share . But nonetheless , this person is not the ideal advisor if he lacks the patience to put up with a lot of questions -- this is absolutely normal behavior for an undergraduate advisee , totally to be expected and many advisors find the interactions quite rewarding ! On the other hand though , you have some hard questions to ask yourself . Basically , you say that you want to ask questions without sounding lazy , but you must be honest with yourself about whether or not you are in fact asking lazy questions . The research process ( again , at least in fields I 'm familiar with ) is most emphatically not " do exactly what some famous guy told you to do . " It generally involves painfully slogging through material that no one really understands and proving everything you think you know to yourself repeatedly , and then to others , and then occasionally having it pointed out that you made a really silly assumption , or that some obscure paper already solved everything you had set out for . Again , the point is to create new knowledge , and so you have to know your tools inside and out . In fact , if your advisor is explaining anything at all clearly and to your satisfaction , what he is explaining is , by definition , old knowledge .
ResearchGate does not support this feature , and has no current plans to do so . The only way to attach information to publications that ResearchGate must be added manually ( because ResearchGate fails to find them ) is to add that information manually for each publication as well .
Most journals require that the submitted manuscript has not been submitted total or partially to any other journal . Of course different policies apply to open access journals . If I were you I would check the journal 's policy regarding this issue and contact the editors if necessary to get their opinion ( probably they will require details on what will be duplicated ) . To the very least discuss this with your supervisor . You can find yourself in a very unpleasant position if you are not careful ( not to mention having your papers rejected ) , as indicated by @Enthusiastic Student
That depends on the graduate school , and the competition . So it is hard to say . However , giving talks is part of the day to day life in academia . So getting practice early wo n't hurt once you are in the graduate school .
Yes . Talk to your advisor . It is really important you learn to , in a good way , think of yourself . Right now , the undergraduates are happy ( they get help ) but your work is suffering . I can imagine that helping undergraduates is part of your job description , but not to the point you can not work anymore yourself . You need to sit down with your professor and your supervisor and discuss that your undergraduate workload is too much . Best is to have a proposal ready yourself , e.g. that you want to spend a day a week helping undergraduates and that that is the limit . Once you get both your professor and your supervisor to agree , no undergraduate can manipulate you into helping him/her . In addition , everyone is clear on their expectations , this is the professional way of dealing with this in my opinion . If you do not set boundaries , you will be the only one suffering . The professor and supervisor will feel somewhat bad , but the undergraduates will find a new person to stalk , while you are left without a PhD .
It appears that in the UK , they must state on the application form that they are exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 , if they are ; if they are exempt , you have to declare the conviction , and otherwise you do n't . The probability that a PhD position would be exempt is low . <URL> provides extensive discussion of " spent " convictions under Irish law , indicating that if asked , you must tell ( Ireland appears to be the only member of the EU without some analog of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act ) .
I do n't think the arxiv is the right place to upload unfinished work , no matter what you hope to gain from it . It would be worth reading <URL> as well as talking to others and seeing what is done in practice in your field . My own understanding is that the arxiv is an " e-print server " , i.e. , an electronic preprint server . A preprint is a completed paper which has not yet been published . ( Though one can still upload published papers to the arxiv in many cases ... ) It is only fair to mention that a small but non-negligible percentage of arxiv papers are not intended for submission to journals in their current forms . For instance , I currently have 27 arxiv papers ; a few of them have not been submitted yet , and one of them is not intended for journal submission in its current form . I was asked to upload it to the arxiv because a colleague of mine wanted to cite it in his accepted journal article and the journal had asked for something a little more formal and stable than my own homepage . In retrospect , I think this was a good idea on their part . But all of my arxiv submissions are " complete " . Concerning incomplete submissions , here is a sentence from the webpage linked to above : Please note that we do not accept submissions with omitted figures , tables or sections . We also do not accept " abstract only " submissions . Such submissions are unhelpful to readers and of very limited archival value . Based on what you describe , I am concerned that your putative arxiv submission would violate either the letter or the spirit of this requirement . You certainly do not want to submit to the arxiv in this case , because the arxiv is moderated , and low quality submissions can cause you to lose future privileges ( as well as giving you a very poor reputation with at least the arxiv moderators , who presumably have some stature and influence in the academic community ) . On the other hand , in many cases whether a paper is " unfinished " is known only to the author , and it would probably be possible for you to prepare a version of your paper which meets the above requirements . In my opinion , as an undergraduate you should not upload ( or widely distribute in any e-forum ) work that you know to be seriously incomplete . Work that you upload to the arxiv stays there forever . ( Truly : even if you withdraw a paper , the record of it remains and people can still access all the earlier versions . I do n't know about anyone else , but when I see a withdrawn paper it makes me curious and thus more likely to look at earlier versions . ) Outsiders are not going to judge your work by undergraduate standards ; in many cases they will not know that the work was written by an undergraduate . They 'll look at a paper that has the level of an incomplete undergraduate project : that is not making a good name for yourself . If you want to include your unfinished manuscript in your application , that 's a different story : definitely do so if you spent a lot of time on the work and are proud of it . ( Even mature academics list unfinished manuscripts on their CV and sometimes even post them on their webpage . I do this , although less often as time goes on . ) I may as well say the obvious thing though : it would be better if you finished it . Could n't a hard-nosed faculty evaluator say that if you were really passionate , serious and competent , then you would have finished your project ? As above , having the submitted version be formally complete as a document though you yourself know that you 'd like to do more with it seems like a good idea .
Academia is s sort of pyramid scheme . The number of people interested in positions at the next level up greatly exceeds the number of vacancies . This is not a secret so an applicant who wants to go into industry should not be disadvantaged . That said , whether you will be allowed to commercialize the results of your PhD research will depend on the University and group / department policies as well as the source of your funding and any conditions attached to that .
As many have pointed out in the comments ( Nate Eldredge , Dan Romik , Per Alexandersson , etc. ) , the point is not to catch you cheating ( as if you were intentionally trying to manipulate your results ) , but rather to verify your process of obtaining such results . We all should be so lucky as to have an adviser take the time out of his/her schedule to verify our processes . I would also like to add that -- and this assumes your thesis could/will lead to an academic publication at a journal or conference -- that your adviser 's reputation is potentially on the line by attaching his/her name to such a document . In other words , by becoming a co-author on your [ future ] publication , your adviser is essentially saying , " Yes , I helped work on this , and I am sure of the methods and the results contained within . " The bottom line ( tl ; dr ) is that you should n't take this as a personal attack . You should be thankful to have someone who can invest the amount of time necessary to ensure the correctness of the work you 've done .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
end question
start question
Should non-native speakers get extra time to compose exam answers ?
Disability conditions are applicable when there is an uncontrollable disadvantage that prevents the person fairly demonstrating their knowledge , skill and ability in the same timeframe . This is not the case for a person who has and takes the option of moving to a country or region where their language proficiency is not sufficient to demonstrate knowledge or skill . Such a person has the choice of developing their language skills to sufficiency or of simply studying at a university where the common language is one they are fluent in . They control the situation and therefore , it is their obligation to resolve it , not the assessor 's duty . Where these two groups intersect is a case rare enough that it should be handled on its own merits according to any applicable policy and law ( which most likely will mean the extra time is given to account for the disability ) .
Managing references can be a tedious task , especially at the proof-reading step of a paper and the usage of software that keeps track of your paper/references library ( e.g. EndNote or BiBDesk ) can be strongly recommended . With such software you can have all your references in your paper formated accordingly and automatically to the style that either you choose or the conference/journal wants . In MS Word there is an option where you can integrate EndNote , insert references and have an automated formating and arrangement/re-arrangement . Integration is done automatically for EndNote and MS Word , just when you install both of software . ACM style quide can be found <URL> .
The quotation is really more for fun than for substance , so you 've got a lot of leeway , and even more so because this is in a Ph.D. thesis . So really , it 's up to you whether you translate it at all . That said , I would suggest approaching it based on the degree to which you like the prosody and meter of the quotation . If the sound of the words themselves is a significant part of what makes you enjoy the quote , then by all means keep it in the original language , where it will be well appreciated by some readers and challenge the rest . If the substance is more important than the sound , then it may be better to translate . For example , I do n't know much of German quotations , but if I were using a French quotation , then I would not translate " Ceci n'est pas une pipe , " but I would definitely translate " Les grandes personnes ne comprennent jamais rien toutes seules , et c'est fatigant , pour les enfants , de toujours et toujours leur donner des explications . "
It depends on what you mean . If you are asking a theoretical question about whether there are rules that forbid it , then the answer is that it is theoretically possible , at least at some universities . For example , <URL> was a tenured professor of mathematics at Harvard from 1953 through his retirement in 1992 , without ever having attended graduate school . ( Technically , Harvard awarded him an honorary master 's degree when he became a faculty member , but he had no master 's degree when he was hired and never received a Ph.D. ) The rules vary between universities , but I do not believe Harvard 's have changed since Gleason was there . For another example , if you <URL> , you can become a professor with no master 's degree . On the other hand , it is impossible in practice . Unless you have received some sort of major academic recognition ( a big prize , universities specifically soliciting an application from you despite knowing you have no master 's degree , etc. ) , it 's not even worth thinking about , since the chances of being hired are almost indistinguishable from zero . If you are aiming for an academic career , choosing not to go to graduate school means giving up on that career . By the way , I 'm assuming here that you are asking about fields in which there are very few famous practitioners without advanced degrees . I can imagine that in certain fields ( perhaps art , business , or politics ) , there might be more people who would be attractive to universities despite having only a bachelor 's degree . But even in those cases , it would require truly impressive achievements .
As soon as you are sure , or April 15 , whichever is sooner . You have no ethical obligation to answer before the April 15 deadline , especially if you are waiting for an offer from another department . On the other hand , it would be nice to answer earlier if you can . So it would be nice of you to contact your current department 's admissions committee ( either directly or through your lab director ) , tell them that you have another admission offer but would prefer them , and ask if they 're likely to offer you admission . If they have n't decided , it would be nice of you tell them about your April 15 deadline and ask them when they expect to make up their mind . ( I 'm assuming that you prefer to stay in your current lab . If you 'd rather accept the pending offer , even if you got an offer from your current lab , then what are you waiting for ? If you 're not sure , then what more information do you need ? )
Disability conditions are applicable when there is an uncontrollable disadvantage that prevents the person fairly demonstrating their knowledge , skill and ability in the same timeframe . This is not the case for a person who has and takes the option of moving to a country or region where their language proficiency is not sufficient to demonstrate knowledge or skill . Such a person has the choice of developing their language skills to sufficiency or of simply studying at a university where the common language is one they are fluent in . They control the situation and therefore , it is their obligation to resolve it , not the assessor 's duty . Where these two groups intersect is a case rare enough that it should be handled on its own merits according to any applicable policy and law ( which most likely will mean the extra time is given to account for the disability ) .
What helps , I think , is that " research " is not a single thing but a complex of many different activities . If I am feeling burned out on paper-writing , perhaps I find my joy in coding or mathematics or sketching new project ideas . Likewise when I am happy about papers but feeling burned out on something else . At a larger scale , even a " unified " line of research has many distinct facets that may feel quite different when one is actually closely engaged with it . Thus , I see no difficulty in the idea of remaining interested and engaged for a long period of time . I have been so for nearly 20 years ( counting undergraduate research work as well ) and I see no reason to expect my interest to fail any time soon . Funding , of course , is an entirely different story .
they do n't seem to understand the subject very well . You sound like you are in a level of expertise that you could judge the quality of the lectures . You may then ideally speak to the professor about your allegation they still do this . I am ignoring the regional limitations and considering the question in a general context . Is it even considered an accepted practice ? Assuming that there are no institutional guidelines that goes against assembling questions from the internet ( which you must check if you have n't done already ! ) , from a logical perspective viewing this as a student , the practice is similar to posting questions from the text book or peer reviewed journals . The professor in any case is responsible for the question and its relevance can be questioned with supporting evidence . From the point of view of a student , you could also do a student peer review about the quality and relevance of the question supported by discussions and critical reasoning . If the result of such an assessment goes against the question , you could then report him/her with proof your views about the practice . NOTE - This is not limited to internet based questions but also any questions even from the sources you think are authentic .
Should I have a conversation with him about his working hours ? Yes ! He gets paid to do a job . He does n't do the job . You need to talk to him , even though it 's an uncomfortable situation . Also , you say in a comment : Because the general culture in academia tends to be more like , " Work as many or as few hours as you want as long as you get your work done . " This is true , but you say that he does not get his job done . Frankly , if he only works like 25 hours , even if he would be supremely productive I would still talk to him about his work ethics if he puts in so much less hours than his peers ... and if he is not it 's all the more reason to make sure that he at least tries as hard as the others . If you do n't , the problem is going to be that sooner rather than later many of the 45-hours students are going to wonder why the heck they are actually not enjoying the summer . I have seen in my current group that various bad habits have a tendency to spread like wildfire if the students have the impression that not doing your job is n't in any way frowned upon anyway . If so , how to do it without sounding like a jerk ? In private , without getting emotional or accusatory . Tell him that you have the impression that he works considerably below the amount that was agreed upon , and that you have to ask him to change this . Tell him that you have the impression that his project is not progressing fast enough , and what will happen if he ca n't get it done in time ( you have some course of action in this case , right ? ) . Be prepared that he may counter with some sort of attack against you . For instance , this is a classic in such situations : " Well , since you never have time for me , I do n't know what to do half of the time anyway - so rather than just sit around I leave " . Make sure that you have a good answer in this case .
I am not sure about EE , but for Computer Science , most of the venues you would usually want to track are listed in <URL> . DBLP itself does , as far as I know , not offer a subscription service , but ( behold the beauty of open data ) somebody else has built <URL> . This would allow you to use your favorite newsreader to keep up with conference publications the same way you are already tracking journals .
When I am chairing a session , I always check a few minutes beforehand to ensure that all of the speakers are there . That 's also a good time to check on pronunciation of names . Just say something like : Can you please say your name for me ? I 'd like to pronounce it right when I introduce you . Then it will be fresh in your mind , there 'll be a decent chance of getting it right , and the speaker will know that you cared to consult them and try , even if you do end up screwing it up .
At my university in the UK we have two kinds of assessment for programming courses . Pass/fail ' practicals ' where students are given programming tasks , and are explicitly allowed to discuss them with each other and search online . When the student is ready to submit their solution a demonstrator will look it over and ask questions etc to make sure the student understands why they wrote the code they wrote . Students do n't get a grade for this that counts towards their overall mark for the year , but they are required to ' pass ' the practicals in order to pass the year . Then there are written exams with no computer access . There are questions along the lines of ' write some code that will solve this problem ' , and also more conceptual ' why is this the case ? When would you use that ? ' questions . For the ' write code ' bits , the markers will deduct very few points for simple syntax errors and things like that . The question is not so much ' can the student write a program that will compile on the first try ? ' as ' can the student come up with a good algorithm which solves the problem and give a reasonable expression of it in code ? ' . Note that these courses ( at my uni ) are never for specific languages ; they are courses like ' functional programming ' or ' object oriented programming ' or ' machine learning ' , which will each use a particular language , but we care more that the student understands the concepts than learns the intricacies of the course 's language . This also encourages students to learn ways of designing and writing provably correct programs : if they can reason about programs on a deeper level than intuition , then writing programs on paper is a better test of this than allowing them to experiment and test until the output ' looks right ' for the inputs they 've given it . This seems like a good way to avoid cheating on grades that matter and encourage solid understanding of the important course material . That said , many students hate having to write code on paper without access to S.O. or a compiler !
MIT 's Open Courseware project has a lot of material of this sort . Here is a link to the <URL> , with courses organized by topic . The depth of the offering will vary from course to course . Some have only syllabi , others have complete video lectures , homework assignments , exams , solutions , etc. . The coverage is quite broad and includes courses in all of the specific classes you have listed .
<URL> is supposed to take care of that and it seems to gain significant traction . According to <URL> , it should be launched in fall this year ( 2012 ) . However , I am not sure whether it falls under your definition of " non-commercial " . I am myself very curious about it , my hopes are that finally it will take care of disambiguation of names like " John Smith " - for me e.g. , Web of Science database is practically unusable as it shows several thousands of papers for my name :-| .
Most central European universities do n't traditionally have QEs . However , it seems to me as if it is getting more popular to have something after the first one or two years of your programme . Two data points : In my current university , PhD students need to defend their thesis proposal after ( maximum ) two years . This includes writing their proposal , receiving written comments by two other ( i.e. , not their advisor ) professors of the faculty , and presenting and defending their proposal in front of the entire faculty ( our faculty is pretty small ) . Questions are asked in this defense , but not typically about material that is not directly linked to the proposal . In theory students can fail at this step , but is is very uncommon . The goal is rather to force students ( and advisors ) to have a clear goal of where the thesis is going early on , something that was historically a bit of a problem . When I did my PhD , we did not really have any sort of entry exam or defense in my alma mater . However , since then , they have switched to a model not unlike what I explained above . The main difference is that proposals are only presented ( there is no written document ) , and that only a small committee is responsible for giving feedback on the proposal ( not the entire faculty ) . This defense has to be taken one year after start of the PhD . Failing this defense is again very uncommon . Summary : the places I am well aware of do n't have stressful QEs . Instead , we traditionally had pretty much nothing . Nowadays , many places have a proposal defense instead of a QE , but this is not a step that students typically have to be stressed out about .
If you have published a paper , you should include it in your CV . It does not matter what language the paper is in . For the aid of people who do not speak the language , however , you may wish to include a translation of the paper title as a note , e.g. , : J. Caesar , Commentarii de Bello Gallico [ Commentaries on the Gallic war ] , Caesar House Press , 49 BC , ( in Latin )
The first thing to do is to check if the university has any recommendations about this . If none exist , then the second aspect is to consider if the university is well known under one or another form of the name . The purpose of providing an affiliation and proper address is for the sake of communication . Before e-mail and Internet , most correspondence went by post so a proper address was very important . Now e-mail is used , which means the affiliation is mostly to identify the author and the author 's affiliation . Web sites are usually bilingual so finding the university or department is possible in both English and the native language . Most will probably use the English translation because it makes most sense if the remainder of the paper is in English . A point to make is that if one uses the native language for affiliation etc. then problems will arise for those not familiar with , for example , Cyrillic , Chinese or Japanese . So it seems the best way to communicate affiliation/address is to use English translations that are hopefully officially accepted by the university .
I think that there are three main cases to consider here : The web pages are aggregated data , e.g. , in your example of a study that quantifies change over time . Collecting web pages as data is routinely done in scientific studies , such as complexity studies that track a lot of pages . In this case , the pages are not generally cited ( and any data from them is likely to be at least partially abstracted and de-identified , to deal with a variety of legal issues ) . An individual web page is a subject of study , e.g. , for literary or intellectual criticism . In this case , the standard references to the URL with time accessed is appropriate , along with block quoting of critical passages as part of your analysis . You should save full copies yourself , and share them upon request , but likely can not publish them unless you obtain permission or unless the source has explicitly adopted a copyright that allows republication ( e.g. , <URL> ) . The web page is being cited as a scientific work ( some overlap with the last case ) . In this case also , the standard reference of URL with time accessed is appropriate . This is unusual , since most scientific works go into archival papers of some form , but does happen -- I 've certainly done so , when that is actually the right document to cite . This should still be a document with some expectation of longevity , e.g. , a blog post on a scientist 's established site , the archives of a mailing list or discussion group , a manual from a piece of software 's distribution site .
There are basically no restriction on who can write a paper , so , clearly you can . If you have no affiliation , it might be hard to go publish a " free " paper ( e.g. , a technical report or a pre-print on arxiv ) , but you can always consider submitting your idea to a workshop/conference . However , you might have to pay the conferences/travel fees ( although some conferences might help you , if you ca n't afford it ) . You can also submit your idea to a journal , as many do n't charge anything to publish . You can of course also just write a PDF and put it on your website , or even do a long blog post . There is one thing you might need to be careful of , since you might not be used to write academic paper : a good paper is not just a good idea , this idea needs to be validated . In other words , you ca n't just write : " here is a cool idea I had " , you also need to describe how it differs from existing approaches ( perhaps your idea has been already published ) , and you need to describe why it 's a good idea . There are many approaches to do so , for instance by presenting your idea in a formal setting and prove that you can mitigate DDoS attacks ( probably under some assumptions ) . You can also run some experiments , and show that your approach mitigated x % more attacks than some known approaches . If you 're interested in eventually pursuing a career in academia , showing that you can explain and validate your work might be as important as having a good idea ( because not only you have a good idea , but you can convince others that it 's a good one ! ) . Note that another approach in your situation could be to implement your idea as an open-source software , and if it 's adopted by the community , then it 's another form of validation .
Usually the system goes like this : Good answer = get some points , no answer = no points , wrong answer = negative points . Note that by this system , students who do n't study a part of the material do get penalized by not getting any points , is just that the penalty is not as big as by guessing the wrong answer . I do believe that this system works well as it is and would be wrong to penalize wrong answers . The catch is that the system has to be designed in such a way that the expected value for random guessing should be lower than the expected value for no answers . Here is why I think why negative blanks would be wrong : In theory , the goal of the tests is to test what the students know and what they do n't know . By encouraging them to leave blanks when they do n't know the answer it becomes clear even to them what they do not know and what they know . Also , by forcing them to answer at random the grade of average and weak students becomes more a measure of luck than of knowledge . A weak student who guesses by luck 7 out of 12 answers will get more points than a student who does n't know 6 answers but misses all 6 of them . And if you think that this is not relevant , ask yourself the following question : would you trust your doctor if he passed his classes by guessing the answers ? Would you trust him if he diagnoses by randomly guessing ? P.S. Just to clarify , the answer to your question depends by what you understand by " improved test results " . For me the relevance of a test is to test the actual knowledge of the students , and a test result is good if there is a strong correlation between the knowledge and the result . In this sense , the test results would definitely not improve . If by test results you understand the average score , then the scores would improve . But then , instead of doing this just give each student 100 % , that would be the best test ever right ? But then , the score of the " best test ever " would be completely irrelevant , and most likely useless ( especially in the cases where the score is used for ranking i.e. admission , scholarships , . . )
end question
start question
How to credit Creative Commons icons in a Bachelor 's Thesis ?
Personally , I would go for the colophon option . This will be a natural place to look for anyone who has ever read a book , and it does n't " interfere " with the scholarly work you are presenting . Captions of figures are also fine , but if you use the icons in more than one figure , I would definitely prefer to place the credit in the colophon . In the end it is primarily an aesthetic choice , but I agree with not putting them in the bibliography .
Refrain from referring to the printed/PDF page number at all , and refer to something more concrete , like " in section X " or , of course , a particular figure number if you 're referring to a figure .
I would n't find it okay if someone would come to my house because of that . Work and personal life should be separate and it would be inappropriate to visit the supervisor there . Does he not have an office ? If nobody can tell you where to find him , then you should call him or write an email and ask for an appointment .
Adobe Acrobat has a feature called <URL> . It lets multiple people in real-time comment on a single PDF so long as the PDF is hosted in a single place ( e.g. , if your department has network storage or there are services online to host such files ) . It works pretty well and is already built-in . Alternatively , you can email them each the PDF and then use the <URL> features to combine them , then send out that PDF . Not as nice but it does n't have to be hosted .
One approach is follows : Find one or two good recent PhD theses in your chosen area . Read these thoroughly . As you read , write down every question that pops into your mind , write down every time the author states that something is left for future work or needs further investigation . This will have a dual effect . Firstly , you will get a good introduction to a particular research field . Secondly , you will have a bunch of questions that need to be investigated . Prune trivial questions , non-sensible ones , etc. . Next , organize your questions thematically and see whether you can find a common thread to these questions , something that could form the basis of your research . Remove any questions that do not fit will with the others . Based on the remaining questions , formulate a couple of coherent questions that your research could address . Write a plan to address these questions . Work through plan . Write thesis .
I am not so sure that your final year thesis has actually ' failed ' . It is not actually expected that many students will propose something truly new in their bachelor 's thesis . The purpose is to teach you how to research a topic and write about your research . In this case , the fact that your supervisor did not give you much guidance or direction may actually be seen as positive , since you have succeeded in finding the relevant papers on your own , and have ( I presume ) written a decent paper about your research . You are now heading into a phase where you will be expected to go beyond a literature search and propose " something new " . Finding the relevant references is a basic skill required of any researcher . So is being able to work independently ( that is , without someone always telling you what to do and where to focus your research ) . Your current supervisor 's supervisory style has forced you to do this -- point out this fact in your SOP ! Take credit for having initiative and independence , and do not see your final year thesis as failed . It may not be outstanding , but it has served the purpose well .
You have to cut down brutally . You will have a half hour or so to show the work of a year or more , that is hard . Explain what this is all about . A short introduction/reminder ( depending on your audience ! ) is probably needed . State your objectives clearly . One slide for this should be enough . Summarize your main results . You wo n't be able to cover everything , but make sure you show enough to cover the stated objectives . Perhaps highlight some tricky point , or a neat technique . Summarize your objectives again , explaining how they were met . If pertinent , point out possible future fruitful work building on your thesis It might be useful to have a slide with publications resulting from the thesis , both already published or in the works ( submitted and waiting for approval ) . You might consider having some " spare " slides with more details , on which you can fall back when asked to elaborate .
There may be advisers , departments , universities , countries ( academic cultures ) or fields where you need to come up with your own idea . I would not think this is the norm , however . In many cases Phd positions are financed by project funding so that the project is largely defined . This does not mean that the entire PhD is staked out in advance but the direction is . When you start a PhD you need an adviser which would imply that the field and direction of research of that adviser will determine the direction of your research . In many academic systems you directly apply to a PhD project which is pre-defined . I could probably come up with more cases that point away from come up with your own thesis topic . That said , however , it is not inconceivable that someone could enter a system with an own idea but since coming up with great ideas commonly involves having a deep understanding of a field , and that in itself being one of the goals of a PhD , it would be a very rare case . So depending where you are or where you are heading in the academic world , you do not need to know the thesis topic in advance . You will be looking for topics that may interest you and once finding positions announced decide if they fit your interests . It is rare that you find exactly what you dream of so many go for positions that are " close enough " . Another point here is that you would probably not select a topic only , you would also consider the academic milieu and if you think it would be good for you and your endeavour into research .
In order , yes , and no . A thesis is a public document and thus helps establish " prior art " in terms of research . Of course sometimes researchers come up with the same ideas simultaneously , or certain work is just not known as widely as it should be , so sometimes work gets innocently repeated ( as compared to plagiarised , which can also happen , but reasonably rarely ) . As for publication , a thesis is an entirely different kind of publication to a paper , in every discipline I am familiar with , publishing papers drawn from work in a thesis is expected , sometimes even required . The only ( ? ) way you could interfere with further publication would be if you published your thesis as a monograph .
Even if not " published " in some sense , prior work can/should/must be cited . E.g. , cited literally as " ... Ph.D. thesis 20xx , University of X , ( unpublished ) . " Unless they literally help you significantly change what they 'd already done , they should not be authors on your work .
You must cite them ! Failure to cite photographs and figures is just as much plagiarism as stealing quotations . To some extent , it is tougher to use pictures from other sources , because you need to make sure you have the permissions to use them . You should add the citation in the caption , as well as the requisite acknowledgments required by the author or publisher .
The PhD thesis should be on a much higher level than the Honours/Masters thesis , offering a contribution to human knowledge that is of a sufficient level of " significance " to warrant publication in a respected journal . Significance is highly subjective , and you also do not necessarily have to publish to be awarded the PhD ( sometimes the peer-review delay means that they come out afterwards , or there may be some intellectual property issues that make it beneficial to refrain from publication ) . It is awarded based on your supervisors consent and a review of academics in your field . So the " significance " would probably be judged by them in terms of how much original work they see as a reasonable expectation at that stage of your development ( first 3 years of serious/committed research ) . Unfortunately it also means that some people who probably do not deserve PhD 's are awarded them anyway for fulfilling grunt work for their easy-going supervisors . It is possible that some Honours/Masters thesis might even be more significant/higher quality than a PhD thesis . Unfortunately , this does not mean that the submission of the thesis will award the degree that they deserve . The university may have a policy to upgrade the student 's enrolment if the supervisor senses that such progress is being made . However , it is impossible to upgrade to a PhD without completing Honours and I believe nearly every single university has a policy of a minimum period of enrolment before submission is allowed . A subsequent question that you may have is how to gain a PhD without enrolling in one , which is another level of achievement completely . As for the difference between Honours/Bachelor and Masters it would depend on your university , but both have no requirement for publication quality research and are usually small tasks/ideas that are not worth the supervisors time to think about alone , or involve a lot of labor . In fact , in my school , many Honours thesis are of a higher level than the Masters , because the smart Honours students will either graduate into the work force or go straight into a PhD . The Masters students are usually those who can not find a job and are not suited to research . However , I believe some other universities may require a mandatory Masters degree to start the PhD . You may get a better idea by looking at some titles/abstracts of completed theses . The PhD level will be something like a new method/observation/application whereas the Masters/Honours will be an application specific set of measurements/simulations or even simply a literature review to gauge the needs of future work . The word limits are also typically different ( although note that quality is NOT proportional to the number of words ) , with PhD at 100K , Masters at 50K and Honours at 30K at my university .
This is a pretty broad question , but if you are looking for a general guide on how to write there have been a number of books suggested to me . <URL> This is a decent book on explaining the principles on why and how you should write computer science articles . It 's very computer science specific , with a bit more emphasis toward databases and operating systems , but I think it 's applicable to most technical fields ( of which computational linguistics should fall into ) . I like this one because it 's a general guide to writing that outlines the process and the structure . <URL> A commonly-recommended book that a lot of people swear by but I found it a bit too low-level for my liking and actually had a hard time finishing it . A professor described it as " too prescriptive " . <URL> This is an okay book as a reference manual for improving your prose , but is n't a good guide for figuring out the writing process . There 's good advice in this book ( and it 's actually rather fun to flip through just to learn about various style points ) but can be difficult to use as an actual guide . <URL> I 've gotten through a few parts of this book and it gives very specific advice on how to proceed on improving your writing , especially explaining specifically how to introduce ideas in paragraphs , how to flow them together to create longer manuscripts , and how to restructure and correct text so the main ideas come through . As I surmised , it is in fact very analytical and detailed and does describe the rationales behind its recommendations . I think this book is a great resource for those who have some words written , who know they have to make their writing " flow better " or " more clear " but are n't really sure how to do it . It appears to be an especially valuable book for the " second pass " through anything , where you have written down your initial ideas in part-writing , part bullets , and are trying to convert it into a real readable piece of work . ( Previously , I wrote : This book was JUST recommended to me and I have n't read it , but it is apparently very analytical and detailed , and outlines the rationales behind why one should write in the way it discusses . In fact , I think there a jab at the Elements of Style in this book where the author laments that " Be clear " is GREAT advice . We all KNOW that . The real problem is , " How is it that I can actually implement ' be clear ' in my writing ? " However , I have n't gotten far enough to comment on it yet . ) So there 's a little about what to read . As for what you should know ? Well , that 's a more difficult question :)
As noted <URL> , this is probably highly dependent on the university culture and field . My answer is based on my impressions from CS in Germany . In my subfield ( HCI-related ) , it was most usual for doctoral candidates to supervise between one and four Bachelor/Master theses a year , maybe a bit less for post-docs ( each of which took exactly 6 months ) . ( Depending on the topic , supervision occasionally took place in groups - i.e. two or three supervisors for one student , taking turns at supervision tasks or focusing different aspects of the work . ) As a rough guideline , the " amount " of supervision provided was usually a weekly meeting ( typically , between 10 and 60 minutes in length ) with the student to give them advice and answer questions . And , realistically , in some phases and for some students , to remind them that they should get some work done because they can not work on their Bachelor/Master thesis forever . As a secondary channel of supervision , students were free to ask urgent questions whenever they came up , via e-mail or by just dropping by in the supervisor 's office whenever it was convenient . The kind of supervision covered a wide spectrum - essentially , everything from high-level advice ( decisions about the content and how to proceed , developing some basic ideas for solutions together , scientific best practices , ... ) to low-level operational details ( technical issues in the code and in the LaTeX document , stylistic writing and layouting questions in the document , ... ) could come up .1 As for looking at drafts , I agree with <URL> in that it 's likely too late if the thesis is almost due . Personally , when I knew the student was in the phase in which they had already scheduled some writing , I would ask my students on almost every meeting whether there 's a new or revised section that I can read and comment on ( not necessarily because I was so keen on commenting , but first and foremost as another means of urging students to do the part of the task that most liked the least - writing the thesis document ) . Moreover , at least at my home department , we usually required students to use the department 's <URL> version control system , which was another way how supervisors could look at the students ' progress and the current state of their thesis when they had a feeling progress was n't as smooth as it should be . Lastly , concerning fairness , I must admit the thought that there could be anything unfair ( in a way that should be avoided ) in this never crossed my mind . Of course , supervisors in different institutes may hold very different opinions as to what amount and kind of effort is optimal and feasible in their supervision . But then , students are not assigned to supervisors in my place ; they usually pick a topic they like and they know beforehand who is going to be the supervisor for that topic . Anyway , as a result of the different opinions , supervision between institutes differed . Students could have bad luck with their supervisor , or with the typical style of supervision in the institute that focuses on the subfield they like . But the question is : Should you do anything about it ? I 'd say no . First , because I consider it part of a university graduate 's skills to also get along with supervision that does not ideally suit their personal preferences . And moreover , because I firmly believe that unfairness should not be countered by removing any advantages until every option is as bad as the original quality minimum . 1 : This does not mean that students would have supervisors do all their work . The goal was rather guiding the students towards a balance between working out problems autonomously and not being shy to actively contact the supervisor about any current roadblocks .
( I will quote a <URL> by <URL> and a <URL> by <URL> . ) You have got three qualities of the thesis production : good , cheap , fast . You can choose two . Hiring a LaTeX specialist is good ( if you find a good one ) , fast ( if you find a good one ) but expensive -- typesetting a 100-page thesis can take around 20 -- 30 hours of work , easily more depending on the text , on the person you work with , on the amount of discussion about the appearance , proofreading etc. . Making it yourself is cheap . However , unless you are Jarod from the Pretender series or you know LaTeX already , it can not be both good and fast . Of course , making it yourself is better in moving your LaTeX skills forward , but I do not think this is crucial for an academic career , surely it is not more crucial than submitting a quality thesis in time . People hire services of all kinds , you get grant-writing , typesetting , conference organization , IT , etc. -- very various kind of out-sourced services for which someone can say : " A good researcher has to be able to do this . " To answer your question about LaTeX services : I doubt universities have , in general , such services themselves . Some have a LaTeX theses class ( of varying quality ) , some even do not have this . However , there are independent LaTeX consults and consulting companies . I ca n't list any since ( 1 ) I do n't know them and ( 2 ) this is not an advertising site . However , remember that these people are highly specialized , and the prices of their services reflect this .
I do n't think there is any universal answer to this question . I just defended about 8 hours ago , in my case there was a pre-defense and a defense . The pre-defense in our program tells the student what needs to be done to successfully finish the program , the actual public defense is largely ceremonial . When I met in private with the committee they just shook my hand and that was the end of it . I am aware of other defenses , where there is an oral exam after the non-committee members exit the room . But , from what I have been told the questions in this exam are largely for clarification , and to determine what needs to be done to graduate . I 'm sure some others can clarify , but usually your dissertation advisor has your back , and you have already done the work at that point . So the defense is more of a chance for you to share your work , than a second order comprehensive exam . It really depends on your country , institution , department , and program .
Personally , I am in favour of adding them as references in the bibliography section . With that said , I am from a CS subfield that is very close to the " real world " in a way that related work is almost always a motley mixture of peer-reviewed publications , books , newspaper articles , technical standard documents ( such as those by W3C ) , and actual innovative software or websites ( whose concepts were never formally published in a scientific venue ) , i.e. sources with a continuously varying degree of reliability . Consequently , trying to find a well-defined rule about what to add as a footnote and what to add as a bibliography reference is certain to give you headaches ( and uncertain to lead to a useful and consistent result ) . However , I can see a few ( maybe a bit subjective ) general advantages of using bibliography items rather than footnotes for links ( in no particular order ) : Bibliography items tend to more or less have a fixed format . Frequently , meta-information such as year of publication or author can be provided for web resources just as it can for anything else . When using a footnote , authors may be tempted to just provide the link and skip the meta-information that would be naturally included in a bibliography item , thereby foregoing both any due attribution and any information required to possibly locate the resource again , should the link die . I have seen styleguides that generally forbid the use of footnotes ( e.g. <URL> ) , but I have yet to see a styleguide that generally forbids the use of a bibliography . By not using any footnotes , your manuscript is one step closer to being agnostic of the final formatting used ( and thus matches with the ideal of separating content from layout ) . If the same web resource is mentioned twice throughout your document , there is absolutely no problem if the link is provided in a bibliography item , which is simply referenced twice in your text , if appropriate ( e.g. if the two mentions are sufficiently far apart ) . If the link is in a footnote , on the other hand , things are not so clear : The footnote can be added several times in the document . However , this means a waste of space , and it may also confuse readers who expect some new information when reading a new footnote for the first time , or who might wonder whether they are looking at a copy-and-paste error where a previously unmentioned link should be provided . Personally , I consider this " solution " downright bad style . The same footnote can be pointed to several times . While this may be slightly cumbersome in some typesetting software , it is definitely feasible . However , it significantly increases the effort for finding the footnote ( it might be on any page in the document ) , and the need to switch to another page than the one the reader is currently on kind of defeats the purpose of footnotes , anyway . As a reader , I find keeping track of references , figure numbers , and table numbers that I still want to look into after finishing or while reading the current paragraph or section hard enough . There is no reason to add yet another independent list for footnote numbers . Also as a reader , I have a certain expectation what amount of information I will find when following a pointer to additional information . For bibliography references , it is clear that the pointer points to an entire external document . For footnotes , I conversely prefer it to be clear that the pointer points to no more than one or two sentences worth of additional information ( for which I do not need to search for and/or open another document ) .
Yes , the acknowledgements section of your paper is an appropriate place to thank anyone who provided valuable assistance . Depending on the circumstances , you could phrase it pretty generally ( " I thank the reference librarians at University X for their assistance in conducting a literature search " ) , you could thank specific people , or you could even identify particular contributions ( " I am grateful to Y for bringing the literature on Z to my attention " ) .
Images in a thesis should be of the same quality as images in a peer-reviewed publication . Hand drawn circles and arrows are not formal enough . Circles and arrows drawn with programs like TeX , GIMP , Illustrator , or Powerpoint are formal enough .
Endorsement is not a service offered by a college , like academic advisement or career placement . Endorsement is an indication that the endorser knows you and believes you are not a crank , or has read your paper and believes it is a reasonably appropriate paper . It 's not like just by having a connection to the college , you could automatically be eligible for an endorsement from a professor there . A program through which high school students can earn college credit does not necessarily give its students increased access to mathematics faculty . So this " connection " may or may not be of use to you in gaining an endorsement . Instead , I recommend reading <URL> and <URL> for suggestions on what to do with your paper , should you choose to write one . The latter explains how to find names of people who are eligible to endorse in a given area . ( There may or may not be anyone in the college you are connected to who is eligible in your area . )
end question
start question
Open Access for journals : extent of the content remix ( CC-BY ) license ?
Short answer - CC-BY is most common in OA generally but it 's not ubiquitous , and you 'd not be alone if you did n't use it . It 's certainly a topic of some debate . Generally speaking , humanities academics/journals are more concerned about it than the sciences ( see eg <URL> . Concerns about commercial reuse ( NC ) are usually more common than about derivatives ( ND ) . CC-BY is by now more or less the standard in the sciences . Almost all all-OA titles that I 've dealt with in the earth sciences &amp; biological sciences use this as the default , though there are a small handful that use CC-BY-NC or CC-BY-NC-ND as their standard license ( CC-BY-ND is rare ) , and a few that run on a more traditional " no license but we 're always free to read " basis . I have seen CC-0 and CC-BY-SA papers but this is very unusual . Hybrid titles ( subscription journals with a per-article OA option ) tend to have more mixed arrangements , with some offering only CC-BY , some a choice of CC licenses , some a generic " free to read " option , etc. . Hybrid titles published by the major commercial publishers tend to have a one-size-fits-all license policy regardless of their subject matter . Some numbers to illustrate this : in 2014 my institution published 93 CC-BY papers , six CC-BY-NC , and four CC-BY-NC-ND . Four of the NC ( - ND ) papers were in hybrid titles with a choice of license , the others were required by journal policy . As noted , this is a mix of publishing in the earth &amp; biological sciences . Meanwhile , much of the drive for licensing comes from funding agencies . These tend to either ( a ) require the CC-BY license ( Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , Wellcome Trust , Research Councils UK ) , or ( b ) not specify a license as such ( NSF , HEFCE ) . UK funders have been more aggressive about specifying a fixed license than US ones .
To write this in more detail , the text of the questions is clearly owned by the copyright holder . The ideas embodied in the questions are not protected by copyright . It 's usually considered plagiarism to completely rephrase and rewrite a question without citing the original source , but plagiarism generally is n't illegal . As noted in the downvoted answer , in some communities there is a broad acceptance of some kinds of copying when it comes to exercises , but I would n't want to endorse wholesale copying of homework exercises from one book to another . There are likely to be canonical problems that should be worked by every student in a particular discipline , and those would probably have the least claim to protection and the least interest in protection from the publisher . The more creativity going into the question , the more protection it has and the more enforcement you are likely to see . Writing good exercises is challenging , but you should endeavor to do so for your website . You should cite to sources when you adapt an exercise from somewhere , and you should mention that an exercise is a classical example that all students should be able to do when you draw on something that Gauss or Euler proved as an exercise centuries ago .
Your question is really two : reviewers and editorial board members . Reviewers are peers reviewing other peers papers , or put differently and in very general terms , everyone reviews each other 's manuscripts . Reviewers are not a professional occupation tied to a journal . This means that a reviewer is just as much welcome as an author as the author who was reviewed . When it comes to editorial board members they are ( of course with a few exceptions in a few , probably wealthy , journals ) also scientists just like anyone submitting to the journal . They are as such not prohibited to submit manuscripts to the journal in which they serve . It is of course important that the editor 's manuscript is edited by someone else . Even this may seem poor to many but if one takes an opposite stance and view it from the journal 's side , having editors sneaking in papers at will will not reflect well on the journal so for no other reason , self preservation keeps most from doing so . As an editor for a journal I would be very hesitant to submit to " my " journal but at the same time , if the field is narrow and possible publications venues are few then the choices may not be overwhelming and publishing in the " own " journal may be the only possibility . It is not fair to think of editors as pariah and person 's who should be banned from communicating their science . It is just important that they can and that it is done in such a way that they receive the same treatment as any other submitting author .
I agree with the other answers , but they are anecdotal , and you asked for some " definitive " answers to help you convince your colleagues and advisor . Here 's what I found : IEEE None of the IEEE journals has a required charge for non-open access publications . The <URL> says : For a detailed listing of paper charges by publication , download the List of Voluntary and Overlength Paper Charges ( PDF , 287 KB ) . <URL> is the current version of that list . You will note that some journals have voluntary " sustaining " charges for " normal-length " manuscripts . In fact , <URL> specifically states that those charges are not obligatory : IEEE Policy 6.9 permits some types of periodicals to levy page charges . If your publication is one of these , it is your company or institution , not you , which is being asked for support . Payment is not obligatory nor is it a prerequisite for publication . In the statement above " page charges " refers only to charges for not-open , not-overlength , not-color-print articles . Many IEEE publications do have <URL> , which are mandatory - if your paper exceeds the " normal " length then you must either reduce the length of your paper or pay the overlength charges . The length of a " normal " paper depends on the journal and publication type ( normal-length " letters " may be as short as 1 or 2 pages , for example . ) Some also have charges for color figures appearing in print , although there is no charge for online-only color . More definitive info is available for each journal in the IEEE Xplore site , at the " About Journal " page , section " Author Resources " , link " Additional Information " , which opens a PDF with detailed " Information for Authors " ( see <URL> ) . ( The document also does not include the recently added IEEE open access options , which do have required charges , which are listed <URL> . ) Springer The <URL> asks HOW MUCH DOES IT COST TO PUBLISH IN A SPRINGER JOURNAL ? The answer there is : For the majority of Springer journals , publishing an article is free of charge . If a journal requires page charges , you will find them on the journal 's springer.com homepage or in its Instructions for Authors . Charges might apply e.g. for color figures or over-length articles . The information on these extra costs will also be available from the journal 's homepage or its Instructions for Authors . Charges for open access articles : If you choose to publish an open access article ( " Springer Open Choice " article or in a " SpringerOpen " journal ) , there will be an Article Processing Charge ( APC ) to be paid by the author . As a consequence , the article can be freely read , downloaded or distributed from SpringerOpen.com and SpringerLink.com by any internet user . Furthermore , even for open-access journals , <URL> : SpringerOpen journals routinely waive charges for authors from low-income countries ; and individual waiver requests are considered on the grounds of hardship on a case-by-case basis . Another Springer FAQ titled <URL> claims : Page charges do not exist . which I think is as close to " definitive " as you can get . Elsevier Some Elsevier journals do have author charges , and by searching the Elsevier site I did find a ( very ) few non-open journals with required page charges . I did not find any in CS with author charges , though . The official <URL> I found is : I am submitting my paper to one of your journals . How do I find out if there are page charges associated with this journal ? Page charges are journal specific . Many journals do not have page charges for submitted papers . To determine whether the journal to which you are submitting has page charges , you will need to find the homepage for the journal and check it 's specific submission instructions . So if you 're looking for a definitive " No page charges , " Elsevier is not the answer . In practice , however , there are literally only a handful of non-open Elsevier journals that charge author fees .
If it has been accepted but you have not yet signed any sort of agreement , then it 's easy in theory : you just tell the editor that you have decided to withdraw the paper . They might be unhappy , but you have a right to do this ( both legally and according to academic norms ) . If the paper has already been published , then there may not be anything you can do . Retracting a published paper is serious business , done only in cases of serious error or unethical behavior . If you have already agreed to some sort of license allowing publication and paid ( or agreed to pay ) but the paper has not yet been published , then you should move fast . Legally the journal can go ahead and publish , and they may decide to do so , but your chances of convincing them before they publish the paper are higher than after they publish it . There have been <URL> of unethical journals publishing papers that have been withdrawn and then demanding money . If that happens , then it is serious misbehavior on the part of the journal ( and proves you were wise to withdraw the paper ) .
The format used to be the only possibility for including graphics in ( La ) TeX. . Now the more modern alternative is using , which also supports other more common graphic formats natively ( such as pdf ) . Most journals have outdated LaTeX processing pipelines , so they are still using eps . ( And , frankly , they have little incentive to get more modern , since they are in a strong oligopoly position . )
All journals that have a high standing have the standing because of the support of the community . If the community loses interest , the journal will drop in the ranking . The top journals have therefore attracted authors for one reason or another . The editorial staff of journals try to maintain this status by making sure the work published there is of good quality and will be cited . It is thus not impossible for new journals to attain high status as long as authors provide the necessary papers . To this mix , we now also add the impact factor and other bibliometric factors . They matter now but have not been the driving factor for making the older journal what they are today . I work with a more modest journal and I can definitely state that improving your impact factor is far more difficult than to drop in ranking . But , if your ranking becomes high enough ( no specific number will be relevant since it varies between fields ) a journal will be self-fuelling since many want to publish their material there and competition stiffens leading to a strong selection . So the standing of Science and Nature , is part their long history , in part the hard work by the journal itself and in part the , now , need for authors to publish in as high ranking journals as possible since that is what forms the basis for most evaluations in academia .
I agree with Seteropere completely , " Network Science " is a very broad subject . I work with the theory of " dynamic networks " which involves a lot of graph theory , complex networks , and time series analysis , but also in protocol design for Delay Tolerant Networks which is another application you might like . Take a look at this website , <URL> it has plenty of links that I rate very highly . Including links to Alain Barrat 's work ( check out <URL> it has some wonderful illustrations of dynamic networks ) . There is also a conference devoted specifically to Temporal and Dynamic Networks <URL> Here are some of the tips I sent to a recent new student in our department , most are free in that there are no paywalls : Look at the references on the most recent papers you are reading , and also look at the conferences and journals that the authors are involved in by visiting their personal websites . This will tell you where people are currently submitting to . There are some websites devoted to finding conferences too , but do n't rely on them . Some examples : <URL> <URL> Find a conference you like the look of , look at their calls for papers , and past proceedings to see what they are asking for . Mailing lists ! Sign up to ( but do n't spam ) well known mailing lists . Again this will be dependent on the area you are interested in . In computer networking the biggest mailing list for calls for papers is probably the IEEE TCCC mailing list , <URL> . Social networks . Sign up to Twitter/Facebook/Linkedin / etc. . A lot of Phd Students , PostDocs , lecturers , research groups , and conferences are on Twitter . When you find someone or something you like , look for it on social networking sites , look who is following , what they are talking about , and get involved . Good luck .
My experience with ACM Transactions publications , as both author and editor , is that they do not generally offer any sort of early access . I find this rather strange for a computing society , but suspect this may be because they also have <URL> : authors can put early versions of their article up on arXiv or similar repositories . Many ACM journal articles are also extended versions of conference articles , so that is another route for accessing information that you may be looking for .
I have just received an email from the editor and I am writing it here Dear Dr. * * * , We can not prevent an author to upload her/his paper to Arxiv . However , because of the double-blind process applied in Communication Letters , we do n't encourage it . There is only one restriction : Your paper should stand alone without any supplementary material and/or reference to an ArXiv post . Sincerely ,
If you are an <URL> user , you can use the <URL> package . This package allows you to analyze data from Google Scholar and obtain citations , publication list and even perform predictions of the h-index . An example R code :
" in-house " program is the term I always use myself and see in other people 's papers . In the corporate context , <URL> defines it as In-house software is a software that is produced by a corporate entity for purpose of using it within the organization . <URL> in an academic context Energy minimization is done with yammp , an in-house molecular mechanics package . <URL> All analyses were done with a battery of in-house codes and external analytical tools . I would n't say " in-house " strictly means " the source code is private " . I have sometimes seen people use " in-house " to mean " code our own research group wrote and uses , but which we also make available as open-source code " . But if I see a sentence in an article like " All analysis was performed using in-house code " , and no reference , then I read it as " We used some code we wrote ourselves which we have n't published anywhere " , which sounds like what you want .
Many ( most ? ) academic papers include a brief acknowledgment section somewhere ( the location is not standard ) . In this section it is frequent to acknowledge help by the referees . One can equally well acknowledge comments by referees of previous versions of the paper . For the sake of clarity it seems best to mention that one is thanking the referee of the previous version . E.g. if I were refereeing the new version , reading We are grateful for the help provided by the referee . is ambiguous : does this refer to a previous referee , or am I being thanked in advance for my help ? ( That 's not so good . ) Clearer would be something like This version of the paper takes into account helpful comments provided by the ( or " a " ) referee of a previous version . If the paper gets accepted in the second journal , one could change to something like We are grateful for helpful comments from multiple referees on several versions of the paper . Is it academically necessary ? I 'm not sure it 's ever strictly necessary to acknowledge an anonymous referee -- it seems to me that a situation in which it 's vitally necessary to acknowledge someone is a situation in which an anonymous acknowledgment would be insufficient . ( Moreover , the way I have always understood it is that referee comments are " being given " to the authors of the paper . ) If you feel that a referee 's contributions merit coauthorship , ( take a deep breath first ; this opens a can of worms ) you should discuss that with the editor . However , if you got direct intellectual help from the referee and not just helpful remarks -- i.e. , if the referee contributed some part of the intellectual content of the paper -- then I would certainly recommend documenting that rather than assuming the credit for yourself .
Is this a cultural difference between continental European and British/American system I can not surely speak for all continental Europe , not even for a small portion of it and not for all fields , but speaking with a few European colleagues of mine , it appears that the expectations that we have on recommendation letters are completely different from the typical US expectations . In particular : We mostly consider recommendation letters as a mean to discriminate between those that are not able to provide any recommendation letter and those that can provide at least a couple . That is , we expect most of the people not to be able to get one ( in a distant past , I would n't have considered one who just attended one or two classes with me eligible for a recommendation letter ) . We do n't expect recommendation letters to be more than one page long , and half a page is ok ( you just have to tell me that you had worked with this person and that they are not that bad ) . We do n't expect the recommendation letters to be sent directly from the reference to the application board . We consider the writing of recommendation letters as a favour to the applicant , and not as a duty of our profession . Actually , all the recommendation letters I wrote but one were handed directly to the student ( or former student ) . For the exception , I 've received a direct request from a university to submit the recommendation through their online system : the uploading procedure , with questions to answer too , was such a hassle that I 've decided that in the future I will probably decline any request for recommendation letters to be uploaded anywhere . To answer your main question : Should I ask the professors to write and hand me recommendation letters directly , or should I try to communicate with the university and let the professors email them the letter/give me a physical letter sealed within an envelop , which I will send to the university by mail later on ? I understand your reasons , but I 'd consider this an odd thing to do . I 'd simply ask the student to provide the recommendation letters . In case the professors were reluctant to hand the letters directly to the student , I 'd write an email explaining the different traditions .
<URL> points to <URL> , which allows you to look up the policy of specific journals .
The policies vary entirely from journal to journal about what is considered acceptable . APS journals , for instance , will accept both MS Word-based documents as well as documents formatted with RevTeX , their modified template system . ACS journals and a number of other publishers also offer their own LaTeX - and Word-specific templates for authors to use . Whether the use of the template is required or merely recommended is also a function of the journal . So , as a general rule , you should always check the homepage of a journal before you start preparing an article for submission to that journal . To some extent , I prefer working with LaTeX in preparing manuscripts , for the simple reason that their plain-text document format makes it a lot less painful to switch back and forth between different templates , compared to a word-processing format like Word or LibreOffice or Pages .
I think this will depend highly from the publisher himself , but any problem will probably result in delay before publication . If the publisher sees for the first time at the final draft slightly new figures , he might still ask for a few modifications . As such , I prefer to do before the next revision as much as possible to make sure that the publisher is happy and everything is done as soon as possible .
When designing an assessment , it is helpful to look at something like <URL> . Since you mention B-school , I assume you are assessing a management or finance module . I always thought finance modules in particular should be open-book because of the extensive use of formulas and , as pointed out by F ' x and others , simply testing if the student can remember some information is not really the most interesting ( for teachers or students ) . Sticking with Bloom 's Taxonomy , remembering is the lowest form of assessment . If the students do not have to worry about getting the formulas right , then you can start something more complex . For example , have them make recommendations or create a plan for whatever the subject is . For example , if you are assessing leadership , give them a scenario with enough background knowledge and ask them to recommend ( with justification of course ) a particular leadership style for the situation . Remembering the standard leadership styles is not what is most important . What is important is that they can see a situation , assess the more important elements of that situation with respect to leadership , evaluate the pros and cons of each option , and decide which would be the best of all the choices to be used , which may include creating their own leadership style . Basically , for open book tests , move further up towards evaluation and creating and away from rote memorization .
<URL> sets out principles that define meaning of " open " with respect to knowledge and in relation to data and content . This is based on three fundamental rights : free to use , free to re-use , free to re-distribute for all . In other words : Open data and content can be freely used , modified , and shared by anyone for any purpose . which is synonymous with " free " or " libre " as in the <URL> . There are a <URL> for the most diverse data types ( images , text , audio , video , data , databases , source code , etc. ) that guarantee this openness by this definition . The meaning of " open " in the terms " open data " and " open content " ensures quality and encourages compatibility between different pools of open material . This can be summed up as : Open means anyone can freely access , use , modify , and share for any purpose ( subject , at most , to requirements that preserve provenance and openness ) . with respect to knowledge : Knowledge is open if anyone is free to access , use , modify , and share it -- subject , at most , to measures that preserve provenance and openness . For precise the meaning of " open " , check <URL> page ( or <URL> ) . Source : <URL>
Flagging as spam and deleting them is the right thing to do . Also , if they seem to be using the name of a legitimate researcher , warn that person . Anything else is a waste of your time . There is no organization that licenses scientific publication , nor is it clear such a thing is possible . Even if there was , it would likely make no difference : if we can not even limit the activity of <URL> , which are clearly illegal , how can we do any better against predatory publishers , who are often essentially the same thing in a more legitimate mask ?
end question
start question
Why there is " Dr. " before name of PhD degree holder ?
" Doctor " is from the Latin meaning " teacher " ( much like " doctrine , " or much as " docent " for either similar positions overseas or the post of museum guide domestically ) , the premise being that those skilled in actual medicine ( and not the guesswork that had prevailed for the millennia before ) were now considered expert enough to guide or instruct others . It had actually been used for non-medical fields for centuries earlier . The twist , of course , is that we now use the title in a " social context " only for those in the Johnny-come-lately field of medicine , perhaps because of the obvious embarrassment that might arise when someone styling themselves " Doctor " is rushed to a trauma scene at a party and asked to save someone 's life ; the need to distinguish those individuals possessing such skills has trumped the prestige factor for all those in other worthy disciplines . As someone who pursued both for a time , I can say : my job is important , even critical , but it ai n't lifesaving .
It is commonly called Kinect V1 and V2 . In the research community , it is widely accepted , just because it is their name , <URL> here . Note that it is not the true name , as you stated . The best thing I could think of , is to highlight at the beginning of your article ( or in the part you spoke about Kinect ) that Kinect V1 refers to Kinect for XBox 360 and Kinect V2 refers to Kinect for XBox One ( note there is a standalone version for Windows ) .
From what I have observed , having a specific deadline for abstracts is used for two main reasons : having a rough idea of the number of submissions and organise a bidding for the reviewers . Having the number of submissions can help deciding of a possible deadline extension and possible to " recruit " more PC members or reviewers if the number largely exceeds the expectation . Organising a bidding based on the abstract allow the PC members to indicate their preference for each paper ( e.g. , I want to review this paper , I could review this paper , I could n't review this paper ) , so that when the actual papers arrive , the distribution is already organised .
The main difference is that research MS degrees require a thesis , which describes the student 's research , while professional/taught MS degrees do not . There are several secondary differences as well . Professional/taught MS programs are cash cows ; their enrollments are generally higher , their admissions criteria are generally lower , they almost never offer financial support , and students are generally treated like cattle . Research MS programs generally have smaller enrollment , because the students require more individual attention , and therefore higher admission standards ; some research MS programs offer financial support in the form of assistantships or even fellowships . In many departments , there is an easy transition from a research MS program into the PhD program ; transitioning from a professional/taught MS program into a PhD program is almost impossible . Of course , these answers are very crude approximations . The actual difference will vary significantly between departments .
Here is one more possible reason : the students may be working so much " on the side " that they need more semesters to complete all of the necessary courses . Not at all universities are students supervised thoroughly or progress is checked regularly , so that working part time and studying part time is possible even when not explicitly studying for a part-time degree . It is not difficult to imagine that when working 50 % of your time and studying 50 % of the time , it takes twice as long to complete the course of study . Obviously , it depends on the rules and regulations of the university and/or course of study whether this is a possible explanation . As an example , my undergrad course allowed this , and the average duration of study was 85 % above the normal duration of study , mainly because so many students studied while working . It was a STEM course . I know of on case where the student actually spent 2/3 of the time working and 1/3 of the time studying .
There are several answers here . They quite probably already do so ( eg if a claimed affiliation to a prestigious institution looks too good to be true , or unlikely given other information , or a reviewer says " hey , wait ... " ) , but on an informal and ad-hoc basis , rather than doing it for the 99 % of unremarkable cases . They usually do n't need to . Most submitters will provide an institutional email address , which is itself a fairly good indication that you are affiliated with that institution . ( In the old days , you might have used letterhead - same sort of thing ) Beyond this , defining " credentials " would be complex . Would you need them to point to an institutional webpage with their name on ? Submit a payslip ? Produce a certificate of employment ? ( And what would you define as " counting " for affiliation ? ) Finally ( and most importantly ) most of the publishing system is based on trust . The publisher trusts you to have actually carried out the experiments , and to have reported them honestly and comprehensively . They trust you not to have plagarised , or committed ethical breaches , or misrepresented other researchers . They may ask you to sign something to certify you 've done all these things correctly , but they wo n't ask for evidence that someone else has verified you did them . If they 're willing to take your word on the actual content of your science , why be particularly distrustful of your affiliation ?
Although I understand what you are getting at , I would like to say that stubbornness is perhaps not a good trait for a scientist . My dictionary provides the following : Stubborn : Having or showing dogged determination not to change one 's attitude or position on something , esp . in spite of good arguments or reasons . Clearly a scientist needs doggedness and stamina to endure long and hard experiments , field work , often monotonous work on data and theory , as well as other issues met in the workplace . To be able to change footing in light of new evidence is , however , an important trait . So being stubborn , in the sense of the definition , would be very counter productive in our effort to have science progress . Persistence and perseverance are perhaps synonyms that better reflect the traits you aim for . So , yes it is important to be able to endure . Being a scientist is usually based on a deep appreciation for the subject and the research , which is why it is possible to endure the pressures that exist . It is a bit like being a top athlete , very few will excel without a deep love for what they do . As soon as you lose the drive it is difficult to continue because of the demands . Maintaining the drive is therefore a very important aspect of academia and the workplace in which you act .
In Germany , professorships and doctorates are considered to be " legal " titles , and have special status not accorded to other degrees and professions . In particular , university professors in Germany are Beamter ( appointed civil servants ) , which places them in a relatively small class of government employees . It is to be noted that a professor in a German university can be called " Herr Professor " or " Frau Professor " only so long as he or she is actively working as a professor ; following retirement or leaving the university profession , it is technically not permitted to use the title . Thus , in this sense , the appellation " Professor " is legally part of someone 's name , and should therefore be used in formal greetings and salutations . ( This can sometimes be annoying -- for example , in a physician 's waiting room , you can hear them call for " Frau Professor Schmidt ! " )
By the way , I have heard your last name pronounced a few different ways and I want to make sure I get it right . Can you teach me the correct way to pronounce it ?
Ir . means a masters degree in Engineering . source : Belgian Education :) I added a " reference " . This Prof. Dr. Ir . received a M.Sc . degree in electrical engineering and the Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven ( K.U.Leuven ) , Belgium Also , from wikipedia : Belgium In Belgium , there are two types of engineering degrees : <URL>
Many universities will publish statistics on how many of their graduates are employed or in further education within X months after graduating . If you 're only concerned about getting a job , then that 's probably your best source of information . That said , in the end it depends on you . People get jobs with crappy degrees and fail to get jobs with really good degrees . Whether you 'll be able to get a job in your chosen field will depend on what exactly you do for your degree . A good opportunity for improving your chances of getting a job after you graduate is to do an internship while you 're at university . Many universities have job centres or similar that can help you with that .
There are universities and research centers in Europe who accepts students without a masters degree , but they would require to take full credits of masters and to complete modules , before or while the research is being conducted . Therefore you might want to get in touch of those universities . Here are a few which I know of : <URL> <URL> Most of the time you need to show that you have enough skills with your previous experiences , publications , the letter of application/statement of purpose . An interview may follow where you will be asked about your work and the domain of work in which you have applied .
It depends on the university and the country . In England , a PhD is typically awarded for a thesis and oral examination of the thesis , usually followed by implementation of corrections to the thesis , the requirements for which are specified during or just after the oral exam . It 's often done soon after a Masters , which is done soon after a Bachelors , so a fairly large proportion of PhDs are awarded at the start of one 's academic career . Whereas a DSc is awarded for a portfolio of work , ( in some cases submitted together with an over-arching critique of that portfolio ) , and thus is more likely to be awarded later in an academic 's career . Nominally , a PhD is a doctorate in philosophy , but is typically awarded for pretty much any subject . There are some who argue that philosophy of knowledge always form part of these studies , regardless of the subject . I occasionally use this line to try to inspire students , myself . A DSc is a doctorate in science , and is not awarded for literature , law , divinity , or music , each of which has its own dedicated higher doctorate . The DSc is a higher doctorate than a PhD , in England . In some other countries , they 're equivalent . Both get the honorific title doctor .
Such situations are not uncommon in academia . I would caution you against trying to get this person back as a reviewer , even though you have signed papers from 4 years ago . Simply respect that person 's decision to back out , thank her or she for their time thus far , and invest your energies finding somebody that will serve as a reviewer so you can graduate . Perhaps this sounds like rather odd advice . Just put yourself in the shoes of a person who does n't want to serve as a reviewer but is subsequently forced to do so . You are at risk of getting a very unfavorable review , and the 40 days could become much longer . You have plenty of time to get somebody on board , and you will certainly encounter situations in your future career that are far more egregious .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
The field of game design and development is relatively new and specialized . The best potential employers are quite likely to know the reputations of institutions that offer suitable degrees . Therefore , I would say that the reputation of the institution is probably more important than either the exact degree title or the accrediting agency . You probably have a small number of target employers in mind . Try to find out where their employees went to school .
Here are the concerns I would have : Is this person seriously going to spend another N-years getting a second doctoral degree , and then go seek a postdoctoral position before pursuing the job they presumably want to have ? If so , what is this going to do to their career , and do I want to be party to that ? How did this person get all the way through a PhD in something other than their " ultimate interest " ? Do they know what their " ultimate interest " is now ? Did they try to switch fields mid-PhD , or get some credentializing in the field they wanted to be in . If so , how much ? If not , why not ? Do I think this person has strong prospects in this field ? They 've failed to get a postdoc - was this the result of just a small number of applications , or genuinely a problem . Again , if their postdoc application was weak , do I think it could be salvaged ?
By " I see things like , " I assume you mean " the options are , " i.e. , the list of options you have given is exhaustive . I shall also assume that you are an engineering student , with a degree at " Bachelor of science " level and you are currently studying at " Master 's of science " level . The question about academic background is looking for your highest qualification , so I would list " master 's of science . " You could call the university to confirm ! EDIT . I do not agree with <URL> remark that a UK MEng degree is provided in lieu of a Bachelor 's and has the same study length : UK BEng degrees are typically three years , whereas UK MEng degrees are typically four years . It is possible that <URL> is attempting to compare Bachelor 's degrees between different countries .
I have half french kids and I have spent a lot of my life in France and in the Midwest . The answer is easy - culture . Americans love recognizing everything . Participation awards , so many awards that anyone that is pretty good at something will surely get one . My 4th grader at the time got a ribbon for 4th place in a race and his French grandmother said , " Why ? " She did n't even understand it . In France if you win something you are really at the top of your game and its a big deal . They generally do n't placate to keeping self-esteem high , even with children . Things are more regulated , committees generally mean something and there is n't a lot of duplication . Now I see this slowly changing in France over the years and it becoming more westernized . Your answer is just , different culture . England is a bit the same as America except they seem to have accreditation companies and societies that also allow you to " pay " for an award .
I do n't think you need to be too formal here . Just include whatever information you believe is relevant , for example : Master 's Thesis : " Topic " , at University X , supervised by Prof. Y. Theses are different from regular publications anyway .
end question
start question
Do you acknowledge someone mentioned in your paper/presentation that is in the audience ?
If you 're merely referring to someone 's work who you do n't know very well or have n't worked with , I would n't . If they are someone who is well known then it 's likely that people will recognise that they are in the audience and that you are referencing their work . If it is someone you have worked with or someone in your lab , then they usually get a shoutout . For example , a PI presenting work that is primarily done by a grad student or postdoc is likely to point this out and point out the person if they are in the audience . The reason for this is that it is beneficial to that person to be recognised . It encourages others to talk to/network with them because of the work they 've done .
Usually you apply for these types of bottom - and mid-tier positions through the human resources ( HR ) departments of the universities . This is the same in the UK or the USA . If you search on the HR website , they will give jobs and the requirements for those jobs . For example , the first example below is a job posting that I pulled from the University of Illinois HR department 's website . You will note that it requires a high-school degree or GED . This is rather typical . When I last hired a staff person , we required an Associates degree or equivalent work experience . The " equivalent work experience " allows us to hire people without an AA degree if we feel that they have enough skills even without the credentials . The second example below is from Cambridge University in the UK . It notes that you must have at least A levels for this position . Note that many universities in the USA have union contracts for their clerical and technical staff . This makes applying for jobs as an outsider very difficult because the union contracts usually stipulate that jobs are first filled from job pool candidates ( i.e. , union members ) . This may likely be true for the UK as well .
Many ( most ? ) academic papers include a brief acknowledgment section somewhere ( the location is not standard ) . In this section it is frequent to acknowledge help by the referees . One can equally well acknowledge comments by referees of previous versions of the paper . For the sake of clarity it seems best to mention that one is thanking the referee of the previous version . E.g. if I were refereeing the new version , reading We are grateful for the help provided by the referee . is ambiguous : does this refer to a previous referee , or am I being thanked in advance for my help ? ( That 's not so good . ) Clearer would be something like This version of the paper takes into account helpful comments provided by the ( or " a " ) referee of a previous version . If the paper gets accepted in the second journal , one could change to something like We are grateful for helpful comments from multiple referees on several versions of the paper . Is it academically necessary ? I 'm not sure it 's ever strictly necessary to acknowledge an anonymous referee -- it seems to me that a situation in which it 's vitally necessary to acknowledge someone is a situation in which an anonymous acknowledgment would be insufficient . ( Moreover , the way I have always understood it is that referee comments are " being given " to the authors of the paper . ) If you feel that a referee 's contributions merit coauthorship , ( take a deep breath first ; this opens a can of worms ) you should discuss that with the editor . However , if you got direct intellectual help from the referee and not just helpful remarks -- i.e. , if the referee contributed some part of the intellectual content of the paper -- then I would certainly recommend documenting that rather than assuming the credit for yourself .
From your comments it sounds like a Setup-to-fail syndrome . <URL> The Wiki article is a bit iffy , but it basically means that he somewhat has low expectations of your performance after some incident . Thereby , when something happens he assumes is your fault because he has low expectations nevertheless . Is usually a toxic relationship because is self fulfilling ( you 'll end up making mistakes , because he wants to ) and self reinforcing ( the mistake you just did helps him reinforce the idea that you 'll make more ) . Is a vicious circle that has to be addressed by both you and your boss ( PI , manager , etc ) . But is usually a good idea to have some other people on your side . Ultimately , if he is unwilling to change , it is better for you to leave for a less toxic environment .
What do you want to do with your life ? University is one way of getting to some of the answers . Trade school or apprenticing is another , if you think that 's closer to what you want to spend your life doing . It 's also legitimate to say you do n't know yet -- in which case you need to decide whether starting classes would help you decide what interests you , or if doing something else for a year makes more sense . I knew what I wanted to study ( or thought I did ; turns out I was close but not on the mark ) , but even so I decided to take a year off before college ; I needed a bit of maturation time , and to switch from being the youngest in the class to being one of the older kids , for my own comfort . Spent the year doing volunteer work in a hospital ( electronic repair , " biomedical engineering " ) , which was certainly educational in the general sense , helped build my self confidence , and may actually have helped my college application stand out from others . " ... There are nine and sixty ways / of constructing tribal lays , / And every single one of them is right ! " -- Kipling
You could mention the people with whom you discussed in the acknowledgements " thanks X and Y for helpful / ... discussions " and cite the conference in the text . To cite it in the correct style , I would recomment that you contact the editorial office and ask . I once asked about the style of referencing a thesis and recieved an answer very fast , so this is the safest way in my opinion .
The quick answer might be to look up the CV of a CERN researcher ... From outside physics , when compiling institutional publication lists , I 've occasionally dealt with a 100 + author entry ( often a major report rather than a paper , but the same problem holds ) . As our motive for listing this is to note the local author ( s ) , it 's a similar situation to the CV . In this case , I tend to do something like : Able , J. , Anderson , M. , Archer , C. , [ and 78 others , including Smith , Q. ] ( 2015 ) A very tedious paper , J. Irrep . Res . 243 ( 54 ) or Able , J. , Anderson , M. , Archer , C. , [ et al , including Smith , Q. ] ( 2015 ) A very tedious paper , J. Irrep . Res . 243 ( 54 ) where Q. Smith is the local author we care about . It 's probably not a very theoretically sound citation style , but it seems to work !
From an ethical point of view , you must cite your original source appropriately . Clearly indicate when you are using ideas , words , or figures from another work by citing the source when you use something verbatim ( typically by putting it in quotation marks or blockquotes ) As long as you attribute your sources properly , there is n't really an ethical problem with excessive use of a source . From a legal perspective , it can be trickier . In summary , Copying large amounts of text verbatim : may violate copyright Copying small amounts of text verbatim , for academic purposes : typically allowed under <URL> , though like everything legal , this varies by jurisdiction Paraphrasing text : does not violate copyright . The intellectual content of a paper is not subject to copyright ( as opposed to the words used to present it , which are ) . Reusing figures : may violate copyright . Check the policy of the source 's publisher . From a " best practices " standpoint , work that involves an excessive amount of paraphrasing is often lacking original intellectual content . Even if your work is expository , you 're supposed to be adding some value for the reader , not just stating the content of the original source in other words . So be careful of this , too :)
I find that grad students always wait too long to ask for help , either out of fear of looking " stupid " , or out of inexperience , or out of a misplaced sense of stubbornness . If you 've spent a few weeks on something and you 're thoroughly stuck , then you should absolutely ask someone ( advisor , other students , anyone with knowledge ) . You 'd be surprised at how often you were merely barking up the wrong tree , or just did n't know a very important fact or reference , or just had to reformulate the question differently . All of this takes experience , and that 's what an advisor is supposed to provide .
If it is a technical talk on a particular library then yes , code is appropriate , and in some cases - even recommended ( as opposed to hand waving ) . But : keep it readable ( big font , syntax highlighting , reasonable variable names ) , keep it short ( examples as minimal as possible ) , give enough time to read and understand it . Some examples how it is being done : <URL> or for async JS : <URL> .
It depends on the particular conference and the field . In computer science ( where the main publication venue is conferences ) , many conferences divide the published papers into " talks " and " posters " ( eg NIPS , AISTATS , ... ) , and there 's no difference in terms of publication . In most other fields , however , acceptance at a conference means nothing , and you have to get published in a journal . TL ; DR : ask your advisor .
There are many ways to build PhD committee , which depend on the local system ( country , etc. ) and your field . But , here are some general principles that should apply broadly . You need to bring a mix of highly competent yet diverse evaluators , with not too much proximity to yourself or your advisor lest it be thought that you are cherry-picking a partial ( friendly ) jury for your work . Regarding your questions : Is it more important that your advisor already know your committee members or that you do I do n't think it 's a very important part of the decision-making . Certainly , you do n't want the advisor 's best friend ( or yours ! ) , that could make people think you 're scared of unbiased questioning . Is it better to get someone in your discipline or someone doing more related work Here 's one of the factors that play a very important part , for me , in picking committee members . First , all members need to be able to have a good understanding of your work . However , it is good that not all of them are precisely expert in particular field of expertise . It helps to have people from other ( related ) fields , because they will bring a different perspective , and give you the opportunity to highlight not only the very technical details of your work but also its significance for other fields . is the dissertation process supposed to be a chance for you to win people over to your side ? No . It 's good to bring people who do n't necessarily agree with you on everything , but you should also avoid as committee members anyone overly critical of your approach of things , unless you know them well and they can keep it under control and agree to disagree . Otherwise , you risk that person actually coming to your defense to win you over . I have seen defenses being " derailed " ( though all ended well ) by a committee member who was overly argumentative , and it was n't a nice experience for anybody involved .
If research is a substantive part of the jobs you are applying for , then you should be wary of asking your Master 's supervisor for a letter . It could work out OK , but there 's a serious risk . The issue is that hiring committees want information about your current research , rather than what you did for your Master 's degree . If your Master 's supervisor has read some of your recent work and is capable of discussing and evaluating it in detail , then it will be a useful recommendation . However , you do n't want a letter that focuses on the past and just includes a brief paragraph saying " And the Ph.D. research seems to have gone well , but I do n't really know anything about it . " That could actually hurt your case by suggesting that you could n't find three people who understand and think highly of your more recent work . A strong letter that focuses on the past is certainly better than a weak letter , so it could be your best option . You might also talk about this issue with your Master 's supervisor , and see how compelling and up to date a letter she thinks she can provide . If she has read or wants to read your recent work , then that 's great ; if she is hesitant about the idea of writing a letter , then I would ask someone else .
You say that your work on methods is uninteresting , but that you believe the results to be valuable . That 's great ! You should write a paper about the results ! Sometimes people feel like the amount of manuscript text they produce for each aspect of their work should be proportional to the time and energy put into that aspect , e.g. , if you spent 3/4 of your time working on the methods , then your text should be approximately 3/4 about the methods . That is incorrect . The amount of space something takes up in the text should be proportional to how interesting it is to the reader . Sometimes you have to put in a lot of work on something that is very simple to explain , and that 's OK . Focus on the bits that will be interesting to the reader , and instead tell your friends the stories of how long and hard you worked on the " uninteresting " bits to get there .
In my experience , good primary investigators are always rather unbalanced human beings in one way or another . If you are n't intensively passionate about something closely connected to the research process , then you ca n't last , because so much of leading research involves shaping your own agenda . That said , you can still be doing work in research , even at a Ph.D. level or beyond , without having such independence and drive , but instead being a " super-technician " following somebody else 's agenda and leadership . The scientific ideal holds that every scientist should be of the primary investigator type , and Ph.D. programs are typically designed to select for and cultivate this . That said , in practice it depends a lot on the group that you are in . Some professors expect their students to develop their own research agendas very strongly , others are ( whether they admit it or even realize it ) more looking for good technicians to execute on their grants , and a Ph.D. is more of a byproduct . We do n't really like to admit this as a community , but with the current market structure of academia , we actually need to have the second type of education and people as well . Look at it from the perspective of simple flux balance analysis : the rate of Ph.D. students entering programs is far higher than the rate at which primary investigators retire or die . If every Ph.D. student either ultimately ends up as a primary investigator or a " failure , " then it means most Ph.D. students are failures . But I do n't think that is actually the case : people who are n't hyper-passionate to the point where it distorts their lives can still succeed just fine in a Ph.D. program and at research , they just are likely to take one of the other tracks besides being a professor or other form of PI . That said , even if you do n't end up going the harrowing road of PI-ship , research work is very hard , and there are a lot of easier and/or more financially rewarding ways to make a living . To get a Ph.D. , you need at least enough passion for the subject to find more value in this difficult and low-paid path than in any of your alternatives .
If you 're merely referring to someone 's work who you do n't know very well or have n't worked with , I would n't . If they are someone who is well known then it 's likely that people will recognise that they are in the audience and that you are referencing their work . If it is someone you have worked with or someone in your lab , then they usually get a shoutout . For example , a PI presenting work that is primarily done by a grad student or postdoc is likely to point this out and point out the person if they are in the audience . The reason for this is that it is beneficial to that person to be recognised . It encourages others to talk to/network with them because of the work they 've done .
It is a thesis . From what you 've written , your hypothesis is that you can tailor the [ information-systems ] management theory for it to be useful under economic constraints to a real specific problem You might also be doing exploratory research , or blue-skies research , where you do n't start with a research question , you start with a direction , subject or area , and go wandering off looking for interesting problems .
Rtisan is probably right about a local conference carrying somewhat less weight and prestige on a CV . However , there are some other benefits of presenting at a local conference : It 's usually free . With the travel money you save , you can attend another conference far away later on . Now you have two conference talks on your CV instead of just one . ( In other words , " present locally " versus " present far away " is probably a false dichotomy . Even if the local conference conflicts with a faraway conference , there is very likely another faraway conference in the near future that 's just as good . And if the conflicting faraway conference is , like , the one and only awesomest conference in your field , then the organizers of your local conference probably should n't have scheduled theirs to conflict with it . ) Less travel : you get to save a day or two of travel time , sleep in your own bed , see your family , etc. . This may make the conference much more relaxing . Being the attraction : People may be saying to themselves : " Hey , there 's a conference at Podunk University . I think that 's where gman works , so I 'm sure he 'll be there . I was just reading his paper and it will be great to hear his talk and ask him questions . " Networking : as a local at a conference , people are more likely to want to talk to you . For instance , " Hey gman , you live here , can you recommend a good restaurant in town ? Would you like to join us for dinner ? " The opportunity to talk to other researchers informally can be very valuable to a career . Even fielding mundane questions like " How do I connect to the wifi ? Where is Room NNN ? Can you help me turn on the projector ? " can start good conversations . ( Make sure you know the answers to these questions ! ) It can be harder to initiate interactions like this when you are a stranger in a strange city . Help organize : Try to join the organizing committee , or at least offer to help them out . Organizing a local conference is a lot of work , and by contributing to this you will gain the appreciation of your colleagues . It 's also valuable experience , and " conference co-organizer " is a nice line to have on a CV . Finally , conference organizers tend to have more contact with the visiting participants , contributing to Networking as above .
You do n't need to include any of the proposed titles in your presentation . They all come across as stilted and affected , and are entirely unnecessary . Instead , if this is a public presentation , treat it as you would any other such presentation : indicate the title of your talk as you normally would have it , and so on . If this is the " private " presentation to the faculty , then you should give it a title representing your current and future research interests . You do n't need to say " what " the presentation is for -- again , the location of the talk should be sufficient .
It depends on your sentence construction . Use the past tense when talking about what Mendel did , since he did it 150 years ago ; use the present tense when talking about what the paper says , since the paper still says that now . For example , " Mendel did experiments on pea plants . His paper describes the results . "
end question
start question
How can I create a sense of community in a research group ?
Enthusiasm : Students in a lab should get the feeling that the professor is someone who shows as much interest and puts in as much hard work in the project as themselves . The professor may have a lot of credentials and experience , but his enthusiasm level must be the same as that of his students . Emotional management : Sometime there could be students who lose their focus on research ; at others , there could be slight rifts and differences in opinion between the professor and student because of their approach to the problem . There may also be problems within the students which could be distasteful . The professor must be mindful of these , try his best to ameliorate the situation and not let things go out of hand . Without getting smarmily personal , the professor must manage his lab as though it were his second family . Ensuring good placement : Placement is not an indicator of research , but in reality , people use this record to gauge a lab 's quality . The professor must build contacts and be willing to counsel and recommend their students to good places ( each according to his ability , etc ) . Good Results : The most important point . If students must feel a " sense of achievement from simply being part of the lab " , then the output from the lab should be sensational . This involves a lot of man-management ; knowing what each student is good at and how to get the best out of each one of them . Finally , though it may sound cliched , hard work is the key to good results .
I think 3 published papers in reputable journals ( though you do not say which precisely ) should more than enough to get you in a PhD program . Dome people are happy to get as much with their PhD work . But that may depend on the field . However , publishing twice the same result , even with some cosmetic changes , is a good way not to get accepted for a PhD program , or for an academic position . People publish far too much , and waste each other 's time . We have to strive for quality , not quantity . Now , you did not specify you field , and thing may somewhat differ according to scientific field . In some fields , conferences are considered publications , sometimes harder on selection than ( some ) journals . In other fields , it is more acceptable to republish in conferences as conference papers play a minor role and are more intended as topics for meeting with colleagues , and giving introduction to your work . The former will have more importance for your publication list , but is more demanding on originality . The right thing to do , that will avoid any problem , bcause they will be dealt with by the program committee of the conference , is to be extremely clear as to what is already published , to make it visible and to have in the references your previous relevant publications ( as well as those of other people ) , whether already accepted or only submitted . Then the program committee will let you know whether your submission is appropriate or not . But do not abuse relying on the program committee , they have considerable work to do . And always be very careful when using twice the same research results .
Quick and dirty version : Google Scholar Type-in the DOI and read the citation count on the field " Cited by " . Google Scholar does not filter for quality , so the citation count will include self-published papers , fake publications , etc. . Expect some noise . Better version : Web of Science Ask your institution 's librarian how you can access the Web of Science database and how to use it to retrieve the data that you need . That might require you to walk in daylight to the physical location of your library . Many survived that journey .
The challenge here is seems to be to ensure that if the reviewers do stumble across your thesis , then the failure mode will be penetrating blinding rather than accusations of plagiarism . It is my belief that with an " extract " paper like this , the thesis should be cited in any case . In most cases , there will be some connection to other portions of the thesis that could motivate such a citation ( e.g. , a motivation or an application ) . I also think that it is good to explicitly acknowledge the relationship to the thesis , e.g. , " This manuscript is based on work also presented in [ cite ] " , though the customs of your field may differ . Then you can appropriately blind the citation to the thesis , e.g. , " Ph.D. thesis , blinded for review . " This makes the relationship clear without violating blinding . At that point , you are preserving blinding to the best of your ability , and while a reviewer can certainly try to penetrate blinding if they want , you certainly wo n't run into any problems with misunderstanding about plagiarism .
Certainly Yes . There are two ways of earning money from publication , 1 - Indirect as @seteropere explains by improving your visibility and getting higher chance of being recruited in higher quality institute with higher payment . 2 - Direct : In many academic or even industrial institutes , researchers are being paid and are bound to perform research and publish paper in certain journals or conferences ( mostly journal ) . If they fail , either they will be fired or will be punished . In order to avoid such experience , many are hiddenly searching for an opportunity to buy a paper in high price . Moreover , there are some universities that pay incentive to publish in journals ( like US$ 2000 ) for each paper published . For instance , I know several university that need to improve their world ranking via publication and hence pay good money to publish in high quality journals . But , selling or buying paper is considered unethical because we believe research is something we can not buy . If we can buy research , it will not be research and will be project .
First off , if the professor is reluctant to have you talk to members of the group , this is a huge red flag . When you visit , ask if you can sit in on lab meetings or seminars ( some group setting ) and observe the dynamic . Does everyone seem engaged and happy to be there ? Is the mood collaborative and friendly , or authoritarian ? Basically , put yourself there and ask yourself if you 'd be comfortable . Ask the professor about their advising style and philosophy . Some like to be very involved , some want their students to be independent . Make sure their answer works for you . Most important one , in my opinion : contact a few of the other students independently , tell them you are coming to visit , and offer to take them out for a coffee or beer . This is an opportunity to ask them , in a relaxed non-work setting , about what they like and do n't like about working in the lab . Do not tell the professor what the students are thinking , in any case .
Short Answer Do n't be too picky at first , learn about others ' work ; try to come up with some problem < - > solution pairs ; and then you shall find your own path ; when writing them down . Longer Answer Fun Fact : Publishable results are based on published results and some more . You need to do ' the some more ' part , and know the ' published results ' . So : 1 . High Rank Publications and their citations : Find the best publications in the area of your work , and see how they solve the problems and how the present their results and who they cited ; and read and learn them as well . 2 . Narrow Down More and More When Writing Down : Ok , now after reading some papers/journals/books , you want to write something . Here we do the following : 2.1 Problem and Solution ( Potential ) : You might ask what problem I want to work on ? Well the one you know how to solve ! I might go and write a code generator and say : " well , it is fast and ' efficient ' " . How do I know ? Well I do n't know ! I need to check it with others . So , we go to the next phase : 2.2 Evaluation and Background Checks : You start evaluation of your work by others ' approach ( and write about it ) . Must likely your approach is not good enough , so you go back to he first step and update this one . 2.3 Introduction and Evaluation Now you know what you are talking about , you write the introduction and conclusion about it . Then Boom ! you have a paper , that could be published . Find a conference/journal and hope for the best !
If you know you 're going to continue on to a PhD , then there is no need to pick up a MSc , unless a specific program you 're interested in requires you to acquire the MSc before continuing on to a PhD . Some people want to have the flexibility that comes with acquiring a MSc , but this is a matter of personal interest , rather than a requirement . The danger is , of course , that if you decide to stop your PhD studies , then you run the risk of having worked for several years without any degree at all .
Contrary to intuition , it is often inappropriate to try to cite well-known and foundational material to its original source . The reason is that you did not actually learn the material in its original form but instead from some modern reinterpretation of that material ( e.g. , in a standard textbook ) . To see why , try reading the original for something like <URL> . First of all , it 's in Latin . Even if you get a translation , however , you 'll find that the notation is strange and difficult to comprehend . That is because even though the fundaments of Newtonian physics have not changed in the centuries since it was discovered , we have improved greatly in our ability to understand and teach the material , as well as in how we integrate it with other material . In short : if it 's textbook material , it is most honest to cite a textbook as your source . Two modifying notes , however : It does n't have to be the textbook that you personally learned from -- any good presentation will do . You only need to cite a textbook if some of your audience may be unfamiliar with the material . In a computer science paper , the <URL> needs no citation ; in an interdisciplinary paper expected to be read by e.g. , economists or biologists , it does need a citation .
However my understanding is that funding for UK universities comes almost entirely from tuition fees and grant income . This is incorrect . Tuition of UK students is subsidised ( to varying amounts in the constituent countries of the UK ) . In the most extreme case , Scottish students pay no tuition at universities in Scotland . If you compare ' home ' fees with international fees at any public university , you will see that UK and EU students pay substantially less than international students ( although it is not the case that the UK government tops up the UK tuition fees to the amount paid by an international student ) . Sheffield University has <URL> on how exactly this funding works . In particular , student tuition <URL> , which vary depending on the course . This page appears to date from before the new variable fee regime in England , so the numbers and formulae may be out of date . But the funding mechanism subsidises the clinical years of medical , dental and veterinary students the most , then lab based courses and the non-clinical years of the medical courses , then courses with some lab or fieldwork , and then everything else . Private universities do not receive this funding .
I find this question very interesting but difficult to tackle . It will be difficult to provide specific answers to a general hypothetical situation since one is left with too many unknowns . First , one could wonder what the policies at the university are like ? Do they have a panel for scientific fraud , misconduct etc. ? Are there guidelines in place ? Then , we deal with persons and each situation is unique . People cheat for a variety of reasons from fear and feelings of inferiority and inadequacy , through stress and peer pressure to the narcissistic or psychopathic . Thirdly , the severeity of the problem is on a continuous scale and the response depends where you are on that scale . This also holds for the reverse problem , what works in one place may not work in another for these reasons . In your question you state you wish to keep harmony but in essence the fact that " you " are uneasy with someones less than adequate research methods is already disharmony . So regardless if you do or do not do anything , there will be disharmony , either you will feel bad or someone else will . So there is no painless way out . As for the case . I can see that you describe a sliding scale for what I would call poor science ( overinterpreting results ) to actual falsification of results . In the latter case , it is clear , one " must " pursue the problem . How this is done will vary but I am sure there are guidelines in place either at the university level or at a national level ( on my home turf the national science foundation provides such services ) . In the case of someone producing poor science by either , for example , being too lazy to do the work or by jumping to conclusions , there can be only one way forward : to try to confront the person and have open discussions around the science ( or lack thereof ) to bring out the problem in the open . It may be possible to start a discussion group where you read and discuss each others manuscripts . Such discussions are useful under any circumstances to help improve the manuscript and spot problems before submitting to a journal . Under such circumstances the problems can be discussed ( if they become solved is a different matter ) . My sense is that a person who is aware of their shortcomings is not generally fond of talking about them so you may end up having these discussions with everyone but the one you want to target .
You can download the latex sources of the vast majority of ( actually almost all ) math preprints posted to arXiv . Just go to the abstract page of your favorite math paper and click on " Other formats " under " Download . " There you can find the link to the source file in latex as long as the author ( s ) uploaded it and complied by arXiv 's latex engine ( which pretty much everyone does ) . I think reading the actual sources of nicely typeset papers you like is a very effective way to learn how to latex . For example , here 's the abstract page of my latest preprint : <URL> and its source is here : <URL> To get the latex file I submitted , click " Download source " near the bottom right . The file is in compressed format . But as the arXiv page says , your browser may uncompress the file . My Google Chrome for Mac does this , so what I actually get by clicking the download link is a latex file , which is named " 1409.2559 v4 " with no extension . If your browser behaves the same way , you can simply rename the file to attach " . tex " at the end if the extension is important .
Ask for the code . Please do , however , explain why you want it and what you intend to use it for . Personally , I would be quite happy if someone contacted me about my research , and would try to give all the necessary tools to recreate my data . Especially so if I am not currently working on a follow up piece . That said , I 've asked for parameters , codes , procedures etc. several times from the authors when the description in a paper has been vague . I 've had a lot of different responses : Some have plain ignored me , others have given me everything I asked for , and yet others have only obliged when I 've suggested that I might be willing to put them as co-authors if I built upon their code in a way that leads to a publication . Finally , some have refused my request . This has happened for a number of reasons , for example those discussed in <URL> . If you ask for code and say that you just want to verify some of the conclusions of the authors or use it as a reference for your own implementation , you can most typically expect a refusal or no reply . This , at least , is the experience I 've had .
This depends on the customs of the field and the venue . I will answer based upon my experience from an HCI-related subfield of CS : Conferences usually have some requirement of novelty for published works . Therefore , if a paper associated with the poster already appeared in some proceedings of the first conference , you might not fulfil this requirement . First , however , some different cases might apply : If the poster was not " formally published " ( i.e. did not appear as a ( short ) paper in any kind of proceedings ) , you should be good to go . If the poster was supposed to be " formally published " , but the conference organizers never got around to setting up the proceedings of the poster session , you 're in a bit of an inconvenient situation . Your work is not published in a way that it can be cited ( well , it can , but it does n't look as verifiable as other papers and is not archived by any publisher ) , but it has been presented . You may want to contact the conference organizers in this case whether publishing your work again is ok , or else you may want to wrap your work in something larger ( i.e. present something new , but reiterate the points from the poster as a part of the exposition ) . Even if your poster was published in some kind of proceedings , there may be some options : Posters are often allowed to present work in progress . If your poster ( and the connected paper ) was presented in a way to present work in progress , your new conference paper might indeed present the final state of whatever you devised . This can essentially match the content of your poster , but provide more details ( see also below ) . Even if the poster presented final results , the term " results " seems to be seen in a very wide sense at least in my fields , possibly in others . A full conference paper provides much more space than a poster paper , and on the poster , you probably presented different ( more visual ) things than you would in text . As such , you can shift the focus of your conference paper compared to the poster ; where the poster focused on the results , the conference paper might discuss the methods used to obtain the results in depth , including design decisions , citations of similar experiments , a verification of the reliability of your experiments , etc. . This kind of description can be useful for the community and subsequent works , and as such should provide enough new content , despite being based upon the same material as the poster .
You can be interested in Japanese even if you do n't know more than 3 words in Japanese . You can say it is your interest . If they ask about your research experience - then usually a publication is a good indicator that you have some knowledge of the topic .
How to handle this depends on your field . If your field has a notion of first author , then " [ name of first author ] et al. " is appropriate . In fields like math that use alphabetical ordering , I 'd strongly recommend naming all the authors , since " et al. " could be read as diminishing the credit later authors get . I would not be happy if my name disappeared into an " et al. " The sentence " [ last name of author 1 ] , [ last name of author 2 ] , [ last name of author 3 ] and [ last name of author 4 ] provide an interesting insight in their case study ... " sounds fine to me . ( I.e. , the same sentence as in the question , except that I assume " Andria A , Paul S , Derek B and Howard C " are just stand-ins for the actual names , and not actually a proposal for how to format the names . )
One possible answer is that the referee process of a paper is a very professional and time consuming job ( at least I am sure it is in mathematics ) . Therefore it is not fair you submit your paper to several journals and make them to referee your paper by different experts and then you withdraw your paper just because your paper got accepted by another journal .
A research statement is a mix of past and future . When you are talking about the past , you should be honest about the fact that you are not working in isolation -- in fact , that is a good thing . Use " we " or " my collaborators and I " or whatever most accurately describes what actually happened . The other key part of a research statement , however , is your views about the future : what you think is important , what your ambitions are for the future , etc. . Those are unambiguously your own opinions , and should be " I " statements .
If your work is good enough , it deserves to be published . It does n't matter if it is the result of a hobby , undergraduate studies , or your main job as a researcher . Summarizing it to make it fit into the space allotted in a journal or conference proceedings will be a daunting task , ask your advisor for guidance and help .
Use a license . Different open science journals/repositories/etc . allow you to license your publication ( s ) / data/etc . Some allow you to choose a license ; others do not . Others may have different repositories . For example , <URL> gives submitters <URL> : arXiv does not ask that copyright be transferred . However , we require sufficient rights to allow us to distribute submitted articles in perpetuity . In order to submit an article to arXiv , the submitter must either : grant arXiv.org a non-exclusive and irrevocable license to distribute the article , and certify that he/she has the right to grant this license ; certify that the work is available under one of the following Creative Commons licenses and that he/she has the right to assign this license : Creative Commons Attribution license ( CC BY 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-SA 4.0 ) Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license ( CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 ) ; or dedicate the work to the public domain by associating the Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication ( CC0 1.0 ) with the submission . The <URL> journal has <URL> : All papers are made freely available under an open access model immediately on publication at the Royal Society Open Science website and are deposited in PubMed Central on behalf of the author . Under a Creative Commons Attribution License ( CC BY 4.0 ) , authors retain copyright for their article but allow anyone to download , reuse , reprint , modify , distribute , and/or copy articles provided the original authors and source are cited . Once a license is chosen , all that remains is to enforce the license , which is simple enough . License enforcement is up to the holder of the license . If you choose the first of arXiv 's options , then the responsibility is arXiv 's ; if you license the work under one of the Creative Commons licenses , then the responsibility is yours . The enforcer of the license general is not required to enforce it if he/she/it so desires ( see <URL> on Open Source for more information , although that covers the GPL license , which is not applicable here ) . It 's typically in the best interests of the license holder to enforce the license , but there is no requirement . If you want to make sure that the license is enforced , then you would be best off keeping the license yourself .
end question
start question
Can one give a conference talk on a topic already published in a journal ?
This may depend on your field and its customs . In mathematics , it 's totally acceptable and happens constantly . However , if the conference publishes proceedings ( only a few math conferences do ) , you should not publish the same paper in the proceedings . Some people use the proceedings paper to write a " survey article " intended to give the reader a broad view of their work and other related developments in the field , but they would usually not consider this to be an original research paper . In other fields , where a conference talk is considered to be like a publication it its own right , this might not be acceptable .
If the work is extending the original , then all of the original authors should be retained . New authors can certainly be added , however , if they have contributed to the extension .
Reading your background , it seems that everything about the work was correct except for a mistake in translating the algorithm from code to pseudocode . Moreover , you 've done your best at correcting the mistake . Mistakes happen in science , and especially when it comes to the dread pseudocode ( personally , that 's why I always include actual executable code whenever I can ) . From what you 've presented , I think you have every reason to be proud of this work and none to be ashamed . Talk about the work in your applications . Talk about the paper . Talk about the experience in getting it corrected . Anybody who you 'd actually want to work for will see all of these as strengths and not weaknesses .
Summary : Is it ok for you to include the CC By-NC 4.0 image in your paper ? Yes . Is it ok for the paper to go through a particular process at the conference ? Maybe ( see below ) . The answer to this question is not clear-cut . There is no general agreement as to what constitutes " commercial purpose " with CC licenses . There has been much <URL> which has resulted in guidelines , but they are still not black and white . The best approach is to contact the person who owns the copyright for the image and ask them for permission . That is the non-ambiguous approach . If that is not possible , the next best approach would be to discuss the issue with the conference in question . Depending on how aware they are about licensing issues , they may already have an option in place to address your situation . A separate issue is the one of copyright transfer . You are free to transfer your own copyrighted content to another body , such as the conference . But you can not assign another person 's copyright to them . Usually there is a line in the copyright transfer agreement that requires you to specify that you own all of the material being assigned to the new owner . Regardless of the outcome above , you do not own the copyright on the image , even if you have permission to use it . These are separate issues . Once again , you should discuss this issue with the conference organizers . My personal experience has been that many conferences request copyright transfer as a blanket process without realizing that it 's often not necessary . When I have contacted such conferences and told them that my work is published under a CC license and that I will NOT assign the copyright to them but WILL give them permission to use it as they see fit , they usually accept and have no problem with it . Sometimes , however , the conferences get stuck on procedure and try to force a single process that does n't fit modern publishing constraints such as the ones you describe .
I do n't know the relevant laws , which may vary between U.S. states , but I would n't focus on the legal question . Regardless of whether you have the legal right to make a recording , you should not do so without the speaker 's permission . If someone asked me , I would probably give permission , but making a recording without asking feels creepy and inappropriate . If you go around doing this in academia , it 's likely to be viewed as unprofessional , and some speakers will become angry . Even if you ask , people may wonder why you want a recording . ( Are you stalking the speaker ? Are you going to scrutinize the recording to try to find misstatements ? Are you working on competing research and trying to document exactly what was said in your competitor 's talk ? ) If you have a compelling reason to make a recording , it 's worth explaining why . For example , perhaps it could help accommodate certain disabilities . Otherwise , you can certainly ask , but it may come across as a weird request .
In math , FPSAC ( Formal Power Series and Algebraic Combinatorics ) accepts and referees " extended abstracts " for presentations . Presenters are selected based ( in part ) on the quality of these abstracts , and the abstracts appear in a special issue of DMTCS . The submission guidelines for FPSAC state The authors will retain the right of publishing a full version of their work in another journal . Authors who do intend to publish a full version elsewhere should however make sure that their conference contribution is clearly an extended abstract of this full version . Several conference centers publish proceedings of their workshops , for which presenters are asked to submit extended abstracts of their talks after the fact ; for example , both AIM ( the American Institute of Mathematics ) and Oberwolfach ( formally known as Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach ) do this . Again , the norm is that the abstract should be a summary of your presentation , with less detail than the published version . I think that the main answer here is going to be " see if the conference organizers have made a statement , and check with some more senior people as to what the unwritten norms are " .
You asked , Is this normal ? The answer is no , it 's not normal . If two people work on some research together , the " normal " thing is for them to write the paper on it together , and for both to be authors on the paper . It 's possible that you seriously overestimated your contribution to the work and do n't actually deserve authorship . Even in this case , it 's clear you were involved in the research and it 's not normal for your advisor to go ahead and publish it without discussing it with you first . ( When I publish work that involves students whose small contributions do not warrant authorship , I always discuss it with them first . I explain why I do n't think they can be an author , give them a chance to state any disagreement , and also tell them what additional work they could do in order to merit authorship . ) However , the latter ( your contributions did not merit authorship , and your advisor failed to discuss this with you ) is somewhat more forgivable than the former ( your contributions did merit authorship and your advisor published without you anyways ) . ( You do say your advisor is new , and probably inexperienced in advising . ) To answer What do I do ? You should talk to your advisor . This is the only way to really understand which case you are dealing with . You can bring this up in a non-combative way without upsetting your advisor ; for example , you can ask " What do I need to do in order to deserve authorship on future papers ? " This gives your advisor an opening to discuss why he thinks you did n't deserve authorship on the conference paper , and for you to respectfully state your perception of the situation . There may still be a chance for you to get some credit for this work , if you come to agree with his point of view that you did n't do enough to deserve authorship on the conference paper . For example , once you and your advisor have come to an agreement on what it takes to get authorship , you can propose that the two of you work together on an extended version of his conference paper for a journal - on which you will be an author :) Unfortunately , it 's also possible that after this conversation you believe you did deserve authorship , and that your advisor published your joint work without you for no valid reason ( i.e. , committed misconduct ) . In this case , the best advice I can give you is to start looking for another advisor . Finally , the lesson for the future is : talk to your collaborators about authorship early and often .
Should I speak with the professor of the course myself about this ? I 'd recommend telling the student you ca n't do it , and mentioning to the professor that you were asked but turned it down ( to avoid any rumors ) . There are massive issues here : Being paid extra compromises your ability to grade the student 's work . It looks too much like a bribe , and the fact that the student will presumably stop paying you if the tutoring is ineffective ( as measured by grades ) creates an ongoing incentive to grade leniently or supply inappropriate degrees of help . Even if you feel you can avoid bias , the apparent conflict of interest is so strong that other students will almost certainly be upset . Think about it this way . If the extra money does n't matter to you and you have enough time , why not help the student for free ? The fact that money is changing hands at all indicates that the money matters to you ( as it would for most people ) , and that is evidence of dangerous incentives . It could look like you are extorting money from your students . This is the flip side of the first point : in addition to your incentive to offer too much to those who pay extra , you now have an incentive to offer too little to those who do n't hire you as a tutor . Some students always grumble about how unhelpful their TA is ( regardless of the facts ) , and you really do n't want them speculating that your supposed unhelpfulness is intended to pressure them into paying for extra tutoring . I 'd bet this is a major violation of university rules . Of course you 'd have to look into your own case , but I 'd be shocked if any university allowed course staff to accept paid tutoring from their students . I 'd be wary of asking the professor whether this is acceptable . For most questions , asking ca n't hurt , but here the ethically questionable aspects are so strong that asking whether it is OK could look bad . If you ask , you should be sure to make your understanding of the ethical issues clear , to avoid giving the impression that you think it 's fine and just want to check whether the professor has any objections . If the student needs a tutor , I 'd recommend pointing him towards official university channels . For example , perhaps your department maintains a list of students who would be willing to offer tutoring . The important thing is to avoid any appearance of conflicts of interest . Recommending hiring your friend instead of you is better than accepting the job yourself , but it could still look awkward . ( Students might wonder whether you were receiving a commission or kickback from your friend , or whether securing jobs for friends was enough of an incentive to influence your behavior . )
A common approach is to have separate sections in your CV listing academics works by type . I.e. , thesis , peer reviewed journal articles , peer reviewed full text conference proceedings , book chapters , books , conference presentations , etc. . Particularly for early career researchers , it is common to also include journal articles that are under review . These should be presented in a section distinct from published journal articles and should generally indicate what stage of review they are in ( e.g. , submitted , revise and resubmit , etc. ) . It is also often useful to make each section a numbered list , so readers can quickly ascertain how many works you have of each type . Using this approach you would list the journal article under the journal article section of your CV ( or in the " submitted journal articles " section as the case may be ) and list the conference presentation under the conference presentation section of your CV . Typical readers of an academic CV will know how to interpret this . In general ( and this may vary by discipline ) , journal articles ( and other full-text works ) speak to your lasting academic contribution . In contrast , conference presentations show that you are actively presenting your work . Typically , people evaluating your CV ( e.g. , for a job , promotion , grant , etc. ) would give different weight to different sections . Thus , organising your academic output by sections makes their job easier .
If you do a masters thesis on topic X and topic X is not too far from topic Y , for example , if they are both computer science topics , and your academic record is good and your background is sufficient to make the transition , then I do n't see any problem making the change at this level . You can catch up on whatever knowledge you need while learning about and researching topic Y . This will not look bad . After you obtain your PhD , people will be less interested in your masters . Changing later in your career is also possible , though a little more difficult . One positive point about being able to demonstrate that you can change topic is to show that you are not a one trick pony , meaning that you are able to apply yourself at the highest level to different areas . Indeed , as interests in the field shifts and technology changes and new topics open up , it will often actually be necessary to change topics in order to survive in the field . If people ( or just you ) lose interest in a topic , then you need to be able to change . But it is also good to demonstrate that you can commit to one line of research . Apart from the advantages this gives you , such as having a deep knowledge of a specialised topic , it demonstrates your commitment and can be used to show that you have and follow a research strategy .
No , it 's by no means necessary to specialise on one topic for all your papers , and many people do n't . You do make it harder for yourself when you do n't , though . Going into a new topic requires familiarity with a new area of cutting-edge research , learning which publication ( s ) to target , and maybe learning new methods . And one of things I find most time-consuming is that you have to collect a new set of references . Once you 've published within one topic , it 's like you 've laid down foundations in your literature review that you can build on again and again . But when you move to a new topic , you have to lay down new foundations : instead of simply updating your last literature review , you have to start rebuilding the foundations from a much smaller base . So you do find the really prolific people , who churn out maybe a dozen papers a year or more , have often stuck to a very narrow topic , and can get closer to staying on top of all the relevant literature .
Why not ? Of all the possible people to give the ( new ) talk , you invited that person , and even trusted them to give a good talk on short notice !
How should you cite ? There is a format for citing web references for nearly any citation style . In the <URL> Last , First M. " Article Title . " Website Title . Website Publisher , Date Month Year Published . Web . Date Month Year Accessed . In <URL> Author , A. ( date ) . Title of document [ Format description ] . Retrieved from Website You may leave out the author field when it is not possible to retrace the original author ( as described <URL> ) When should you cite ? If you were to refer a material that has sufficient information to be given credit for your work , then by all means you ought to cite it . But first , try to find the roots of the idea , if such idea has been published elsewhere before this web-page was published . On-line content is highly susceptible to contain plagiarized content . See if you could locate the original source . If found , cite the original source instead .
A quick google " apa cite video " would give you lots of advice , such as <URL> which notes : Last Name , F.M. [ Username ] . ( Year , Month Date ) . Title of video . [ Video File ] . Retrieved from URL .
How should you talk about the weakness ? Honestly . This does n't mean you need to dwell on it or undermine all the rest of this talk around your point . But if you know about a serious weakness , you should n't be afraid to acknowledge it when necessary . Yes , your work will appear less awesome as a result . But which of these two scenarios would you rather have ? You show the work you did , acknowledge the weakness , and discuss how you think it would be best to improve the work in the future in order to achieve the overall goals . You have n't solved the problem , but you 've taken a useful step . You claim your work has no weaknesses , and when people inevitably notice , they think that you are either too foolish to notice the weakness or too insecure and self-important to acknowledge it . Your paper was accepted , despite the reviewers pointing out the weakness , and that means people must find something of value in it . Focus on the value that is still there despite the weakness , and let that be the point on which you build .
The main reason for fees is that there is a cost for renting the auditoriums and perhaps other services ( refreshments , facilities etc. ) . Under such circumstances all participants need to pay to support the conference . Exactly how the pricing is done differs widely but in most cases it is based on costs divided by a certain number of projected participants in different categories . There are conferences which I have attended that seem horrendously expensive and are held in luxurious places with organizing services and then there are those run by a smaller society where making a cheap efficient meeting for the members by the members is a priority . In all cases you pay just to get in . So pricing will vary depending on venue and organiser . Depending on how the conference is organized you may be able to gain some insights into how the costs come about and then make constructive comments to the organisers on how it should change ; particularly if the organisers are a membership organisation where you are a member .
First contact the authors of the paper , and discuss the issue with them . When the flaw is small and does not affect their results too much , they might simply put an erratum on their website . When they are unwilling to do so , let it rest ( it is a small flaw ) . When the error is significant , you might co-publish together with the original authors a new conference article that addresses this ( it might even be called ' Erratum on paper XYZ ' )
Yes , it is acceptable , particularly since the author lists will all be different . Go for it ! One word of warning : The papers themselves must have clearly different content . If you submit five nearly identical papers , the editors are likely to accept at most the best one and reject the rest . That will annoy your other co-authors mightily .
Is it a good idea to upload a version of the survey on Arxiv and keep on updating it ? It 's worth doing if you have the time and energy , but it 's unconventional . There are some continuously updated survey papers ( such as the <URL> in the Electronic Journal of Combinatorics ) , but the usual expectation is that a survey represents a snapshot in time . As a career matter , writing a second survey on recent results a few years later may get you more attention and credit than updating your original survey . Continuous updates can be especially useful if they are timely and the field is particularly hot , but they have their own limitations in a rapidly developing field ( the original organization may weigh you down if you stick too closely to it ) . From my perspective , the trickiest aspect is what to tell people . If you silently update the paper , it wo n't attract as many readers as announcing that everyone should check back for periodic updates . ( And the whole purpose is to inform the community , so getting readers is important . ) On the other hand , it 's difficult to commit to regular updates , and it 's nice to avoid issues such as whether other authors should be unhappy that their latest results have n't made it into the survey yet . In that case , should the Arxiv version contain a note that an earlier version was published in so-and-so journal ? If you update the arXiv version of a paper after publication , it 's critically important to be clear about how it relates with the published version . Otherwise you risk confusing and upsetting your readers . I would recommend against removing anything from the survey over time . It would still be accessible via past versions on the arXiv for those who know to look there , but it 's annoying to send a student to learn about X in Arani 's survey and have them report back that it 's not covered .
I highly value humor and love to entertain whenever I can . In formal writing , I would encourage you to go ahead and write something that you think would be funny . Then reread it . Then reread it again . Read it aloud . Read it silently . Read it again tomorrow while you edit it . And read it again . And again . And again . Imagine reading it out loud to the people with the least sense of humor you know . Imagine reading it to a person with a furrowed brow , in a bad mood , who is trying to find anything they can to rip apart what you have laid down , to find a reason to cast it aside as useless junk . Then read it 10 more times , as any good writer must inevitably do . Now imagine reading it again in 10 years ( if you are lucky and what you 've done turns out to be of use ) . Personally , I have found that after the 20 + time I 've read something , it is n't even funny to me anymore - and I think I 'm hilarious ! But even the best jokes I 've ever told never landed 100 % of time , or to 100 % of the audience - and in formal writing I do n't even know who the audience is - they might speak my language as a 2nd ( or 3rd or 4th ) language . Being stubborn , I like to write humor into anything I make . But after the 20th read through I realize it just is n't funny any more , even to me - and if that 's how a reader would feel who does n't get or appreciate the joke , it just is n't worth it any more to me to include it . I 'm basically writing a technical instruction manual , and there 's a reason those things are n't really funny - you are supposed to read them and refer back to them repeatedly , and jokes get old fast . If I really like a joke , I 'll save it for when I can make it in person , in a talk or in a presentation , when I can personally hear the laughs ( or gauge the room and know to skip it entirely ) . Or I 'll be funny on a website like this so I can wallow in a mass of glorious unicorn points . But in formal writing like a thesis or important research paper ? Well , you decide after you 've read it for the 30th time if it is still worth inclusion , or if that emoticon makes you smile - or if you want to poke it in its tiny little semi-colon eye .
end question
start question
How handicapped am I in graduate admissions if I graduated from a lower tier university ?
You do n't mention what field you 're in . At least in the social sciences at my R1 , we look at various factors . The admissions committee knows that people have to choose the college that they went to for various reasons other than just academic excellence . One of the factors that I look at is trajectory . Someone who went to a public high school , then a community college , and then transferred to a public university , with perhaps middling grades the first year but then quickly ramps up to stellar grades by the time they graduate is very interesting to me -- much more than someone who got all As at a good school but does n't seem like they pushed themselves very hard . With the portfolio that you describe for yourself , I 'd say you would n't be eliminated in the first round , but you 'd struggle in the second and third rounds to stand out . How you stand out is up to you . I 'd work on a stellar statement of purpose -- one that strongly articulates why you want to go to graduate school to study what you want to study . Again , this is in the social sciences at my school ( a large private R1 ) , your mileage may vary . Part of this is because brilliance by itself is n't enough for grad school in the social sciences . Perseverance and autonomy and the ability to get knocked down and get back up are also critical .
If you are applying as an international student , you need TOEFL . It does not depend on you high school education . For international students , you will be considered as a non-native english speaker , so toefl is necessary . If you are applying as a domestic student ( meanign you have citizenship/greencard ) , you dont need toefl . Anyways , toefl is a very easy exam !
There is no really good reason for schools to ask what other schools a student is applying to . I personally make it a point as much as possible never to ask people who I 'm interviewing or whose applications I 'm reviewing what other programs they 're considering . I do ask , however , if they are actively considering other options , this is something that can affect our internal decision-making process , so I ask if students are entertaining offers , but not where . Schools are likely to be using this answer to gauge what schools you 're applying to , with a view towards planning whom to admit . But again , I do agree that this question is invasive , and is n't really necessary . In addition , schools should n't be checking up with other graduate schools about their admissions , so I would answer in whatever way you feel comfortable . Moreover , you can always claim that your answer was accurate at the time , but changed following the point at which you submitted the application .
Sadly , that sounds like spam , and you should treat it however you 'd treat spam . I 'm not sure you should assume good faith on the part of the people sending you those e-mails . I 'm an active academic with an e-mail address accessible on my university website , and I receive : Legitimate conference announcements over e-mail lists used by people in the area , which I could unsubscribe from if I wished . Announcements from people who actually know me . Unsolicited announcements from scam journals and conferences . I receive several of the last category every week ( and more , unsurprisingly , than any other category ) . I do not get legitimate mass e-mails that are not in the first two categories . It 's possible that in other fields there are some legitimate announcements sent the way you describe , but I 'd guess very few . In other words : spam is spam , and you should feel no compunctions about treating it that way .
Perhaps one little " therapy " often relevant is to try to remind yourself that you are the authority in reading papers critically , and the goals are about progress , not evaluation of you by some third party . It is understandable that " school " has left one with an excessively paranoid concern about being attacked , being " checked-on " , being examined , being doubted , and so on . Indeed , " school " often includes exaggerated measures that express very clearly an antagonistic , adversarial attitude of " teachers " toward " students " . Naturally , many negligent students are able to ignore this pressure , while students who were already doing the right thing are the ones who feel that somehow they 're not doing enough . A similar dynamic exists in many human enterprises . So , again , the thing to repeat to yourself over and over is that now you are to function as an authority , you are to assess these papers . The point is not so much any more someone else 's assessment of your " performance " ( often on meaningless , contrived , artificial tasks ) . In particular , the common " teaching-examining " devices of " trick questions " should be forgotten . When encountering a new idea , do n't immediately be worrying how someone could use the idea to trip you up , but , instead , what constructive use you could make of it . In particular , if it does not ( at least for the moment ) seem useful to you , then do n't spend a lot of time on it just for the sake of self-defense against trick questions ! Nevertheless , one should often keep a " pointer " to seemingly useless ideas , because their utility may be discovered only later . But do n't study things whose utility seems null . Move on , just keeping a " bookmark " , so if/when something percolates into your head later , you can go back and look a second time .
There 's a small chance it might help but probably not . If your page has been on the internet for any length of time then it 's already going to be stored in a number of library archives like archive.org It 's possible to remove pages from the site but it takes time and there are other archives . Example : <URL> Also your publications are likely to be searchable through a number of online systems for finding papers such as google scholar .
I may have an unusual perspective on this , since many mathematics Ph.D. programs in the U.S. fund all their students ( at least through teaching ) . In this context , I 'd recommend against even mentioning the possibility of self-funding : It sounds unconfident , like you do n't expect to receive funding , and this is not a positive impression to convey . You do n't want to give the impression that you feel your own application is subpar , and that you 're bargaining to try to turn a rejection into an unfunded acceptance . This might be a reasonable approach at the end of the process , if you 're stuck on a waiting list , but it 's a problematic way to begin . Letting Ph.D. students go into debt feels exploitative , especially in a program in which most or all of the other students are funded , and letting wealthy people buy their way into graduate school is also troubling . There will be worries about how sustainable your self-funding is . In a year or two , your money or willingness to go into debt may run out , and the department would have to choose whether to come up with money for you or kick you out . That 's an unpleasant choice , and the admissions committee may even worry that you are deliberately aiming for this situation ( in the hope that they wo n't be willing to kick you out once you 've joined the department ) . In the sort of programs I 'm familiar with , announcing in advance that you would be willing to self-fund a Ph.D. wo n't increase your chances of admission . I 've only seen this come up very rarely , and the admissions committee has simply ignored the offer of self-funding and made a decision of acceptance with funding or rejection . I can easily imagine that it could decrease the chances of admission a little , although I have n't seen a clear-cut case of that . By contrast , if you are awarded a prestigious fellowship with guaranteed funding for a certain number of years , you should certainly make sure admissions committees know about it . That does n't have any of these disadvantages . However , it 's not in your best interests to offer to pay your own way unless that 's a common and respected approach in your field .
There are many possible interpretations of why the students turned away from you . You should not jump to the conclusion that you are bad at teaching . For example , it is possible , judging from the information you gave in the comment , that the students simply did not wish to have a tutor , despite the good intention of the parents who hired you . This is especially common in certain East Asian countries where competition for educational resources are fierce . Moreover , depending on the type of students you tutor , your experience may not speak to your potential as a professor at all . After all , the academic need of a high school student is quite different from that of a college and graduate student . Your teaching style may work well for college students , but not so much for the high school ones . Finally , even if teaching is not your strongest suit , the experience you gain as you finish grad school and post-doc should help you build the necessary skills ( yes , teaching can be an acquired skill , not just an innate charisma ) . So depending on where you are along your education , there may still be time for improvement . Also , depending on the type of university you work in , the relative importance of research and teaching can vary considerably . So even if everything else fails , working in a research-oriented university should help a bit with the problem .
By starting a discussion on a point of interest to both them and you . This can typically be a question , or introducing yourself and suggesting that you would like to discuss some of your results with them . But before you can get this conversation started , you 'll have to give your name , and state your position , so : all of the above . I think the best time/place to introduce yourself is at a poster session , if your conferences have some . And the purpose of these sessions is for people to discover new research and new names in their field , so that 's where it is most easy to do so . I 'd suggest the following : Hello , my name is X , I 'm a PhD student at Y in the group of Z. ( now , you 've given him enough context ... time to start a discussion ) I 've read your recent papers on W , and I had a question about it which I could not really solve myself . I was wondering whether , in the diagonalisation step of your algorithm , you could use a direct-space method based on partial sampling of the matrix , rather than transform it to reciprocal space . Do you know if someone ever tried that ? or I have a poster discussing the economics of greenhouse gases ' role in global warming , and how it will enable us to save on the costs of construction of actual greenhouses . I think it may be of interest to you ... I 'm over there in row 307 , and I 'd really love to get a chance to discuss this with you ... Scientists are curious , and the best way to approach them is to pique their curiosity ...
Small errors that do not affect the results or conclusions of the paper are normally handled through publication of a correction ( or erratum ) . This is handled by the journal editor , who will be in contact with the authors for confirmation that they agree as to it being an error , and provide for the exact correction to be published . The journal that published paper should have a policy on corrections , check it out ! Physical Review Letters 's editorial policies and practices state , for example : Errata . -- The Errata section contains notices regarding errors or omissions in papers previously published . Besides the standard Erratum , several special categories of documents may appear in this section . In the online journal , each of these documents involve bidirectional links between the original article and the document in the Errata section . The category of the corrective document is indicated in its title and in the link from the original article . The standard Erratum is a statement by the authors of the original paper that briefly describes the correction ( s ) and , where appropriate , any effects on the conclusions of the paper . Thus , what you should do is : Make double sure it is actually an error . Then ask someone else to double check it again . Preferably someone more senior , i.e. with some experience of academic publication . Write to the corresponding author , pointing out the error . Be nice , and make real sure not to assume to worst . You say " this is a pretty big mistake and suggests they have n't actually read the paper they referenced " : depending on context , it could actually be something minor like a copy-paste mistake ( pasting the wrong reference , when they meant another paper ) If you do not obtain a response , or they respond but do n't intend to correct the error , then consider contacting the editor . I can understand why , as an undergrad , you would consider contacting the editor directly without writing to the authors first . However , as long as you remain professional in your correspondence with them , I think it 's best to contact the authors first . It 's more polite , and they may actually be able to provide you with some explanation you have n't thought of . Contacting the editor before the authors is somewhat overdoing it ...
You 're not really a student at your new institution until you have actually arrived and registered there . At this point , it would appropriate to say something like : I will be a graduate student at Institute X with anticipated start date D You can certainly update your CV to convey that information immediately . As for other sites , typically they allow you to list a number of positions with starting and ending dates . If their system lets you list a start date in the future ( I have n't tried that on the particular sites you mention ) , then that would be a clear enough communication of your current and anticipated status . Otherwise , you can write the same sort of " anticipated start date " line in your free-text personal description .
German copyright is very different from UK or US copyright . In German law , copyright always belongs to the author ( s ) , and can not be given away . What you can give away are the various rights of use . The question here thus should be whether your university has a right to use your presentations , potentially even an exclusive right to use them . In the case of computer programs , § 69b of the German copyright law explicitly states that the employer has the exclusive right to use the work . I am not sure whether a lawyer could argue that your presentation is a computer program - maybe he could if it is a tex file :) . Otherwise , as F ' x writes , it depends on your work contract . If there is not an explicit statement in your work contract that the university has the right to use any copyrighted works that you authored during your employment , they will generally not have such rights . In the typical employment contracts at German universities , such statements are not included .
I know this question was asked a while ago , but I found it while searching and ca n't believe it was n't answered . My mentor and I helped his team to analyze their data in that time and the project is still going on and sometimes , if his team needs , I work on their project which is not paid . It sounds like you helped in research and also have a personal relationship with him . Of course this is exactly the kind of person who can probably write a great recommendation letter or give a great reference , especially if he liked your work . Even if he is n't in exactly the same field as you , he can probably write a very specific recommendation letter pertaining to research you helped perform .
When you submit a paper to a journal , you are implicitly agreeing to make a reasonable effort to publish the paper in that journal . But you are not signing a contract that requires you will make absolutely every change that the referees suggest . In the end , it 's your name on the paper . If the editor has actually rejected the draft ( e.g. " revise and resubmit " ) , and you are not interested in sending revised work , there are few direct consequences . You only need to write an email to the editor saying that you have carefully considered the referee 's reports , and that you would like to retract your submission . It is polite to acknowledge the referees at the same time , since they have spent time on your paper . But see the note of caution below ! If the editor has accepted your paper ( e.g. " accepted with minor revisions " ) then I would recommend making a good faith effort to revise the paper . This is what you implicitly agreed to by submitting to the journal . Of course , you do not have to make all the changes , or make them exactly how the referee wants . But you want to make a good-faith effort to address them in your own way . You do n't want to cultivate a reputation as someone who is not willing to make even reasonable changes to a submitted paper . One word of caution : it is not entirely " safe " to retract a paper and then submit it in the same form elsewhere . The new journal might end up picking the same referee ! <URL> on this site about this exact issue . I recommend reading that entire Q &amp; A thread , actually .
I would say it depends . In the following <URL> , JeffE resoundingly stated that age does not play into the decision whether to appoint somebody for an academic position . Yet , ETH Zurich ( one of the world 's premiere institutions in the technical sciences ) even <URL> ( see the information box on the right ) . Pragmatically , you may be a bit out of the norm . This may give you a small edge in some cases , and may be a small disadvantage in others . For every academic that is concerned about your age , there will be another one that values your industrial experience . I would say , if age is the only thing holding you back , then go and apply for assistant professor positions . Leaving a job in a research lab to start as an associate professor would in a way seem like a starting all over again . Assistant professor is n't the same as associate professor . Both are not the same as " starting all over " . In practice , in most places I have seen , professors on all levels are able to work quite independently , so none should be seen as an entry-level job . Assistant professor may be entry-level in terms of professorships , but it is actually a quite senior position in the wider context of academia .
Working from a bibliography in another paper is not plagiarism . It 's actually a good research technique . As you read those papers , check their bibliographies , too , and so on . Pretty soon you will have thorough coverage of the subject . Do note that you can not just plop those 50-60 or so references into your own bibliography but do nothing else , nor paraphrase what someone else has said about them , but without reading them . That 's called reference padding and is academic misconduct . You have to actually read the papers . When you do that , you may find that some of them do n't fit your needs as well as you may have at first thought . You will also find it easy to write your own thoughts about those papers , and so will not have to worry about paraphrasing another author .
Well , it 's much better to have a part-time research position than no research position -- or more accurately , it 's much better to be doing some research than no research . I assume from your question you are either looking for a tenure-track/permanent faculty position at a research school or a research-oriented postdoc . If you want me to assess your chance of success , I ca n't accurately do that without knowing a lot about your situation -- in most areas I know of , the job market is n't great now , but certainly some fields/geographic regions/types of positions are less competitive than others . Basically , for a research-oriented position , you want to convince the people in charge of hiring that you 're going to do great research and contribute a lot to the research group you 're trying to be a part of . Generally this is easier the more research you 've done . However , if the amount and quality of research you 've done is impressive for someone doing other work part-time , that will probably taken into account -- which is maybe what you were really asking about . For instance , if two candidates have comparable research and one had a heaving teaching load at the time and one had a light load , the one with the higher teaching load looks more impressive . But if your research output is considerably less than the competition , it 's harder but not impossible to be viewed as a top candidate . Here outstanding references can help make up for this . Also , this is probably not a much of an issue if you are looking for postdoc positions .
Universities typically consider such intent statements to be binding . If you submit these statements to multiple universities , they will all hold seats for you , seats which could otherwise go to someone from their waiting list . This hurts those other applicants . It is also a serious inconvenience to the department 's admissions committee , as they need to meet their enrollment targets as closely as possible ; failure to do so can affect their funding , and in extreme cases , the survival of the graduate program . So this is at least inconsiderate on your part , and arguably unethical . If the institutions find out that you have done this , it is possible that they may rescind their acceptances ; this is uncommon but has been known to happen . In addition , you would certainly forfeit any deposits that you paid . At the undergraduate level , where deposits are almost always required ( in the US ) , this practice is called " double depositing " . The National Association for College Admission Counseling , in their " <URL> " , says : Colleges view dual or multiple deposits by students as serious violations of trust and may revoke a previous offer of admission from any student who is found to have sent tuition deposits to more than one college . My advice is this : at this point , you should plan on attending the university X to which you 've announced your intent . However , if you are absolutely convinced that doing so would be a huge mistake ( not merely that you think Y is a little bit better ) , then you could contact the admissions committee at X , explain your reasons , apologize , and ask to be released from your agreement . If you do this , you should do it as soon as possible ( ideally within days - do n't stew about it for two weeks ) , and know that it will probably burn your bridges with X , as well as forfeiting your deposit . If X says it 's all right ( they probably will - if you do n't want to be there , they do n't want you there ) , then you could send your intent to Y . Some people might argue that you are also ethically obligated to inform Y of the situation . I think it 's kind of a gray area , myself . You might also discuss the matter with an advisor or other professor at your current institution . They might offer some perspective on X that would help reassure you . In general , most people say that it is n't so crucial which institution you attend , within reason - your own skills and motivation are a much greater factor in your success .
I am going to answer based on an implicit assumption I feel much of your question hinges on : One of the problems is , they did not mention that part in the abstract , therefore I have accepted . This sounds like had you known that their work is so similar to yours , you would have rejected the review . However , I would argue that that can not possibly be in the interest of the review system . Yes , you could argue for a conflict of interest , but it is the conflict of interest that exists generally , based on the simple fact that other people beside you do research in the same or similar topics as you . It is not a conflict of interest on a personal level ( e.g. you being part of the team whose paper is being reviewed ) . Instead , it is a conflict of interest that , in theory , should quite often exist in the review process - for reviews to be meaningful , reviewers need to be familiar with the topic to some extent , and thus , a similarity of the research topics between authors and reviewers is hardly avoidable . I see your concerns about what the authors of the paper under review might be thinking , though you might have to brush them aside for the time being . However , what you can do is draw the benefit from being the reviewer and thus having early access to a manuscript : While your method may be very similar , it is most probably not exactly the same . When describing your method , try and insert a few sentences that focus particularly on a few aspects that you do differently from them . For future publications you might write on similar topics , keep in mind that there may be a similar publication by those authors around that you can cite . This has advantages for both sides : You increase the chances to include a relevant citation that you might otherwise miss ( and thus the authors ' chances of being cited by you are increased ) . Even though you can not yet cite the work of the other authors , your clear description of some different aspects serves as a way to " preemptively " establish the differences between your work and theirs . If they happen to publish a revised version of their paper after your work has appeared , you have already provided them with quite a straightforward foundation for describing their differences to your work . In the comments , the concern has been voiced that even without the assumption of plagiarism , the authors of the other paper might still feel by rejecting their work , you intentionally stalled their progress for long enough so you could publish your own very similar work first , and now it 's their problem to care about the prior art . However , there are some aspects of good scientific practice that speak against that line of reasoning : You do not provide an unjustified judgement , you provide a review . If you choose to reject the paper , you have the opportunity to describe objectively and in detail why you deem the work in its current state not ready for publication . The other authors have not yet published their work in a properly citeable fashion , but that still just means you have plausible deniability on your side when you are asked whether you knew about the other work . Scientific integrity still demands that you consider the existing prior work , published or not , which is exactly what you are doing by specifically describing some aspects that you do differently than the reviewed paper , as described above .
You have two different questions : one in your title , regarding coping an image , and another regarding the results . Copying a figure : It depends on the license of the paper . If it is appropriately licensed ( as with a Creative Commons Attribution license ) , you generally can , as long as you indicate it . If it is copyrighted , you are in the grey area of possible fair use . In these cases , the safest option is to contact the copyright holders ( usually the publisher ) and ask for permission . Another option is to contact the authors and ask them for the raw data itself , so you can plot it yourself ( so you keep a constant style across the paper ) , or ask them to regenerate it for you . Using results : The results are not copyrightable , so you can freely use them . If Smith et al , 2007 report an accuracy of 91 % , and you get a 97 % , you can freely put the numbers next to each other .
end question
start question
Master of Engineering vs Master of Science ?
The main practical difference between the two degrees , as you point out , is the requirement of a research thesis for the MS degree . Generally , if you have aspirations of eventually getting a PhD , you should strongly consider the MS , as research experience or potential is a large factor in being admitted to a PhD program . To answer your specific question , you should be a better researcher after completing an MS , and you will be better prepared for further graduate work . With an ME degree ( considered a " terminal " degree ) , you 'll simply have a Master 's degree and ( potentially ) may have spent more time on your coursework . Whether or not this prepares you better for a position in industry is debatable -- as you say , many ME programs are one year , which may actually include fewer classes than an equivalent MS ( although I 've generally seen ME programs that have one or two more classes as a requirement than the equivalent MS degree ) . As to which degree leads to more jobs in industry , I 'd say it 's probably about the same . Getting an MS will certainly not limit your competitiveness for industry jobs , while ( as I already mentioned ) , an ME may limit your competitiveness for PhD programs .
I 'm currently on a Masters program in Japan , and I also did n't have any experience with research at all when I had to write a research plan , which made me very stressed . As someone without research experience , how should I deal with this situation ? There is no other way . You 'll have to write your own research plan and contact your potential advisor . It is pretty hard to write a research plan when you have no clue , but here is what I did : Find something you would like to research that can actually be done at the lab you pretend to go . Read about previous publications on the laboratory 's homepage , read about your potential advisor 's areas of interest . You should know how to justify why you chose that lab as your potential advisor will probably ask you during email exchange . Now that you have something that can be done at where you want to go , you 'll have to justify why you chose that theme . Try to write about the potential applications of [ your research theme ] or how that will save the world or make everybody happy . Being able to strongly justify why your research is important is also essential . Describe concretely which approach you will take to tackle [ your research theme ] . Of course you might have no idea , but you should at least have a hint from the point you researched the stuff that can be done on the lab . Write a rough schedule of about how much time your research will take ( literature review , experiment designs/simulations , analysis , time for writing up your thesis etc ) . Your research plan should have at least introduction , objectives , methodology ( possibly with a schedule ) , and references . Include references from japanese authors if possible . Remember that there is some flexibility , and once you are here you might find other research themes that are also interesting and/or more feasible than the one you initially planned . Contacting your potential advisor is also a very important step . Professors from prestigious universities receive a LOT of emails and yours may just be easily ignored depending on your attitude . Depending on the university 's guidelines , you 'll have to first introduce yourself to the university 's international office ( " Kokusai-ka " or 国際課 ) , which will then contact your potential advisor . You should be very humble and polite . Of course they might not expect it from an international student , but it will give you a positive image . Overdo it and you 'll look desperate . In the first email , apologize for the sudden contact , introduce yourself , write up which university you 're coming from , from which major . Say that you 've read [ potential advisor ] 's articles about [ research theme ] and that you 're interested in doing research under his/her guidance , and ask if that is possible ( the lab may be full capacity ) . Do NOT attach anything in the first email , it 's suspicious and will look rude ( like you 're pushing something for them to do for you ) . If you are lucky , you might receive a reply within 2 weeks . If it is positive , you may be asked to send your research plan , academic transcript , TOEFL or JLPT certificate and possibly be asked some questions via email or Skype . At this stage you will probably be fine . In case your first option gets rejected , write another email from scratch for other potential advisors ( read his/her papers , etc - they suspect when the email looks like it had just one or two names changed , it suggests that you send the same email for many other places and conveys that you are desperate ) . In any case , be prepared not to receive any reply at all . I tried contacting over 15 potential advisors/laboratories and got replies from 3 of them . I got rejected from one because the lab was full , and from another one because I did n't have a JLPT certificate . Is there any taught master program in Japan ? I 'm currently in a taught masters program in STEM field . We have many lectures , tests , appointments , seminars , etc. pretty much like undergrad , except that grading is mostly done by assignments instead of tests . Of course , it will depend on your university and department .
There may be advisers , departments , universities , countries ( academic cultures ) or fields where you need to come up with your own idea . I would not think this is the norm , however . In many cases Phd positions are financed by project funding so that the project is largely defined . This does not mean that the entire PhD is staked out in advance but the direction is . When you start a PhD you need an adviser which would imply that the field and direction of research of that adviser will determine the direction of your research . In many academic systems you directly apply to a PhD project which is pre-defined . I could probably come up with more cases that point away from come up with your own thesis topic . That said , however , it is not inconceivable that someone could enter a system with an own idea but since coming up with great ideas commonly involves having a deep understanding of a field , and that in itself being one of the goals of a PhD , it would be a very rare case . So depending where you are or where you are heading in the academic world , you do not need to know the thesis topic in advance . You will be looking for topics that may interest you and once finding positions announced decide if they fit your interests . It is rare that you find exactly what you dream of so many go for positions that are " close enough " . Another point here is that you would probably not select a topic only , you would also consider the academic milieu and if you think it would be good for you and your endeavour into research .
Extremely uncommon I understand that interviews are fairly common in other fields and in other countries , but they are rare in computer science in the US . In my experience ( student , postdoc , or faculty at five different American CS departments ; multiple years on graduate admissions committees ; dozens of recommendation letters for CS undergraduates applying to graduate school ) , very few ( if any ) American computer science departments include interviews as a standard part of the PhD application process . There are rare exceptions , though , usually involving prospective advisors calling up applicants directly . The most common reason for a phone interview in my department is to assess their English fluency , especially when the applicant 's test scores are borderline , or there seems to be a discrepancy between their test scores and the fluency of their statements . I 'd be surprised if this happens more than 10 times a year , and we get 2000 grad applications each year . When I applied to Berkeley 's PhD program , I was already a PhD student at UC Irvine . My future advisor and the director of grad admissions called me to ask why I wanted to move when I seemed to be succeeding in my current program ( good advisor , good research progress , and so on ) . I suspect they also wanted to understand the discrepancy betwen my grad school grades ( good ) and my undergrad grades ( terrible ) . In short , as long as there 's nothing borderline or non-standard in your application , it 's unlikely that you 'd need to be available for an interview . And even if someone does want to interview you , they 're much more likely to want to do it by phone or skype than in person .
Basic answer : usually it does not matter for anything whatsoever . Personal anecdote : Sometimes such degrees differ in minutia that few ( i.e. no one ) would care about . At my US undergraduate institution , I took majors in philosophy and chemistry , but I made the chemistry major first on some sort of form to insure the BS rather than the BA . I did so because my school offered both BAs and BSs in chemistry that differed insofar as the BA was easier to earn . At the time , I imagined someone would care . Longer Explanation I went on to earn a MA and then PhD in philosophy ( at different institutions ) , and I would say in retrospect that no one would probably have cared in the slightest unless they specifically wanted that coursework difference for some reason . Moreover , the terms used for undergraduate degrees differ so markedly by institution that no one would depend on the title of your degree to figure out what you did or studied . Explanation of Degree of Interest If I were to guess , I would venture that a BS in EE has more humanities than a BE and that the former might be in a college of arts and sciences and the latter in a college of engineering . I would be willing to venture $ 0.01 x 10 ^ -6 on this .
There is no definite answer . It really depends on how much previous literature exists , how much of it you have reviewed and cited appropriately , and ( loosely ) what the word count of the document is . Page count can misleading , as some theses have many more figures and tables than others . No one is going to skip to the bibliography , think negative thoughts , and say " you have too many references ! " without reading the document . If no individual part of the thesis could be considered as having too many citations , then the thesis as a whole has an appropriate number of citations . These related questions have answers as to how you can decide if a particular part of the thesis has too many citations . <URL> <URL>
This is the first I 've heard of a " Doctor of Computer Science " degree . Not having a dissertation requirement is a clear sign that this is different from a " standard " Ph.D program . A Ph.D ( in any discipline ) requires you to produce an original piece of research that you defend to a committee of experts . In addition , most Ph.D programs will have course requirements , residency requirements and so on . Update : Some googling led me to the Wikipedia entry on ' <URL> ' , which most closely match the nature of the degree the OP describes . As Austin Henley points out , this is close in spirit to an MD ( USA ) and JD .
Disclaimer : I am a current doctoral candidate with 2 years of experience as the graduate student representative on the admissions committee of my department ( in STEM ) at a major R1 university in the USA and so , write this answer from that context . Simply put , a strong research record matters . However , this comes with several caveats . For a successful doctoral application in our department , we look at 1 . Standardized Test Scores : These ( GRE/TOEFL ) will not get you in but can keep you out . Mostly , they serve as preliminary filters and to fulfill certain graduate school minimum requirements . 2 . GPA/Academic Record : This matters significantly . Relevant grades in relevant courses matter more . A 4.3 GPA from MIT in Mathematics and Computer Science is great for a Mathematics or Computer Science application . We tend to look at overall GPA 's and then at relevant courses to catch red flags . For instance , you want to develop novel machine learning algorithms but have a C + on " Introduction to Discrete Structures " and B - on " Statistical Data Mining " . Red flag ! 3 . Research Experience : Research experience is important but more so in different sub-fields . This is the same as publications but there are important variations . For instance , in the field of Human-Computer Interaction ( HCI ) , having a first author paper in <URL> or <URL> matters more than a first author paper in a conference the admissions committee most probably have n't heard about . If you want your research to speak up , then get published in the best conferences in your field . This is not a requirement but is a very good sign of your nascent research potential . Over the past few years , I have seen increasing numbers of applications to our department come from well qualified undergraduate and masters students with such records . Its a competitive world ! 4 . Letters of Recommendations : This should be correlated positively with research experience . If your letters talk about your wonderful performance in coursework , admissions committees are generally not very interested ( they can already see that from your transcripts ) . If , on the other hand , you have detailed letters of recommendation from researchers that the admissions committee might know and which attest to your research performance with them , then that is a very good sign indeed ! In other words , its all about signals , signs and red flags . Specifically , in response to your questions : It varies . Unpublished manuscripts are not worth much but can serve as a good writing sample in case you do not have any other publications .
As a person who faced a similar dilemma a few years ago , I think there are major practical differences : The working environment . Every doctor will spend his early career in a hospital , whether he plans on practising in the community later or not . A hospital environment is really different than the research one . In the former you are constantly on your feet , working long hours , nights , etc. . However , you are constantly working with the people to whom you 're helping . In a " lucky " week ( depends on the POV ) , you might save a life every day . Taking work home . While a M.D works long and hard hours at his/er practice , when she goes home - she can rest . Her patients does n't follow her home . As a researcher I can tell you that I 'm even dreaming on my research . Independence . The medical environment is a very hierarchical one . Starting out as a M.D , you ca n't even sign off your own orders ( in first world countries , at least :) ) , contrary to a graduate student who might be given an independent project very early in his or her study course . Goals . As a researcher , you end up working for the sake of science . You might find yourself pursuing a direction which might take decades before it translates into helping people . As a practitioner - you 're working for the people in front of you . Demand for your skills . In general - there are hardly any M.Ds who go unemployed . Most healthcare systems are understaffed and there is always a demand for M.Ds . I wish we could say the same about positions in the academy , and the industry is never as stable ( and here it 's field specific and I ca n't say much about the specific field in question ) .
In the UK it 's relatively unusual to apply for an MPhil - MSc and MRes are much more common . MPhils really exist to cover failed PhD candidates . When you apply to study for a PhD in the UK , for the first 12-18 months you are placed on " probation " ( even if you alread hold an MSc/MRes ) . After this time , a review ( and mini-viva ) of both your progress and quality of research is conducted and you are either " confirmed " as being a PhD candidate or are relegated to MPhil .
When it comes to conferences , if there were submitted papers , and they were published as a volume , that volume is called the proceedings . A paper that was published in the proceedings must have been accepted by the conference . Sometimes the proceedings are published as a standalone work , and sometimes they are published as a special issue of a journal . It should be noted that some societies publish a journal that has " Proceedings " in the title , such as the " Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences " or the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " . These should be distinguished as standalone journals and not confused with the proceedings of a conference .
I 've heard that I should apply as if I 'm pursuing an experimental physics track , though , because it 's less competitive , and then transition towards a theory group once admitted . Is this sound advice ? Yes , it is , in general . A very high percentage of people applying to physics PhD programs say that they want to do theory , especially particle theory , but in reality only a very small percentage of grad students end up doing theory . However , the number of people saying they want to do condensed matter theory is probably relatively small , so the usual advice may not apply to you if you 're applying to schools that have a strong , established program in condensed matter theory . Still , I am wary about misrepresenting myself and also concerned about getting stuck in a path that I do n't intend to be in . Frankly , at this stage you simply have no experience on which to base any such expectations . That 's why nobody really takes statements like this on grad school applications very seriously . That kind of statement is not binding in any way , and I doubt that anyone even remembers it once you start grad school . It may be relevant to your application mainly as an indication of whether you were serious enough about that school to find out what their research areas are . E.g. , if you apply and say you want to do quantum gravity , but nobody at that school does quantum gravity , they 'll probably circular-file your app . What will typically happen to people who think they want to do theory is that they start their graduate coursework , and they find that there 's stiff competition in courses such as field theory and general relativity . If you want to do a thesis in relativity , for example , you probably need to be the top student in the GR class . For condensed matter theory , the relevant course would probably be field theory , since a lot of the same methods are used . I do n't think it 's exactly the same at all universities in the US , but at the grad school I went to , there was this initial sorting process based on performance in coursework , and after that students spent the summer as research assistants , which was a further vetting process . There 's just no way to predict the outcome of this process in advance . As an undergrad , you 're comparing yourself to other undergrads at school A , while as a grad student , you 're comparing yourself to other grad students at school B. Often it 's the experience of moving from being a big fish in a small pond to being just one more fish . That 's how it was for me , at least .
You should provide the names who know about your academic background and research ability very well . So he/she could be your Master degree professors or supervisors . In my point of view , you should provide a name who was your project supervisor as well as professor . As per your question , I can suggest you the following two names . One from your master course department ( who has a better overview of your work and achievements during your Master studies ) One who supervised you for some weeks . Because short term project supervisor would write good about your research ability .
Professors typically do not supplement their salary with grants with one very large exception . The grant money can allow them to trade some number of required courses for research time . The big exception to this is that the typical appointment for a university professor in the US is for 9 months . If the professor wants to teach some summer courses , they can earn 3 more months of their salary for doing that , or they can get grants to fill in that time . The National Science Foundation limits US researchers who are professors to 2 months of summer time funding , though , so to get 12 full months of compensation , a professor will need income from some other source ( summer teaching , another agency 's grants , industrial grants , consulting , etc ) . So , that being said , typically professors can not increase their salary rate . They can only use it to fill in the months that the university does not usually pay them for . Finally , most universities give the option for their professors to take the 9 months of salary over 12 months of payments , so filling in those 3 months may look like a monthly raise from the perspective of their bank statements .
The main practical difference between the two degrees , as you point out , is the requirement of a research thesis for the MS degree . Generally , if you have aspirations of eventually getting a PhD , you should strongly consider the MS , as research experience or potential is a large factor in being admitted to a PhD program . To answer your specific question , you should be a better researcher after completing an MS , and you will be better prepared for further graduate work . With an ME degree ( considered a " terminal " degree ) , you 'll simply have a Master 's degree and ( potentially ) may have spent more time on your coursework . Whether or not this prepares you better for a position in industry is debatable -- as you say , many ME programs are one year , which may actually include fewer classes than an equivalent MS ( although I 've generally seen ME programs that have one or two more classes as a requirement than the equivalent MS degree ) . As to which degree leads to more jobs in industry , I 'd say it 's probably about the same . Getting an MS will certainly not limit your competitiveness for industry jobs , while ( as I already mentioned ) , an ME may limit your competitiveness for PhD programs .
I 'm attending a similar program at my university ( also UK based ) , and I was observed by a senior member of my faculty , and by another attendee of the same program . The main point was to initiate a <URL> of our teaching . Hence , the observation was not an evaluation , but simply the collection of some pieces of evidence , that described our lecture . Our actual assignment was not the observation in itself , but how we reflect upon the evidence , by describing how we feel about it , how we analyse it , what conclusions do we make about it , and what are the next steps we decide to engage on . Interestingly , I 've collected different types of evidence from my two observers : the senior member of my faculty made some observations in particular related to the content of my lecture , while the observer who was on the same program made some observations related to some of the techniques taught in the program that I used during the lecture . In both cases , all observations were really useful to start the reflective process . I can only assume this is the rationale for you to have three different observers .
My guess would be Business - > Industrial and labor relations - > Organizational
Especially in chemical engineering , it is definitely possible for people to move back and forth between experimental and computational work , and even to combine the two in a single career ( although this is much more difficult , obviously ) . Both of my graduate co-advisors have made similar transitions during their careers -- from a mainly computational focus to a primarily experimental focus . It is definitely feasible . The main issue that you 'd want to remember at the earlier stage of your career is that the further away you want to leap from your PhD research , the harder it is to find someone willing to sponsor you to do that . For instance , doing an experimental PhD related to the topic of your computational PhD should not be too difficult ; moving from computational combustion to experimental biomedical engineering would be much more challenging .
There are 2 major theories about credentials : <URL> and <URL> . Under HCT , a license ( such as a PE ) shows that you have accumulated a credible amount of knowledge ( you must graduate from an accredited engineering school ) and experience ( you need to have worked for 4 years after your bachelors to sit for the PE exam ) . Under signalling theory , the PE shows that you have done what it takes to legally call yourself an engineer . One interesting comparison of the differences of HCT and ST is <URL> . You may know just as much as another person , but the one of you that passes some hurdle signals to prospective employers that the hurdle passer is the better candidate . This is because hiring a person is trying to predict future behavior/success with limited information , and many people use signals as heuristics . You will also find out that universities hire people who have degrees . A cynical view is that they have a vested interest in maintaining the supply of people who get degrees . A signalling theory viewpoint is that universities think degrees are important enough that they only hire teachers who have them . In many fields of engineering , your working career will be very short if you do not pass your PE . Civil is one such . Other engineering fields , such as Electrical ( which is mine ) , typically have state exemptions for manufacturing , so very few EEs take their PE . When I was younger , I was quite opposed to licensure . Now , I see it as a way to distinguish myself from other candidates . One interesting blog post that inspired me to sit for my PE exam is <URL> . Another is a <URL> ( which is not online ) titled " Hiring and Inequality in Elite Professional Service Firms " . My advice is to take your EIT and PE exams as soon as practical . Some US universities require you to take your EIT exam during your senior year ( as in they wo n't issue your diploma without passing it ) . Disclaimer : I am registered to take the PE exam this April .
It 's usually politics or prestige . Back in the days when the computer science discipline was heating up ( mid to late 1990s ) , there was a big discussion on where to put computer science . Traditionally , it was a science , but at that time the economic outlook for high-tech ( which included electrical engineering and computer engineering ) was really , really hot , and it was fashionable to have a department that encompassed " everything high tech " . Thus , there was a big push to move computer science to the Faculty of Engineering . This was augmented at the time by the birth of " software engineering " programs and by a number of papers discussing programming and software development as more " engineering design " than " science " . Fast-forward twenty years or so , and you have what we have now , where programs that are related to " high-tech " are roughly grouped together . As stated already , the disciplines are different . I wo n't repeat @TinActon 's words since he 's summarized them well . However , they operated under the same high-tech umbrella for a while . Really , you do n't choose the department - you choose a program , but it 's more likely that there 's synergistic ( industrial ) collaboration in a department that has EE , CE , and CS together , as the industries that hire in EE , CE , and CS tend to overlap a lot . However , that 's not to say that there is n't cross-disciplinary opportunities for CS and the other science fields either . Biology and chemistry and physics all have a very high dependence on equipment and techniques developed in the EE/CE/CS side , and similarly EE/CE/CS benefit from the work being done in the sciences side .
end question
start question
How should I handle reviewing a paper that is very similar to something I am working on ?
I am going to answer based on an implicit assumption I feel much of your question hinges on : One of the problems is , they did not mention that part in the abstract , therefore I have accepted . This sounds like had you known that their work is so similar to yours , you would have rejected the review . However , I would argue that that can not possibly be in the interest of the review system . Yes , you could argue for a conflict of interest , but it is the conflict of interest that exists generally , based on the simple fact that other people beside you do research in the same or similar topics as you . It is not a conflict of interest on a personal level ( e.g. you being part of the team whose paper is being reviewed ) . Instead , it is a conflict of interest that , in theory , should quite often exist in the review process - for reviews to be meaningful , reviewers need to be familiar with the topic to some extent , and thus , a similarity of the research topics between authors and reviewers is hardly avoidable . I see your concerns about what the authors of the paper under review might be thinking , though you might have to brush them aside for the time being . However , what you can do is draw the benefit from being the reviewer and thus having early access to a manuscript : While your method may be very similar , it is most probably not exactly the same . When describing your method , try and insert a few sentences that focus particularly on a few aspects that you do differently from them . For future publications you might write on similar topics , keep in mind that there may be a similar publication by those authors around that you can cite . This has advantages for both sides : You increase the chances to include a relevant citation that you might otherwise miss ( and thus the authors ' chances of being cited by you are increased ) . Even though you can not yet cite the work of the other authors , your clear description of some different aspects serves as a way to " preemptively " establish the differences between your work and theirs . If they happen to publish a revised version of their paper after your work has appeared , you have already provided them with quite a straightforward foundation for describing their differences to your work . In the comments , the concern has been voiced that even without the assumption of plagiarism , the authors of the other paper might still feel by rejecting their work , you intentionally stalled their progress for long enough so you could publish your own very similar work first , and now it 's their problem to care about the prior art . However , there are some aspects of good scientific practice that speak against that line of reasoning : You do not provide an unjustified judgement , you provide a review . If you choose to reject the paper , you have the opportunity to describe objectively and in detail why you deem the work in its current state not ready for publication . The other authors have not yet published their work in a properly citeable fashion , but that still just means you have plausible deniability on your side when you are asked whether you knew about the other work . Scientific integrity still demands that you consider the existing prior work , published or not , which is exactly what you are doing by specifically describing some aspects that you do differently than the reviewed paper , as described above .
This may be field-specific , my answer refers to public ( in a way that attendees do not need any security clearance or something ) computer science conferences : I do not see any issues with posting these notes . In this day and age , commenting on whatever talk is currently being held live from within the talk on Twitter and Co. is becoming commonplace . I have been to several conferences whose organizers specifically recommended a particular Twitter tag so the comments from the audience members could be quickly found online , and once , there was even a projector set up that would display any comments posted tagged with the conference tag throughout the run of the conference . Likewise , photos from the conference presentations have sometimes been posted by the conference organizers and others . One of the nice features of this is that attribution comes almost for free - the conference tag already points out the event , and the time at which live comments are posted indicates what talk is currently being held . To make sure , you can always include a small note about the paper number or title , but that 's already sufficient to unambiguously identify the paper and the authors based on the conference schedule . Lastly , even though you may want to express certain opinions about the talks , in most cases it is generally good to be respectful toward the authors . Nothing is won by publicly humiliating them in any way ; if you have objections against their presentations , make them specific and tangible . Also , make sure you are aware whether you are referring to an actual shortcoming of the underlying research , or just to a presentation issue due to limited presentation time . If you think the issues are serious , you might even try and contact the author for a clarification , and then integrate that additional knowledge when writing or updating your note . The only time at a conference when I saw participants write somewhat respectless Tweets on a talk ( and thought they were rather appropriate ) was when a business person literally flooded the audience with buzzwords ( yes , in a <URL> - enabling way ) and thus delivered zero useful contents . That is definitely an absolute exception in conference talks .
As a researcher , I 'm generally very keen on including as many implementation details as possible . However : There is rarely the room available in a paper to describe every detail of an implementation . Describing every detail of an implementation in prose often takes substantially more work than writing the program in the first place . The meaning of code ( which is written in a formal language ) is generally unambiguous ; the meaning of prose ( which is written in natural language ) can often be ambiguous . Resolving the ambiguities in the prose takes time , effort and care -- it 's often harder than writing the code . Researchers are generally both very busy , and under a lot of pressure from above to produce quick results and move onto new projects . Resisting this pressure to bring existing work to a tidy conclusion is a good thing , but there are limits to how long you can spend doing this , and sadly the reward structure in academia provides little incentive to do it . There is a reasonable case to be made that implementation is not valued in academia to the extent that it should be . However , even if it were appropriately valued , and even if there were no page limits for papers , there would still be an opportunity cost for individual researchers when it came to producing copious documentation describing the implementation details of their code . Human lifetimes are finite : the time spent describing every detail of old code could alternatively be spent coming up with and implementing new ideas . Some old code is so useful and valuable that it 's worth spending a lot of time describing , but that 's certainly not true in all cases . A lot of code ( particularly hacked-together research code ) just is n't that valuable in the long run : time spent describing it could be better spent on something else . To directly answer your questions , then : Yes , it 's ethical to not describe every detail of your implementation -- most of the time , you ca n't , and of the times when you can , a decent proportion of the time it 's not the best use of your time . Having said that , I 'm of the school of thought that says you should at least make a reasonable effort to write good , clearly-documented code , to publish it on the web for all time ( e.g. on GitHub ) and to at least describe how the method works in a way that will enable someone reading the code to know what 's going on . If things in the code are n't in the original manuscript , start by reading and running the code to see if you can figure out what 's going on . If it 's not clear from that , do some reading around to see if other sources can give you any hints . If all else fails , and it 's crucial that you understand the details , email the authors . If they ignore you , give up on their method and use something else . The code can disappear from the author 's page for a variety of reasons -- maybe they stopped paying for hosting , for example . If you need the code in that situation , email them . As mentioned above , good practice involves putting your code in a public repository so that it will hang around , but it 's not unethical if you do n't ( just unhelpful ) .
What you are getting paid when you are not working for your university should not matter . Taking it to a ( albeit artificial and ridiculous ) extreme , if a top programmer in industry , with a salary of 100k $ / year joins a doctoral program in June , would you consider that his salary from January to May is enough so you can not pay him for a couple of years ? In my view ( and some jurisdictions too ) , working for free is very close to slavery , and should be avoided when possible . So , absolutely , you can go ahead and ask her if she will fund you . Your situation is good in the way that if she says no you will have a backup . With this said , I can understand if she refuses . If it is a single , non continued project , it is not as efficient to hire a person for one month as for three , and if you are not going to do it , she may use the funds to hire someone else for the full time . If you are going to continue doing your usual work during that month , there is not so much difference between being there one or three months , and your case is stronger . As an extra , during your fellowship , you will probably learn a bunch of new things , so you are an extra asset for your group . You can also offer to give a few seminars on what you have learned in partial exchange for the funding .
In mathematics and TCS ( which is really a branch of mathematics ) , if you do n't have a proof , you do n't have a theorem . ( You write " experiments " , which I will assume means " computer calculations " . Please let me know if this is not the case . ) Doing some computer calculations can be interesting and even sometimes publishable , but it does not constitute any kind of proof , formal or otherwise . ( Added : Well , unless it does , of course . You can prove a theorem by reducing it to a finite calculation and doing that calculation by hand or by computer or some of both . You ca n't prove a theorem which pertains to infinitely many cases by doing finitely many of them and claiming " and so on " . ) Also , although the word " confirm " is often used in this way in empirical science , in mathematics to " confirm a conjecture " means to prove it . I see two possible questions here : How do I write up computational evidence for a result that I can not prove in a paper ? Can I publish a paper in which I do not prove my conjecture but only have computational evidence towards it ? The first question is more straightforward . You state the conjecture -- i.e. , the statement that you think is a theorem but ca n't yet prove . Some discussion of the provenance of the conjecture is probably a good idea but is not strictly necessary . However , if you got the conjecture from somewhere else you must indicate that . Then you document the calculations you made . Finally , you probably want to make some remarks about why the calculations make you confident in your conjecture ( if that is the case ) . Here sometimes informal reasoning can be helpful : e.g. if your conjecture is that for two sequences of integers a_n and b_n that a_n and b_n are always congruent modulo 691 , then if you check this for the first 100,000 terms then in some naive sense the probability that this happened by accident is ( 1/691 ) ^ { 100,000 } , which is vanishingly small . The second question is much more complicated . It can be hard to publish papers in which you do not prove a theorem but " only " give computer evidence ... but not as hard as it used to be . Mathematics is slowly becoming more enlightened about the merits of computer calculations . I would say though that you need to understand the field much better to be able to predict whether a paper primarily containing computations would be publishable than to publish a more " theoretical " paper : many , many referees and journals will say " no theorem , no proof , no paper " , so you should expect to work much harder to sell your work .
I 'd like to write a paper about a specific open-source software project that I 've built but I 'm puzzled whether it would be appropriate to write a paper about it . After all , not many important software projects were published in the form of a publication . Edit : as a concrete example , this is one project I 've built : <URL> - it can visualize RDF structures as a dynamic graph which can be saved in SVG and used in presentations or slides . Would you find this appropriate as the subject of a publication ? I can help with specific suggestions for suitable venues in your area ( that accept system papers ) in order of decreasing impact for improving your research rep : <URL> . You need to be able to demonstrate real-world impact of the tool/system . Effectively , this track is for paving the cow-paths : publishing about tools/systems that are already well-known in the community but do n't have sufficient scientific contribution for a research track ( and incentivising the developement of tools/systems that are useful for the community ) . First step is to get your tool/system to be well-known . WWW Demo Track : Write a short 2-page paper on your idea , pack it with as much academically-restrained ehthusiasm and technical detail as you can and hopefully you 'll get to present it at the WWW conference . These 2-page papers will be published in the supplementary proceedings and will be indexed in DBLP . The criteria for demo papers as WWW is ( in my opinion ) often fickle ... a lot of demo papers are borderline/rejected full papers . Otherwise reviewers follow their own whims . ISWC | ESWC Demo/Poster/Challenge tracks : Probably you want to aim for a demo track . Submit a four or five page ( LNCS ) paper to ISWC or ESWC describing your demo . Main emphasis for reviewing is on the novelty of the system itself , technical soundness , and how nice a conversation-piece it will make at the poster/demo session . Demo papers are sometimes ( not always ) published as a CEUR proceedings , which will sometimes end up in DBLP . The first option is essentially free ( money wise ) for you . The latter two options will incur the cost of attending the conference to present a demo . If you are an independent researcher , that might not be an option : it might be a high cost for little reputation gain . But it depends on your long term goals . Another option is to find your inner scientific contribution and go for a research track submission . The most important aspect is that an expert in the area will learn something about the area that they did n't already know and could n't find out about elsewhere ( without doing the research themselves ) . As a reviewer in a research track , after reading a paper I will always ask myself : did I learn something ? What did I learn ? What is its nature ( theoretical , experimental , analytical , synthesis , etc. ) ? Where else could I have learned that ? As an author , I apply the same principle in reverse : what is the reader going to learn from this paper and how can I highlight it and frame it in the proper " research-speak " ? ( This may appear cynical , and perhaps it is a little , but being able to identify , highlight and sell your core contributions is a delicate art that does lead to better papers ... as well as higher success in peer review . ) Ultimately , with experience on your side , it sometimes does n't require much effort to find an angle from which something can be turned into a scientific contribution . Also , take encouragement from the fact that many of the most highly cited papers/references in the Semantic Area refer to software projects or systems of various types ( Google Scholar citations ) : Jena ( 856 ) , Sesame ( 1346 ) , Protege ( 1060 ) , DBpedia ( 1344 ) , OWL API ( 265 ) , and so forth . Being system papers , all of these papers were ( arguably ) arguable in terms of scientific contribution . Likewise , many authors in the area have made their names through works that are inherently practical while being based in industry ( e.g. , HP Labs , Talis , Bell Labs ) . Looking through the author list of some of the papers above will throw up some such names .
In favour of unrestricted dissemination After thinking about the answers provided so far and the discussion in comments , it seems to me that the point of view favouring dissemination of research results unrestricted by the double-blind peer-review process needs a stronger case . I believe that the answer can be derived from higher-level , rather philosophical , principles . ... Or is it only " good practice " not to do so [ to present results under review ] ? What is the purpose of developing and disseminating research results ? I am an idealist in these things and argue , that it is first and foremost the advancement of human knowledge and ultimately improvement of the conditions of the human society , as well as the world around us -- regardless of what exactly " improvement " means , I have in mind something like a wider social consensus that the change has a positive vector . Given this stance , unless there are other considerations in the game , there is no reason which could obstruct our advancement of human knowledge , which ultimately rests on dissemination of quality results to the wider public . Of course , we should be careful and act in a good faith so as to be cautious about validity , significance and originality of our results . Peer-review process is only an auxiliary mechanism helping us to filter out ideas/results in violation of these principles , i.e. , helps us to recognize and fix our own misjudgements and mistakes , as well as ( in the worse case ) dissemination of results not advancing knowledge of humankind , but produced for other primary purposes . After all , the ultimate metrics for the results of scientific research is not the outcome of the peer-review process , but rather the long-term impact on the society and the world around us . That is , whether other people will learn something from the results and whether it eventually helps them to build something beneficial to the society . Unfortunately , thanks to the recent proliferation of the publish-or-perish attitude and its intertwining with the need to advance human knowledge , as well as interactions of these two conflicting forces , gradually peer-review becomes primarily a mechanism to filter bad-faith products - think plagiarism , results falsification and all sorts of other scientific misconduct . Yet , I maintain , the process of filtering should not gain a higher importance than the objective of our pursuit itself . To conclude , if executed with caution , restrictions imposed by double-blind review process should not restrict our ability to disseminate our results .
There are many possible interpretations of why the students turned away from you . You should not jump to the conclusion that you are bad at teaching . For example , it is possible , judging from the information you gave in the comment , that the students simply did not wish to have a tutor , despite the good intention of the parents who hired you . This is especially common in certain East Asian countries where competition for educational resources are fierce . Moreover , depending on the type of students you tutor , your experience may not speak to your potential as a professor at all . After all , the academic need of a high school student is quite different from that of a college and graduate student . Your teaching style may work well for college students , but not so much for the high school ones . Finally , even if teaching is not your strongest suit , the experience you gain as you finish grad school and post-doc should help you build the necessary skills ( yes , teaching can be an acquired skill , not just an innate charisma ) . So depending on where you are along your education , there may still be time for improvement . Also , depending on the type of university you work in , the relative importance of research and teaching can vary considerably . So even if everything else fails , working in a research-oriented university should help a bit with the problem .
In order to answer your question , let me explain my view of copy editing and typesetting In my field , after an article is accepted it is copy edited and then typeset . The role of the copy editor is to check for consistencies with the journal style , find grammatical and typographical errors , and provide guidance to the typesetter . The copy editor often produces a short list of " author queries " where the copy editor has found " inconsistencies " ( often unused references or undefined abbreviations ) . Generally I receive a copy of the double-spaced manuscript with the copy editors markup and the typeset article . We are then expected to make sure the typeset manuscript is " correct " . I do n't think there is a difference in prestige between copy editor and typesetter , they are really different roles ( or different perspectives of the similar roles ) . You say in your comments that you do not like the title , I would talk to the publisher/editor-in-chief about changing it . You can either approach this from a graphic design vantage ( the list will look better ) or from a professional prospective ( I edit I do n't do graphic design ) . The key is you need to know what you want to be called .
It depends how you phrase it . Do not write This will be shown in a subsequent paper . Do write This and this still needs to be done . I think it is very informative to inform the audience of the next steps that need to be taken in this research . For example , shows you are aware of shortcomings of work done so far , and it can be useful to refer to in funding applications . However , there can be many reasons why next steps are not actually carried out . It might be your personal interest , but more often than not , project-specific funding runs out , PhD students or postdocs finish and move to new institutes , etcetera . This is particularly true for PhD theses . The final chapter may be full of future work , which , in many cases , is never carried out .
The practice I 'm most familiar with is that a coauthor is a coauthor is a coauthor . Anyone listed as a coauthor on the title page of the paper should be listed on the title slide of any talk about the paper , and explicitly acknowledged ( " This is joint work with ... " ) when the talk begins . Whether any of your coauthors helped you prepare your slides or the proceedings abstract is none of the audience 's business . But this attitude is clearly specific to my field , where papers only rarely have more than three authors . It might not scale so well in fields ( like particle physics ? ) where a " small " group may have 100 members .
I think the best approach is to think of them as two completely separate papers . When you write the second paper you should write it as if you have read but not authored the first . You therefore need to add the necessary background and literature review to make it stand on its own . The reason for this is that anyone who finds your ( second ) paper once published will not necessarily know of the connection , may not have read the first , and will need a reasonable introduction to the subject . So , each paper should be an entity of its own . The only clear case where this may not be necessary is if you publish two papers back to back as part 1 and 2 of a series with the same main title but differing sub-titles . Then it is clear that the papers belong together and you may expect people to note and read both papers to a larger extent .
In addition to Dave 's answer , I 'd say that in general , subjectivity is not very professional when writing academic papers . The point is to convince the reader by presenting only objective argument . Somehow , if I read a paper with something like " it 's cool , it 's amazing , that 's the best , etc " , then I might think that the author just ran out of objective arguments .
Dave 's answer is great . To add a different perspective , you should definitely put more thought into what you want to get out of graduate school . <URL> . However , your publication count definitely does , as does the people with whom you 've collaborated , the technical and research skills you 've gained , the understanding of how a research lab works , presentation skills , networking skills , and your ability to subsist on ramen noodles . It 's very easy for a graduate student to lose sight of what 's important , particularly when it just looks like " work on this " . At the very least , I would talk with your graduate advisor or another professor in the department to get their perspective on the task you 're being asked to do . It may very well be something very useful for your career , even though at first blush it seems like busywork . To bring this back to your immediate question , the only research you need to do is the research upon which your funding is based . If this does not fall into that category , you are under no obligation to do the requested project . However , I strongly recommend you consider the benefit that performing this research may provide in the long run ; most likely , it 's something that will in some way or other make you a more skilled ( and marketable ) researcher when you 're done .
First I would check if the school has a formal procedure for auditing . For example , my school wants auditors to pay as if they were attending the class , and they also have insurance concerns if , e.g. , a student is hurt in a chem lab and it turns out that they were n't enrolled . You can get this info from the school 's web site or catalog . If that 's not an issue , then I would just send a brief email and ask permission . There are unlikely to be any objections , but it would be polite to ask . Some conceivable problems : There might be a shortage of seating . In certain subjects ( e.g. , languages ) or in classes using certain teaching methods , it might be expected that students will participate actively . The quality of the discussion or activities might be worse if there is an auditor who is n't taking the course seriously . The professor might want to talk to you for your benefit to see if you have enough of a background to get anything out of the class . Personally it does n't bother me if an auditor 's attendance is irregular .
Should I inform the project teacher , to have them exposed to the exam committee ? Yes . Tell the teacher exactly what you know : that there is a game that seems very similar to your classmates ' project . As a student , it 's not your responsibility to decide what is and is n't plagiarism , or to decide who should be punished for dishonesty and who should n't , or to start a " movement " to let the cheaters know you 're onto them . If you believe you have evidence of misconduct , report it and let the administration handle it from there .
Contact the editor you worked with and let them know . They will advise you of your options and hopefully work with you to update the online version and ( if possible ) either delay or fix the print version .
Universities typically consider such intent statements to be binding . If you submit these statements to multiple universities , they will all hold seats for you , seats which could otherwise go to someone from their waiting list . This hurts those other applicants . It is also a serious inconvenience to the department 's admissions committee , as they need to meet their enrollment targets as closely as possible ; failure to do so can affect their funding , and in extreme cases , the survival of the graduate program . So this is at least inconsiderate on your part , and arguably unethical . If the institutions find out that you have done this , it is possible that they may rescind their acceptances ; this is uncommon but has been known to happen . In addition , you would certainly forfeit any deposits that you paid . At the undergraduate level , where deposits are almost always required ( in the US ) , this practice is called " double depositing " . The National Association for College Admission Counseling , in their " <URL> " , says : Colleges view dual or multiple deposits by students as serious violations of trust and may revoke a previous offer of admission from any student who is found to have sent tuition deposits to more than one college . My advice is this : at this point , you should plan on attending the university X to which you 've announced your intent . However , if you are absolutely convinced that doing so would be a huge mistake ( not merely that you think Y is a little bit better ) , then you could contact the admissions committee at X , explain your reasons , apologize , and ask to be released from your agreement . If you do this , you should do it as soon as possible ( ideally within days - do n't stew about it for two weeks ) , and know that it will probably burn your bridges with X , as well as forfeiting your deposit . If X says it 's all right ( they probably will - if you do n't want to be there , they do n't want you there ) , then you could send your intent to Y . Some people might argue that you are also ethically obligated to inform Y of the situation . I think it 's kind of a gray area , myself . You might also discuss the matter with an advisor or other professor at your current institution . They might offer some perspective on X that would help reassure you . In general , most people say that it is n't so crucial which institution you attend , within reason - your own skills and motivation are a much greater factor in your success .
Your question has some issues . Given <URL> <URL> <URL> on other SE sites in the last few days , I have some reservations about whether your question is being asked in good faith , but taken on its own merits it is a reasonable question so I will try to answer it . The main issue is that , even in asking this relatively simple question , your writing is far from clear . If you can not write clearly in this situation , your chances of writing up a difficult piece of mathematics or theoretical computer science are less than good . For instance : His/Her supervisor ( s ) accept the work and they published it in a highly known journal and they get rejected . Laying aside issues of subject/verb agreement and consistency of tense , the entire sentence does n't make sense : you ca n't publish a paper and get rejected . It breaks what most people believe I do n't know what it means to " break what most people believe " . or what they have already proven , What ? Are you saying that your proof contradicts other proven results ? Taken literally , that would mean that you have shown mathematics to be inconsistent . In practice this could only mean that if your result is correct then some previously published work is incorrect . If that 's the case then you need to be very clear about that and explain the flaws in the earlier work . It distresses me that you do n't really seem to believe this but are just throwing it off as loose language . i.e. , He/She solves the P vs. NP problem or any other well known open problem . Solving an open problem would not " break what people have already proven " ... that 's what it means for the problem to be open . Also saying " P vs. NP problem or any other well known open problem " is a strange bit of coyness : there is no other problem in theoretical computer science ( and very few to none in mathematics as a whole ) which is " like " P vs. NP . So it does n't make sense to give that as an example . It 's like saying " i.e. , he found the Holy Grail or some other famous cup " . In other questions you have spoken specifically about having a proof of P vs. NP and then upon questioning have retreated from this . This sort of vacillation about what you have done is a red flag of " crankiness " that will make professionals wary . The reviewers strongly reject his/her work with no justification and they said that the result must be wrong . Saying that the result must be wrong is not just a justification for rejection , it 's the best justification . No professional reviewer will say something is wrong lightly . Almost any reviewer who says this will point to at least one specific error . If they do not , then in practice it almost certainly means that the entire document did not make enough sense to them to be more specific . If your advisor accepts the work , the reviewers reject the work without even explain the mistakes ( it is the " best " journal in his/her domain ) then what he/she must do ? If you submit a paper to the top journal in your field claiming a solution to the top problem in your field , and your paper does not make sense or does not evince even a correct understanding of the problem , then the editors are likely not to want to spend much time in response . On the other hand , if you are sincerely interested in getting their expertise , it seems reasonable to write back very politely and ask for more specifics about the error . If your response is in any way argumentative then you risk the editorial staff thinking that you will keep hounding them ad infinitum , and at some point they have to stop replying . So you should write back saying that you are not considering resubmitting the paper to that journal but for your own progress it would be extremely helpful to know what is wrong with it . You could also mention that your supervisor found the paper to be correct . In fact you could be getting more help on this from your supervisor . If you have really " solved P vs. NP problem or any other well known open problem " and your supervisor believes your solution to be correct , why is n't your supervisor moving heaven and earth to be sure your work is getting the attention it deserves ? That does n't add up . The two possible explanations seem to be ( i ) your supervisor is being too polite with you : s/he does not actually believe that you have solved P vs. NP ; and ( ii ) your advisor 's imprimatur does not carry any weight in the community whatsoever . The latter unfortunately means his/her opinion on the correctness of your work is not worth very much . A good way to find out whether it 's ( i ) , ( ii ) or -- I do admit that anything is possible ! perhaps the top journal in your field is unfairly ignoring your revolutionary work -- is to seek your advisor 's help in getting another faculty member to evaluate the work , preferably someone in the department that you can speak to recently . Finally , you seem to have some real worries that if an unknown person solves a famous problem then it somehow does n't co
It depends how well-known and wide-spread the result is . If by now it is a very well-known result and the publication already happened quite some time ago , it may not be necessary to quote the original paper . In doubt I 'd quote the article and the books , or at least one of the books . A possible formulation could be : The result below is due to Paul [ reference to article ] ; we recall it in the form given in a monograph by Miller [ reference to book ] . I do not think it is necessary to have read the original paper to be entitled to write this . If it is not too much work to track it down , it could still make sense to at least take a peek at the article you quote .
end question
start question
Does mathematical sophistication play a role during paper review ?
Mathematical sophistication and mathematical density are often confused for one another , and this confusion often extends to reviewers and the " customs " of scientific communities . To my mind , the best mathematical presentation is the most lucid and simple , and it is certainly the case that important consequences often come from rather simple equations . The simpler your equations , however , the more that the contribution of the paper will depend on your exploration of those consequences ( theoretically or empirically ) , rather than the mathematics per se . It can be very tempting to " puff up " the perceived complexity of your mathematics by adding notational complexity or other baroquery . It may even work well when dealing with some communities ( I know of some rather cynical and unfortunately successful experiments performed by certain colleagues of mine ) . I would strongly advise , however , against doing so . Write the paper as clearly and simply as possible , given the true nature of the mathematics within . Doing so may incur negative judgement from those who confuse " simple " and " trivial , " but to do otherwise is scientifically dishonest . Moreover , if your work has value , it will show in the consequences of the mathematics rather than its nature , and writing it more accessibly is likely , in the long run , to increase its impact . Finally , note that this dictum goes the other way as well : when you are presenting a complex mathematical result to an audience that does not appreciate mathematical complexity , do not attempt to pretend the mathematics is not complex . In this case , however , appendices and supplementary information is the way to go : keep only as much of key elements in the main text as is appropriate for the audience , and put the rest where those who are interested can readily find it without interrupting the flow of the main text .
The end of the semester particularly the period between the end of lectures and when students finally leave campus ( which may be well after you 've submitted grades ) can be the busiest part of the semester because that 's when you spend a lot of time dealing individually with students that have questions , complaints , or problems . The reason that this is so time consuming is that there are typically lots of these students , and each complaining student can easily take an hour out of your day . Meanwhile you may also be grading a lot of term papers or student projects and you 're also busy writing , proctoring , and grading final exams .
If your work should be compared to a software tool , then you should compare it to that software tool . Actually comparing , however , can be tricky for a couple of reasons : Closed commercial software often hides its workings , such that it is difficult to tell how it actually operates . Live software projects are a moving target , and features today may be gone tomorrow . Thus , for example , if you were comparing a contextual text search to the methods used by Google , it would be very difficult to do that just in a " related works " section because their methods are hidden and constantly changing . Instead , you 'd need to take experimental data on its behavior in some period ( or cite somebody else who had ) . For this reason , whenever possible it is generally preferable to reference a paper about the software rather than the software per se . Most significant academic software will have an associated website with a section on " how to cite this " or a list of associated papers ( e.g. , <URL> ) , which will give you appropriate sources to cite in your discussion . If there is no such citation available , however , or if the existing citations are not appropriate , then you can cite the tool directly : there are established conventions for citing software tools . I also sometimes cite both a key paper and the live tool , when the tool has expanded well beyond the associated literature .
The answer to this depends on the state of the filing and the particulars of the publication venue . If you have n't filed anything yet , you definitely are n't required to disclose , and more than you are required to cite a paper that has n't been submitted yet . After all , any number of things might prevent the filing from happening . Also , if you disclose before filing , it could screw up your patent . If you have filed , then it depends on whether the venue requires you to disclose a conflict of interest . For example , PLoS ONE is very picky about conflict disclosure , but most IEEE venues do not care . A patent filing ( preliminary or full ) , is reasonable to treat as a conflict of interest . If you 're not sure , though , then the people handling your patent will almost certainly be willing to help you figure out the right way to handle it . In my experience , the IP offices of many institutions are very happy when researchers are actually willing to engage with them and will be very helpful to you .
First off : Using review papers as a guide line for your review is perfectly normal . What you should consider is , that even if the review is comprehensive , since its release there has been new research and publications were released that you should address . Personally I do n't think there is anything wrong with using review papers for tracking down other papers , but the least you can do is to also cite the review paper and remark that the review has a good take on the topic . If you have any additions or own takes on the reviewer 's opinion : do that ! Discuss why you added other papers to your literature that the author neglected , give a different order to the topics if you prefer it , etc. . In a historical context it might be difficult to change many things , but you should try not to copy it too much . As long as you formulate own sentences , your 're fine .
A review paper is likely also known as a " survey paper " , where you read ( i.e. survey ) related works in the field and then comment on them . Usually , a review paper should be able to contribute a small amount of knowledge in its own right to the field by providing a taxonomy of work . Another type of paper that reviews extensively related work but is n't actually a review paper is a <URL> in which you usually ask a meta-question about the field . If it appears in a refereed , peer-reviewed journal , then yes , it is a publication . In fact , if done well , these works can often have pretty high impact and can be cited very frequently . However , as already noted , since they do n't usually involve substantial original research they need to be augmented with traditional research papers . If a graduate student has only survey papers or systematic review papers , I 'd wonder as a search committee reviewer if this student did nothing but read related work rather than working on research . With respect to MS or PhD applications , I 'd think that the fact that you have a publication at all is already a bonus point for you . Most students who apply to these programs do n't have publications .
Once a person have graduated , there is not generally any remaining formal role for the Ph.D. advisor . In theory , a Ph.D. qualifies them as generally capable of independent scientific research , and they have no requirement to depend on their academic " parent " any more . In practice , however , no person is an island . Most researchers do much better as part of a network of like-minded colleagues who can serve as friends and allies . The Ph.D. advisor is a natural starting point for building such a network , both as someone likely to be a like-minded ally and also by helping build connections based on their own existing network . As the more junior colleague in the relationship , the benefits of interaction are likely to flow more more from the advisor to the former student , but the relationship is likely to grow more peer-like over time . Just as with a biological parent , even after formal independence , this connection is likely to last a lifetime ( but may not if the relationship is not good ) . Also like biological parents , however , Ph.D. advisors ( and others ) often have a hard time adjusting their perspective and seeing their former students as fully " grown up . " This is part of why it 's important not only to maintain a connection with one 's advisor , but also to clearly establish a separate research identity .
In general no . There may be some circumstance when it can be necessary but the proofing stage is too late for any substantial changes . The manuscript should be published in the form it has been accepted and it is an authors responsibility to provide a final version of the manuscript which ideally should not require any changes once type-set and provided in the form of a proof . Changes that are acceptable are changes that do not in any way change the science of the paper . If any major changes are done to the paper at proofing , the editor will likely decide whether or not these are permissible . What would happen if anyone tries to push substantial changes altering the core science of the paper probably varies , but in the worst case the paper might have to undergo new review .
A few things that have really helped reduce the stress in writing for me : Writing the introduction first and the abstract last . Hopefully , the background to your research wo n't significantly change during the writing process , so your introduction should be pretty static during the whole writing process . On the other hand , I 've found that as I write a paper , what I believe to be the important aspects of the paper often changes with the writing process . As such , my first idea of what the abstract should be is often completely different than the final abstract . Starting with a skeleton of the manuscript ( i.e. titles of sections and subsections , with an explicit plan of what should go where ) . This allows you to break up all the writing and work in separate chunks . I found that I was surprised how much stress is involved in moving paragraphs around and trying to keep a good flow to the paper . Starting with putting words on paper ( that is , LaTeX , Word , etc. ) with little concern for quality ! My first draft is always going to be horrible , so my first goal is to put all the ideas down , just to get all the ideas on the paper . I 'll worry how it looks later . Plus , there 's nothing more frustrating than putting a lot of work in the " perfect paragraph " , ultimately to decide it is not necessary for the manuscript . Working in consistent , but divided blocks . I have to take the train for 2 hours everyday to get to work and back . But I 'm amazed how much using these two blocks of time seems to help the quality ( and reduce the stress ) of my writing ! When I try to write everything in huge blocks , my patience and attention to detail drops , leading to a sloppy writing . But when I consistently work in small blocks , my overall patience level is much higher .
I have made a request of this kind once , and it was granted by the editor . The referee in question was positive about the paper but had a significant misunderstanding of the subject area . The other referee had recommended acceptance of the paper in its current form . After a couple of rounds of refereeing , it seemed likely that resolving this misunderstanding might require many more iterations without any benefit to the paper . In this particular case , the associate editor handling the paper understood the subject area well enough to recognize this , and agreed to assign a new referee . Of course , starting from zero with a new referee after multiple rounds of revising is not ideal either , so consider carefully before you make such a request .
The main point of a PhD is to learn how to be a scientist . Involved in this is to focus on the work that needs to be done but also to pick up the necessary skill to solve the problem . As an advisor , I would get nervous if a student kept moving into new areas without a plan as to what these would be useful for . So from that perspective , if a student made good progress on the research , diversions would not be a concern ; without progress , it would be a problem . Where you stand in this is not for anyone to say except based on a discussion between you and your advisor . During my own PhD , I spent a fair amount learning tools that were only of marginal use in my own work . I am now very happy I did because as now a long-time faculty member , I have come to realize that the time I had as a PhD student to immerse in topics , is hard if not impossible to recreate after the PhD . I therefore advise PhD students to use their time wisely since the tools they learn during their PhD make up the core of their future toolbox . Contacts with other researchers and research directions is a similar issue in my mind . BUT , I always had in my mind that I needed to show progress and stay with my own research tasks as a priority . Balancing between the core work and forays into other areas is a necessity . From your question , it does not sound as if you have a good balance and I therefore think you need to discuss the thesis work more with your advisor to make sure it is clear and structured to you . Only then will you be able to see your won progress and judge when you are on track .
In the areas in which I work , there are no formal rules and it is left up to the author when to separate an equation and when to embed it in the text . When I am writing , I find that there are three fairly straightforward principles that work well for me in determining whether an equation ( or other mathematical statement ) deserves its own line or can be inline with the text : Will I need to refer to the equation elsewhere ? If so , it needs its own line , and equation numbering as well . Is it more than ~ 1/3 of a line long ? Anything so long that it is likely to get broken across lines and otherwise be a typographical mess should be pulled out onto its own line . Numbering is not required . Do I want the reader to " pause " and contemplate the equation , or do I want it to " flow " as part of the sentence encompassing it ? This last needs a little bit more explanation ... let 's elaborate on one of the examples from the original question . If I write the sentence this way : We know that the identity a ^ 2 + b ^ 2 = c ^ 2 holds true if the system is in condition X. then the equation should be inline , because the sentence is really about condition X , rather than about the equation . If , on the other hand , the reader 's attention should be directed to the equation , then it is better to use something like the following form , with the equation on its own line : We know that if the system is in condition X , then the following identity holds : a ^ 2 + b ^ 2 = c ^ 2 Note : these principles reduce to a similar effect as the style guide given by @silvado
Being invited to present a paper or give a keynote is an honour . It shows that the community recognizes your work . Of course , it is also a way to further advertise your work , or to reflect on what you have done . Generally , the audience is larger for invited speakers . One accepts the invitation if one has time and prestige of the conference matches one 's reputation . If you have a small reputation , an invited talk at a workshop is an honour . If you are super-famous , you 'll tend to only accept invitations to prestigious events . The cost may depend on how much money the conference has in its budget , which will often depend on the sponsors . Sometimes the conference will waive the registration fee , often they may provide accommodation also , and sometimes they may even cover airfare . Bigger conferences will be able to cover more of the costs . Small workshops may not be able to cover any of the costs .
I recently reviewed a paper in a similar situation . The paper was good but some relevant publications I was aware of ( not mine ) probably should have been cited . When writing the review I simply suggested the specific topic which should be referred to , rather than specific papers . That way the suggestion is there and all they have to do is look . They got a couple of papers that I had in mind , and some others , so all was well in the end . I do n't personally agree with suggesting citation of your own papers directly in a review since as you point out this leads to suspicion of the identity of the reviewer , but also because reviews should be impartial as far as possible . If a paper that I authored is the most relevant work then any proper search will find it , if not then something else equally suitable will probably be ok for most readers .
I agree with all of @Nate Eldredge 's comments . If you have a good relationship with your advisor , you should be able to say " This paper lies outside of my field of expertise . I do n't feel qualified to review it ; in fact , even to understand it at a basic level would require me to spend substantial time familiarizing myself with the terminology of a different academic field . " According to your comments , you do not feel comfortable saying this to your advisor . So here is what I would suggest instead : do the reviewing together with your advisor , in person . So for instance you could begin by saying " I started reading the paper you assigned me , and I have some questions I 'd like to discuss with you . When can we meet to talk about it ? " Then when you meet you can begin to engage with all the unfamiliar stuff and see for yourself how far away it really is from your interests and those of your advisor . If it turns out that your advisor does n't understand the paper either , I would try to subtly lead him to the conclusion that neither of you should be reviewing it . If he tries to shove it onto you , reiterate that you are doing it but that you want to get his input . If necessary , ask a question of the form " How would you handle this review job if you were in my place ? " The point being that the advisor is in your place since he is the one who has been asked to do the reviewing . To pull this off properly may require some verbal aikido . The worst case scenario is that after all this your advisor makes clear to you that he does n't care that neither of your have the expertise to review this paper ; he wants you to do it anyway . At that point he is asking you to commit academic dishonesty , and you will be in a tough spot : you will have to decide whether turning in a noncommittal review of a paper that you do n't understand is the least evil .
Not necessarily . Copyright prohibits you from presenting the work as yours under any circumstances . In addition , it prohibits you from publishing or recopying large segments of the work , without securing the permission of the owner of the copyright . However , the existence of copyright does not exclude you from citing the work of others , nor mentioning what their key ideas are . Such use of copyright is covered by <URL> . Under these circumstances , though , you are still responsible for following the proper citation procedures of your university or the journal to which you are submitting the work under question . Note , however , that this is a tricky balance , and you should be careful to directly quote only the material you absolutely need to duplicate , as fair use is not an absolute guideline .
Yes , refer to Project X without stating that it is yours . In my field , <URL> for conferences that are double-blind reviewed often say : Do not omit references to provide anonymity , as this leaves the reviewer unable to grasp the context . Instead , a good solution is to reference your past work in the third person , just as you would any other piece of related work . In reality , of course it is often obvious that the paper under review is likely to be an extension of the cited work by the same author . However , as an author , it is not your responsibility to make sure that the reviewers can never identify you . It is only your responsibility to make a good-faith effort to preserve the anonymity of your submission , while at the same time allowing the reader to fully grasp the context of related past work , including your own . Citing your own previous work in the third person is a good faith effort to preserve anonymity , and ( at least in my field ) that 's all that 's required .
Publishing In mathematics , most people will judge your research on its merits , not based on your credentials or affiliations . So this is not an issue , if you are able to generate significant results and write them up in a clear way . Seminars I have seen many members of the public regularly attend seminars . I 've never heard of them being kicked out . It 's not an issue . Funding The primary drawback is that you wo n't be paid for your research if you are just doing it in your spare time . Unless you are already independently wealthy , that means you will have relatively little time for research since you need a day job . It is of course possible to get grants to fund your research without being in academia ; there are a number of private entities in the US funded entirely by grants , and many of them include mathematicians . But you said spare time only . Collaboration Another drawback is that you wo n't be in close contact with other researchers by default . It would n't be impossible to establish that contact , but again you must consider whether you will have the time . And people wo n't take you seriously unless you have serious results . Not getting a PhD In mathematics , even more than in other fields , it is almost impossible to make a contribution without spending several years learning what is already known . In principle you could do that without getting a PhD , but why would you ?
In general , postdoctoral positions -- unlike faculty positions ( in the US ) -- are considered to be 12-month positions , with the salaries determined accordingly . You are not normally expected to provide your own funding for the summer months , nor are you expected to find outside employment . If this is not the case , then it should be explicitly mentioned in the advertisement for the position . However , this is so rarely encountered that it would be very much outside the norm for postdocs .
You must cite your source every time you use someone else 's intellectual contributions . A review article contributes curation of sources ( among other things ) as its intellectual content . If you use that intellectual content , you must cite the review paper ( in addition to the individual sources ) . Otherwise you are misleading the reader into believing that you 've done all that work ( reading very broadly in the literature , identifying the most relevant and useful sources ) yourself .
end question
start question
Who all are considered authors of papers written on behalf of a research group ?
I 'll give my perspective , as an Epidemiologist : It depends . Helpful , I know . Often the reason there 's a " on behalf of the X group " is that some small analysis has been pulled out of a larger study , and the named authors on the paper want to acknowledge that their results are the byproduct of a larger effort . A large clinical trial , or cohort trial for example , can spawn dozens of papers and secondary analysis done by doctoral students , small component research groups , etc. . For example , this paper is ( I think ) the result of the " Epi proColon " clinical trial currently being conducted by the manufacturer . It 's a head to head comparison with ' FIT ' - fecal immunochemical testing - to detect colon cancer . The paper you linked is an ancillary analysis of that , noting a particular finding that , while of interest to the field and clearly enough for a short paper , would n't ever make the " main " paper cut when the results of the clinical trial are published . @Raphael has asserted that he thinks there should be a difference between " I turned a skrew " and " I wrote the paper " . The problem for Epidemiology studies is that 's often somewhat ambiguous . For example , many clinical sites are directed by people who do n't really care about publications , being professional clinicians , but are still instrumental enough in the conducting of the study that they could arguably be included as authors . If you only had one of these , sure , toss it in as authorship . But what if you 're running a multi-site clinical trial at ten sites ? Do you include all ten ? After all , they saw patients . The " group " authorship is a useful way to acknowledge that . They can cite those papers on grant applications , " why should we continue to support your diagnostic lab " progress reports , etc. . It 's a compromise position for trying to tighten up who is an author while at the same time supporting large , collaborative science . Those authorship acknowledgements also serve to make something " the official position of X study group " . You often see that in vaccine trials and the like . That being said , unless I was a named author on the paper , I likely would n't include it on my CV if I was anything but a very new investigator . But part of the point of these papers is that who is a named author is a rotating list . The Epidemiologists write their epidemiology papers , the clinicians write clinical papers , the lab people write lab papers , the biostatisticians write ... you get the idea . So everyone publishes named in their niche , but the group effort is acknowledged for the entire productive output of the study .
Inherently ? No . While it might be good for science generally , they 're under no obligation to do so . That being said , some funding agencies require data be made available as a condition of their support , and some journals require it as a condition of publication . Absent that though , there 's no obligation to do so .
<URL> recently of the most cited papers in Web of Science . At the top , with more than 300k citations , was a methods paper : Protein measurement with the folin phenol reagent . Lowry , O. H. , Rosebrough , N. J. , Farr , A. L. &amp; Randall , R. J. J. Biol . Chem . 193 , 265 -- 275 ( 1951 ) .
There is nothing wrong or unusual in submitting two papers on a single conference . For specific detail you should refer to the conference author guide . In my experience , there exists an upper bound of papers ( about 3-4 ) , but I have never encountered a conference where only a single paper was permitted . The acceptance or rejection is individual , every paper is peer-reviewed on its own account . You should keep in mind that the conference will charge every paper separately . You should also watch the presentation schedule for any conflicts ( though , they are very unlikely )
There are certainly papers citing patents , mostly in engineering fields . So , yes it is certainly OK to cite a patent . Now patents have an entirely different purpose than scientific articles . They usually contain detailed descriptions of methods and devices and ( sometimes wild ) speculations about practical applications of these . Useful to protect potential commercial use , but not really to scientists wanting to build on existing knowledge . More specifically , what they typically do n't contain are original experimental data , or other means of scientifically evaluating the described methods or devices . Very often , if the development of the patented method or device has led to scientific discoveries , these have been published separately as articles ( or conference proceedings for the fields where that applies ) . Those will be much more scientifically informative , and hence more likely to be cited in academic articles .
Yes , it is . English is a lingua franca , but that does n't mean that all scholarly literature must be in English . Make sure your paper is in a institutional or disciplinary repository , if you like the idea of your paper to be open access . Translate it , as Davidmh suggests , to make it even more available . Regarding indexing in Google Scholar , that depends by the site you archive your paper into . You can make <URL> , but in my experience even if you suggest resources to GS you can not be sure you 'll be .
According to the Committee on Publication Ethics , retraction is a possibility . See their <URL> , page 2 : Retractions are also used to alert readers to [ ... ] failure to disclose a major competing interest likely to influence interpretations or recommendations . The Retraction Watch blog <URL> how often this is carried out in practice .
From the <URL> this is what you need to site in APA Author , A. A. ( Year ) . Title of chapter . In B. B. Editor ( Ed . ) , Title of book [ E-reader version , if applicable ] ( pp . xxx -- xxx ) . Retrieved from <URL> You will see in the <URL> that you should only list seven authors . So your chapter citation should look like this . I 'm assuming this is the chapter you are referring to at this <URL> . De Groot , R , Ramakrishnan , P.S , Van De Berg , A , Kulenthran , , T , Muller , S , Pitt , D , ... Rossler , M. ( 2005 ) . Chapter 17 Cultural and Amenity Services ( Xu Jianchu and Hebe Vessuri Ed . ) . In Rashid Hassan , Robert Scholes , and Neville Ash ( Ed . ) , Ecosystems and Human Well-being : Current State and Trends ( Vol . 1 , The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment , pp. 455-476 ) . Washington : Island Press . For in text citations use the following <URL> Six or More Authors : Use the first author 's name followed by et al. in the signal phrase or in parentheses . Harris et al. ( 2001 ) argued ... ( Harris et al. , 2001 )
It is not entirely unreasonable to include a citation in an abstract , if the reason you are citing it is because your paper is a major extension , rebuttal , or counterpoint to the cited article . In that case , however , you do have the responsibility of providing the reference within the body of the abstract . For example , We extend upon the results of Smith [ Journal of Very Important Results , 1 , 374 ( 2012 ) ] to include the effects of a doohickey at the end of the thingamajig . In such a case , the abstract remains self-contained , with an important citation included . ( This is especially essential if an author is well-known for multiple papers , in which case the reference can be used to distinguish the varous works that could be intended . ) Large numbers of citations , however , should be avoided , as should " secondary " citations . Only the most critical literature for a paper should be cited , and that should normally be limited to one or two . Any more than that , and the abstract becomes hard to read .
Your question is largely a false dichotomy . For instance , there 's no reason a paper written by one of your students ca n't involve collaborators at your institution or from other institutions as well . So long as your students are publishing , and you 're establishing a network , I would n't worry about trying to prioritize one over the other , unless your institution 's promotion and tenure regulations have something specific to say in the matter .
There is often a substantial delay between when the author finishes a paper and when the paper is actually published . The author may not be totally aware of the publishing date . This is why the authors do not include the date . The date is generally found in/on the book/proceedings that the paper is published in . This is the date that should be used for referencing a paper .
Some journals implement a double-blind reviewing process , meaning that the reviewers are not aware that the authors are from academia or not , and only the scientific content is judged . That being said , it 's worth mentioning that it would be hard for someone without a proper " paper-writing " training ( such as the one one can acquire in academia ) , to produce a paper that would be accepted by reviewers . Some general structure is expected , such as related Works , critical discussion , rigorous methodology , and I would say that without that , it would be hard to get the paper published ( I have myself rejected papers from graduate students , not because the idea itself was bad , but because the structure and the presentation were not meeting the standards one could expect for a scientific publication ) . EDIT : After reformulation of the question , assuming that the quality of the paper makes it indistinguishable from any other paper , then , no , as far as I know , there is no general policy regarding the official affiliation of the author ( s ) . For instance , in Computer Science , it 's not rare to see papers published by people working in a " normal " company ( i.e. not a research company ) , typically on some concrete problems/solutions they have found . Some people even keep publishing after starting their own startup , and therefore the affiliation is something like " MyCompanyWeb2 .0 " .
Applicants who have already begun their undergraduate education at another institution and wish to transfer into this one .
I am an applied mathematician and I ca n't work without paper and pencil and in most cases I ca n't get things done without a computer . My computer ca n't tell me in advance if my algorithm will converge , at what rate and what the error will be . My computer ca n't figure out how to discretize some new problem ( unless I tell him how ) . My computer ( up to now ) never had a great idea . On the other hand , I ca n't invert matrices with pen and paper and I even can multiply a large matrix like that . In fact I ca n't even store most data I use on paper ... ( and also access rates for data on paper are pretty slow ) . tl ; dr I basically always use paper , pen and computer .
This is a historical anachronism . The fonts are chosen for the print version of the journal . For a print version , if you use a smaller font , you can squeeze more text onto the same page and print the same paper on fewer pages -- which saves money . So , for print publications , the small font size arguably makes sense . However , today print is less important and the digital format is more important , but journal requirements have n't caught up to this fact . For instance , in computer science , the ACM is a notorious offender : they require papers to use 9pt fonts , which are very small .
You should not base this document on your dreams , but on your plans . You need to write about the impact of the position on your academic profile in view of its potential effects on your depicted plans for the future . In contrast to the SoP , you better merely focus on the future and denouements , in this case . As a matter of fact , every post-doc researcher has implicit mental themes , corresponding to his/her plans for joining the academia in a specific manner . For example , just consider a researcher , who does work in the field of biomedical engineering . He/she might be eager to chase a typical faculty position in the realm of the tissue engineering . Furthermore , suppose that he/she has applied for a post-doc position about the design and manipulation of the chemical polymers to invent new kinds of the cardiovascular tissues . Now , if he/she is supposed to declare the impact of this project on development of his/her academic profile , he/she could assert that this project would , considerably , expand his mind not only to dig into the more multidisciplinary projects between different departments , but also even to show the probable tendency to join a variety of departments , such as medical and science , instead of the engineering schools . That was just a typical reasonable justification for declaration of the potential impact . You need to determine the outcomes of the program upon your specific case and elaborate them , efficiently .
It depends on the subfield of computer science . For example , if the paper is in theoretical computer science , then author order is alphabetical , and the equal work put in by the authors is not negated by the author ordering . If in a discipline where author order is meaningful , then it 's standard practice to ( say ) order the authors alphabetically and add a footnote saying that all authors contributed equally to the work .
From my experience , researchers are free to re-use a given dataset as many times as they want in numerous publications . I 've been involved in single datasets ( which , admittedly , took years to build ) that generated dozens of papers , and that is by no means a unique scenario . My understanding is that researchers are to refrain from publishing an identical analysis on an identical dataset in different papers . If you 're using a single dataset for multiple analyses , there 's no need to re-generate the data .
The rules of thumb are : Established facts are reported in the present tense ( " The path of light follows Fermat 's principle of least time " ) . However , you should use the past tense when you refer to previous work in the field ( " Maxwell et al. demonstrated clearly in a laser cavity experiment that no mirror is perfect " ) . The experiments , simulations or calculations you performed are narrated in the past tense ( " We dissolved the remaining solid in a 5:1 solution of acetone and benzonitrile , and heated to 200 ° C for three hours . " ) Discussion of the data presented in the paper uses the present tense ( " The results obtained , shown in Fig. 3 , clearly emphasize that the cell colonies grew faster on pink toothbrushes than green ones . We attribute this to the color-sensitivity , or kawai factor . " ) Mathematical proofs are written using the present tense , because going through the proof occurs at the time of reading ( " From Eqn . 1 , we derive the following system of inequalities " ) . Overall , the choice of tenses is actually pretty logical .
I disagree with the assumption that top journals with slow turnaround times are more highly regarded than top conferences with quicker turnaround times . In most ( all ? ) areas of computer science , the most competitive conferences are at least as highly regarded as the top journals . It is also not unusual for longer versions of conference papers to later be submitted to journals . As David Patterson ( UC Berkeley ) , Larry Snyder ( University of Washington ) , and Jeffrey Ullman wrote in <URL> : The evaluation of computer science and engineering faculty for promotion and tenure has generally followed the dictate " publish or perish , " where " publish " has had its standard academic meaning of " publish in archival journals " [ Academic Careers , 94 ] . Relying on journal publications as the sole demonstration of scholarly achievement , especially counting such publications to determine whether they exceed a prescribed threshold , ignores significant evidence of accomplishment in computer science and engineering . For example , conference publication is preferred in the field , and computational artifacts -- software , chips , etc. -- are a tangible means of conveying ideas and insight . Obligating faculty to be evaluated by this traditional standard handicaps their careers , and indirectly harms the field . This document describes appropriate evidence of academic achievement in computer science and engineering . Your research advisor should be able to provide you advice more specific to your case . I agree with amirg that having any publications when applying to a PhD program ( especially based on undergraduate research ) makes you exceptional . Your advisor 's recommendation also counts a lot , especially if he or she is well known .
end question
start question
How to cite from a book with more authors ?
Remember the guiding principle of maximum ease in following a reference . If you do n't know which author , cite primarily to the book . From " Book title " , by x , y , and z In fact , even if there is only one author , it is good to cite the book .
For typical journals , you do n't actually have to implement all the reviewer 's suggestions to get the paper published . After all , it 's not like the reviewer necessarily knows better than you do what is going to make your paper publishable . ( If multiple reviewers all make the same suggestion , that 's a different story . ) If you have a good reason not to do something suggested by a reviewer , you can not do it and point out in your response to the editor why you made that decision . The important thing is to make it clear that you did n't simply decide to ignore part of the reviewer 's report . If you 're going to avoid implementing any of their recommendations , you do need to justify it . It then falls to the editor to decide whether the paper is still publishable without that particular suggestion being implemented . I 'd add that saying that an addition to the paper would be too large and would justify an entire followup study on its own is a valid response . Even a reasonably common one , I would think . Reviewers have n't done the research themselves ; they do n't know how much work an extension would take , and if you say it would be too involved , there 's a pretty good chance the editor believes that you know better than the reviewer on that point .
A PhD should be based on an original contribution to knowledge . This is generally published at research conferences and in journals . Material , such as a book , treating topics that already are well-known generally do not contribute to the PhD dissertation . The only exception is if you were to write an excellent synthesis of a field , then that could be included as a part of your PhD dissertation , as such a thing would be an original contribution to knowledge . Writing a book may actually hinder your progress to obtaining a PhD , because it too will take a lot of time . That said , I do not wish to encourage you on this issue . But there are already plenty of books about Java and Operating Systems , and I questions the value of writing more .
From a student 's point of view , here is how I tackle the situation . You can break it down by the circumstances in which you meet , and thus guesstimate how much time the professor has for you . Asking " may I talk to / email you later about ... ? " can be useful if it 's not the right time and place for a useful discussion . DTK 's answer has good points about how you should approach a conversation . Of course there will be some variations depending on the culture and environment of your department , and how well you know the prof you 're talking to . Hallway / elevator encounters If they look busy or rushed , perhaps best save it till later . Otherwise , keep questions very brief , concisely answerable , and related to something you know they 're interested in ( i.e. their own research field ) . Discussions at semi-social occasions , such as at a gathering after a seminar , or breaks at a conference Here , the professor probably has no immediate obligations or things urgently pressing on his or her mind ( or else they 'd have disappeared by now ) . This is a better opportunity to ask broader or more complicated questions , or if they work in a related field you could ask for an opinion on a problem you 've been thinking about . Social occasions such as at lunchtime , conference dinner , etc. . As above , but they may even prefer to talk about something other than their own field of expertise -- sports , politics , an interesting paper from a completely unrelated discipline that you read whilst procrastinating , etc. . If you do n't know the professor very well , you might want to wait for him or her to initiate steering the conversation in that direction .
The illegal act of course is the download , never the citation . @Federico Poloni answered that correctly . However : If they are n't available in the university library , if you ca n't really afford the books besides the possibilities @StasK mentioned : In many countries there exist inter-library catalogues ( e.g. <URL> ) that tell you which libraries have the book you 're looking for . Once you know that ( or your local librarian found out for you ) , you can ask your local librarian to either get the whole book via inter-library loan , or to order a partial copy ( e.g. the chapter or the exact pages you need ) . There are also commercial document delivery services ( see for an example : <URL> ) . Which offer tracking down documents and again either loan of the book or partial copies . Even the linked commercial service charges only 9 $ per book inside Germany for non-commercial customers and 25 $ worldwide for commercial customers but excluding UK and USA ( I do n't know why ) . If you 're talking about a thesis : university libraries usually have a copy at least of all PhD theses done at that university , for Bachelor or Master theses you 'd often have to ask the institute ( or supervisor ) where the work was done . In Germany , the <URL> has a copy of each book published in Germany or in German ( or about Germany ) from 1913 on . There are also field-specific large libraries , as for example the <URL> for technical literature . So , are you sure " ca n't really afford " is a valid argument ? ( Whether you nevertheless download pirate copies , or ask your neighbour to let you have a look into her book , or buy it despite the fact that the neigbour at the other desk owns it as well , stays entirely your own choice . ) If I have to get a book by inter-library loan , I try to make a copy of the vital chapter . This is legal here in Germany ( single copies for personal use , reseach or teaching of not too large part of a book ) .
In your example , you are citing the chapter author 's work , not the work of the compiler/editor of the book as a whole . According to the APA Publication Manual , use the following reference format for this situation . Author , A.A. ( 1967 ) Title of chapter or entry . In A. Editor &amp; B. Editor ( Eds . ) , Title of book ( pp . xxx-xxx ) . Location : Publisher Of course , your intext citation would reference the chapter author too , not the book author/editor . The same general format holds for other reference styles as well .
When you 're invited for an interview , the university should offer some guidance on how to book travel and what they will reimburse . If for some reason they do n't , it 's reasonable to ask how you should handle it . By default you should book a reasonably priced economy-class ticket ( i.e. , given several options do n't take one that stands out as much more expensive ) . It 's wise to save a few screenshots of price comparisons in case anyone suggests you should have gotten a much better deal . If all the available flights seem remarkably expensive , for example if you are invited to interview with relatively little notice , then you can always check to make sure they are OK with the expense ( but they will presumably say yes if the expense could not reasonably be avoided ) .
I have a confession to make : some of my citations use fake page numbers . Why do I do this ? Because sometimes there just are n't any page numbers or I can not find the page numbers for a document with any reasonable amount of searching . This happens especially often to me with computer science papers , where some venues just do n't bother . Online journals also often have unusual approaches to page numbering , sometimes giving a DOI-like token rather than a number . In other cases , such as some book chapters , there are page numbers , but the versions accessible online are n't marked with them . My preference in these cases is simply to omit the page numbers : citations are about information accessibility , and if the page numbers are n't a meaningful part of accessing that information , then I see no point in trying to fit the citation onto that particular <URL> . Occasionally , though , a journal with a particularly zealous and inflexible copyeditor will force me to add page numbers to things that do n't have page numbers , and that is when I use fake page numbers , simply numbering an N-page document as pages 1-N . Bottom line : do n't sweat the page numbers , much less the volume number .
A quick google " apa cite video " would give you lots of advice , such as <URL> which notes : Last Name , F.M. [ Username ] . ( Year , Month Date ) . Title of video . [ Video File ] . Retrieved from URL .
You cite the original title , for the very reason you gave : to enable readers to find the original title . If your work is subject to guidelines , you should also check those . Usually , there is no point in giving a translation of the title as it does not contain any relevant information for the reader . Many citation styles do not mention the title of papers at all . I see two exceptions though : If a translation of the cited work into English exists ( but you worked with the French original ) , you can mention it in addition to the French title , e.g. with : [ actual citation ] ( translated into English under the title [ translated title ] ) If the title allows the reader to estimate what the source contains and whether they want to read it at all . In this case , you should arguably change your text such that it states in what way the citation is relevant for your work .
When designing an assessment , it is helpful to look at something like <URL> . Since you mention B-school , I assume you are assessing a management or finance module . I always thought finance modules in particular should be open-book because of the extensive use of formulas and , as pointed out by F ' x and others , simply testing if the student can remember some information is not really the most interesting ( for teachers or students ) . Sticking with Bloom 's Taxonomy , remembering is the lowest form of assessment . If the students do not have to worry about getting the formulas right , then you can start something more complex . For example , have them make recommendations or create a plan for whatever the subject is . For example , if you are assessing leadership , give them a scenario with enough background knowledge and ask them to recommend ( with justification of course ) a particular leadership style for the situation . Remembering the standard leadership styles is not what is most important . What is important is that they can see a situation , assess the more important elements of that situation with respect to leadership , evaluate the pros and cons of each option , and decide which would be the best of all the choices to be used , which may include creating their own leadership style . Basically , for open book tests , move further up towards evaluation and creating and away from rote memorization .
When you cite any source , you should give enough that the reader can , at least in principle , read that source for themselves . This information is especially important when you cite something as a source for further information , as it is in your example paper . This paper presents the framework of such a complete phenomenological model _ outlined by Sayeedvafa ( 2002 ) that provides a description of a wide range of the observed behavior , which are both tractable from analytical as well as computational viewpoint . For example , citations of technical reports ( like your first example ) should uniquely identify both the institution and the report , so that the reader knows who and how to ask for a copy . In particular , if the report is available on the web at a stable location , the citation should include a stable URL . If a source is likely to be inaccessible to most readers ( like your second example ) , you should also cite an accessible secondary source that describes the relevant content in detail . ( If you really want to be helpful , the primary source citation should include a pointer like " Cited in [ xxx ] . " ) Otherwise , you 're just asking for the reader 's blind trust that the source has the missing details you claim , or proves the result that you claim , or is as important as you claim , or even exists at all .
The correct answer is not to wait until two days before the deadline to check in on your co-author 's progress . Presumably this is no longer an option . If the section is not necessary , take it out . If it is necessary , you and your non-tardy co-authors can try to get together and do it together before the final deadline . You should certainly tell the tardy co-author what you plan to do ( I mean the collective " you , " as in you and your other co-authors ) . If the tardy co-author 's contribution does n't make it in before the final deadline , then his name wo n't go on it either . Note that if this was a paper being submitted for publication , e.g. a conference submission , and not for school , you would likely just miss this deadline entirely and have to wait to submit to another conference .
Like a lot of things in academia , I think this will heavily depend on what discipline you 're in . In computer science for example , while there 's nothing wrong with a book chapter , a paper at a conference or in a journal is typically more valuable . The reason normally given is that papers are peer reviewed ( as compared to edited ) , so they are somehow more ' valid ' . Having said that , there 's always myriad exceptions . Writing a whole book that everyone uses is much better than a few papers . Later in the career , book chapters perhaps gain value as they 're a mark of respect and prestige ( once you 've already proven your research ability ) . As a counter-point though , from my limited experience , it seems that book chapters are much more common in bioinformatics and operations research , and thus are viewed more highly . Talk to fellow academics in your area , their opinion will be the best guide .
In writing a summary of a thesis , I would actually go about this the opposite way . Do n't start with 175 pages and try to cut it down to 20 . Instead , start from 0 and try to write a document that will be useful to a reader who wants to know whether to pick up the entire thesis . I would probably do something like this : Background description that explains why your problem is interesting . 2-3 pages maximum . General description of what your algorithm achieves , why it is useful , and how it improves on the previous state of the art . Do n't try to explain the details of how the algorithm works . Consider including a brief illustrative example if space permits at all ; that will be very helpful to the reader who wants to know what the heck you are doing . If space remains , state main theorem ( s ) , preceded by any definitions needed for them to make sense . If necessary , gloss over the less interesting parts of those theorems . E.g. a complicated set of conditions can be encapsulated in " under mild assumptions " ( assuming they are mild ) , a complicated formula could be replaced by " there exists a constant " . If space still remains , consider including a very high-level overview of your methods . Specifically mention any parts that you think are especially interesting or novel . This is n't my field , but I gather that in computer science it is pretty common to publish results first as relatively short conference papers , and then to give more complete details in follow-up papers in journals . You might try reading such conference papers ( and compare them with their extended versions ) to see what details people focus on . Writing this summary will also be good practice for eventually producing page-limited papers based on your work .
The ASCII standard is set out in <URL> , so you should cite it directly .
You ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper until it is made public ( by the authors as a preprint , or by the publisher ) . In particular , before that point you ca n't refer to the paper , you ca n't use the ideas without referring to it , you ca n't publish or otherwise disseminate results based on it , and you ca n't discuss it with other people , including your collaborators . It can be really frustrating to know something important and be unable to tell anyone else for the time being , but there 's no way around it ethically . The reason is that submitting a paper for publication is not considered to release it for other use or dissemination until it is actually published . The people involved in processing and evaluating it ( most notably the editors and reviewers ) have an ethical obligation to keep all information about the submission strictly confidential and not to use it to gain any personal advantage . Once it is published of course it can be treated the same as any other paper , and in the meantime the authors can choose to make information publicly available via preprints or talks ( in which case others can follow up on this information as appropriate ) , but nobody else is authorized to release any information before publication beyond what the authors have chosen to share , or to use it for any purpose other than reviewing the paper . Otherwise it has the same ethical status as using material you stole off the authors ' desks . There 's no reason why the research community has to work this way in principle , but it 's the system that has evolved over time . ( Note that as recently as the 1930 's , famous physicists were <URL> as to how peer review should work . ) It 's possible that in the future we will move to systems such as submitting for publication only after releasing a preprint . That seems to be the trend in some fields , but we have n't yet made a full transition if we ever will , and the community 's ethical principles still offer protection to authors who choose not to distribute their paper before publication . Nobody signs a non-disclosure agreement when reviewing a paper , but the ethical principles are well established . Deliberately violating them would be a serious form of misconduct , which could easily be career-ending if it was more than a minor or technical violation . Pete L. Clark asks in the comments whether referees are allowed to prepare follow-up papers , as long as they do n't distribute them before the original paper becomes public . I.e. , does the " you ca n't ethically do anything based on ideas from this paper " really mean you ca n't do anything , or just that you ca n't disseminate anything yet ? ( Let 's assume it 's a single-authored paper that is not discussed with anyone else in advance . ) My interpretation is that nobody can stop you from thinking a little , and you may not even be able to stop yourself , but actively working on and writing a paper of your own would be abusing your position as referee . There probably is n't a consensus as to exactly where the line is for what 's strictly forbidden , but either side of the line could still look terrible . If you want to publish work you began thinking about as a referee , I 'd strongly recommend against doing it so quickly that 's it clear you had to have known about the original paper in advance .
There is more here than style : the first and third options mean something quite different from the fourth and fifth . In the former cases , what you are asserting is that someone else argued for X . In the latter cases , you are asserting X and using the citation as evidence/support/proof . ( That I ca n't quite tell where the second one fits into this dichotomy is a strike against it . ) In an academic paper , that is a not so subtle difference . I find the style question less critical . It is a matter of general good writing rather than anything specifically academic or it is specific to the journal at hand ( so we need not discuss it here ) . Of course you can use an author 's name as a subject of a sentence : you can write what you want , you know ! As a matter of style , to my ear the first option sounds good , the second option sounds weird , and the third option sounds weaker and wordier than the first , but maybe the surrounding text gives you a good reason to write it that way . The difference between options 4 and 5 is just a difference in citation style . First that is very field dependent ; in my field ( mathematics ) , we would do 5 rather than 4 ; in much of the humanities it would be the other way around . Second , unless your choice is so so strange that it prevents your readers from finding the references in your bibliography , the whole issue can probably wait until your paper gets accepted , in which case they 'll either do it for you , tell you exactly what to do , or tell you that you did it wrong ( and ask you to fix it ) .
Arguably the most complete resource would be the UNESCO 's <URL> , a database of translation from 1979 onward . There you should be able to search more easily , selecting desired language and inputting a keyword from the title or an author . There is also a list of references hosted by <URL> , which offers a few hard-copy guides for consultation , however these are more restricted by field ( mostly having to do with works of literature ) .
How to handle this depends on your field . If your field has a notion of first author , then " [ name of first author ] et al. " is appropriate . In fields like math that use alphabetical ordering , I 'd strongly recommend naming all the authors , since " et al. " could be read as diminishing the credit later authors get . I would not be happy if my name disappeared into an " et al. " The sentence " [ last name of author 1 ] , [ last name of author 2 ] , [ last name of author 3 ] and [ last name of author 4 ] provide an interesting insight in their case study ... " sounds fine to me . ( I.e. , the same sentence as in the question , except that I assume " Andria A , Paul S , Derek B and Howard C " are just stand-ins for the actual names , and not actually a proposal for how to format the names . )
end question
start question
Should the first letter of the axis label be uppercase ?
From a general survey of style books , yes , at least the first alphabet should be capitalized : American Medical Association Manual of Style : Title format ( e.g. Average Consumption Index , % ) Chicago Manual of Style : Sentence format ( e.g. Average consumption index , % ) Scientific Style and Format ( Cambridge ) : Sentence format An easy way to see this : axis labels are akin to the row and column titles in a table . If those titles are generally capitalized ( which is the norm ) , then the axis title should also follow . So , I 'd recommend at least follow the sentence style capitalization rule . This is not to say lower case titles are absolutely wrong , but I am sure they will raise more eyebrows in a bad way .
The typical way to list such a paper is ' author , author , and author . " Title " , Journal of XYZ , to appear ' That should be enough with regards to your C.V. Anyone in academia will be familiar with this notion , and is unlikely to be think that you might be lying . After all , the truth will become obvious one way or another shortly . If they want to see copies of your papers , it 's OK to attach a preprint as well , as long as you clearly label it : " Preprint , do not distribute . " Many journals will in preproduction have sent you a proof copy with exactly this as a watermark . Sharing in this way clearly falls under fair use protection , even if you have transferred copyright , just as if you were showing it to them in person .
Posters are hard to get right . They require design skills and knowing what the core message of your paper is . Presenting them requires people skills . Aside from this , different areas seem to have different criteria and norms when it comes to this so if you want to fit in you should try to follow those . But in general , most scientific posters I 've seen are really terrible in terms of tools for communication : they have far too much text and get into far too much technical detail . For example , <URL> posted in the comments on the question , there 's some nice visuals but all of the posters have , in my opinion , far too much text . One excuse for a lot of text on a poster I often hear is that people will can read them on their own between sessions or whatever . In my own area and experience , I do n't buy this argument : that 's what the paper is for and I rarely see anyone reading these literal walls of text in their spare time . The advice you 've gotten from the internet seems to follow that thinking : the thinking of printing a full paper on a poster in bullet form . An A0/A1 wall of text is not the best way to sell your work , nor is a boring traditional narrative of introduction , methodology , results , related work , conclusion or whatever . I say this from the perspective of someone who 's gone to too many poster sessions and gotten trapped at a poster where someone for some reason decided I would be interested in spending 20 minutes silently listening to them recite the slightly abridged version of the paper that they had for some reason decided to printed on their poster . One guy even seemed to expect me to leave after he was done . After he had finished reading the conclusions at me he had a look on his face that said " who 's next ? " . Okay so that 's one extreme . For me , the secret to a good poster presentation is two-fold : the poster and the person in front of it . In terms of a poster session , people will probably have some food with them , people might even have some drinks , you should not assume to take more than 5 minutes of their time , they 're probably not going to get all the technical details and they 're definitely not going to read a wall of text . At least one would hope that they would n't read it because that would imply that you 'd be talking to yourself since they can not read text and listen to you at the same time ( unless you 're reading aloud the text that is ) . When I was working with students on posters , I would always advise them to dispose of the idea that they can or should communicate the full technical depth of a work on a poster to a passer-by in five minutes . Their goal should be to motivate and communicate enough of the core ideas of the work to convince people passing by their poster that the paper would be worth taking the time to read and to teach them something cool . In terms of that goal , I would bring the student to a white-board and tell them to pretend I was a conference-goer who knew nothing of the work but we met at a coffee break and I asked them to tell me about the work . They can use the board or ... if really needed ... they can point to something in the paper . While presenting , they should appear enthusiastic ( without overselling ) and emphasise why the work is important ... why I should care , and what the main results were . They should also listen to what I say ... it should be a conversation . They should make sure that the person they 're talking to is following them ... that they do n't just launch into a 10 minute soliloquy at the first person that looks in their direction but that there 's an element of interaction . After that exercise whatever they were trying to represent on the board or whatever they needed to point at in the paper : that and pretty much only that is what goes on the poster ... diagrams , examples , main results ... things they can point to help them explain verbally what the work is about . Then we 'd sketch out a poster and try make it visually appealing ... try to tell a visual story with it ... try to make it attractive for people to come over and ask what it 's about . Not that the end result is always perfect , but the approach does lead to a better result in terms of a communication tool than the wall-of-text approach that seems so bizarre to me in the world of scientific posters .
In my experience , it is usually the other way around . The first round of reviews typically takes longer , because the reviewers are new to the paper and first reading it and forming their opinions . In the second round , they are more likely to be simply looking at differences and seeing whether they agree with your adjustments and replies to their comments . There is , however , a lot of noise in the process , because in most cases the main amount of time is not spent in reviewing per se , but rather in waiting for the reviewers to make time in their schedules to review . It differs from journal to journal of course , but sounds to me like in your first round of review you got unusually lucky with the reviewers ' schedules and things went very fast , and the second round of review is taking a more " normal " length of time .
Is this a cultural difference between continental European and British/American system I can not surely speak for all continental Europe , not even for a small portion of it and not for all fields , but speaking with a few European colleagues of mine , it appears that the expectations that we have on recommendation letters are completely different from the typical US expectations . In particular : We mostly consider recommendation letters as a mean to discriminate between those that are not able to provide any recommendation letter and those that can provide at least a couple . That is , we expect most of the people not to be able to get one ( in a distant past , I would n't have considered one who just attended one or two classes with me eligible for a recommendation letter ) . We do n't expect recommendation letters to be more than one page long , and half a page is ok ( you just have to tell me that you had worked with this person and that they are not that bad ) . We do n't expect the recommendation letters to be sent directly from the reference to the application board . We consider the writing of recommendation letters as a favour to the applicant , and not as a duty of our profession . Actually , all the recommendation letters I wrote but one were handed directly to the student ( or former student ) . For the exception , I 've received a direct request from a university to submit the recommendation through their online system : the uploading procedure , with questions to answer too , was such a hassle that I 've decided that in the future I will probably decline any request for recommendation letters to be uploaded anywhere . To answer your main question : Should I ask the professors to write and hand me recommendation letters directly , or should I try to communicate with the university and let the professors email them the letter/give me a physical letter sealed within an envelop , which I will send to the university by mail later on ? I understand your reasons , but I 'd consider this an odd thing to do . I 'd simply ask the student to provide the recommendation letters . In case the professors were reluctant to hand the letters directly to the student , I 'd write an email explaining the different traditions .
If a person receives an invitation , the responsibility to deliver will be with that person . That does not necessarily mean that person will be first author although I suspect it will most frequently be the case . There are many posts on academia.sx that deal with first authorships so I do not think I need to replicate many good answers here . Suffice it to say that you need to discuss the authorship with your advisor . Unfortunately , this should have been done early on because lack of an agreement on authorship ordering early on is what usually leads to conflicts in the end . I am not saying this applies in your case but the fact that you ask seems to go in that direction . For authorship and contributorship discussions I can point you to two posts in <URL> and <URL> . There are many other sources but they provide the core ideas on author/contributorship . It is easy to agree with these ideas , more difficult to live by them , particularly in a student-advisor relationship .
There are quite a few issues to be careful about when considering a recommendation letter from an employer . Some examples : Make sure they understand the culture of academic recommendation letters . In industry , lots of the time recommendations are more-or-less a token statement that someone worked for you and did n't cause any issues . Academic recommendation letters are very different , so make sure they have an idea of what kind of letter to write . What exactly is the background of your letter writer ? This is a bigger issue with PhD ( or research-based masters ) recommendations , but if your recommender does n't have the background or credentials to understand what it takes to become a successful researcher or academic , then it 's unlikely that they will be able to speak intelligently about whether you have those traits . How common are industry to graduate school moves in your field ? In a field like mathematics or physics , my guess is that most candidates do not have significant work experience and any work experience is usually far removed from the subject material . In a field like that , the people evaluating your profile are more likely to discount an industry recommendation , especially if it comes from a non-PhD , non-researcher . On the other hand , fields like business or engineering have many more applicants from industry and are probably used to seeing those recommendation letters , so it is unlikely to put you at a significant disadvantage . How well are your other bases covered and what are your alternatives ? If you have recommendation letters that already focus on your undergraduate classes and research , then it may be more valuable to have a letter describing traits you exhibited in the workplace than another " he got an A in my class " letter . In general , an employer 's letter is never going to be as good as a great letter from an active researcher that you worked closely with . But most applicants do n't have three of those on hand . Can a letter from an employer be useful ? Definitely . Given the alternatives , is it the optimal decision for you ? It 's possible , but that depends on a lot of factors that you should probably spend some time thinking about .
You want your reader to be able to figure out what 's in the paper without reading through all the technical details , and then going through the trouble of synthesizing what you 've written to figure out the what the paper means . If you want your paper to have any impact at all , you need to put an executive summary somewhere in it . Whether you put all the details of the summary at the end of the introduction , or put a less detailed summary in the introduction , and expand on the details at the beginning of each section may depend on the author and/or the field . It may be that in your field , people expect summaries at the end/beginning of each section , and will look for them there . But if you 're careful about what you say and how you say it , you do n't need to repeat details from the introduction at the beginnings of the section , so putting the summaries at the beginning/end of the sections should n't use much extra space .
I like to think of appendices ( or supporting information , which is the same thing for a journal paper ) in terms of the narrative structure of a text . The main text should contain everything that makes up the " story " of the work . In it , a reader who basically trusts that your methods are sound should find everything that they need to understand the work . There are often , however , places where it is important to show your work , but that are not particularly interesting . If they are lengthy enough that they start feeling like a major detour in the flow of the narrative , then they are a good candidate for moving to an appendix . Some examples from my own recent papers : Theorem and proof sketch in main text , boring exhaustive proof with lots of slightly different cases in appendix . Graph summarizing results plus an example of result detail in main text , all the rest of the results in appendix . Data from method presented in main text , data showing that plausible alternatives did n't work in appendix . Intuitive description of method and key mathematical concepts in main text , exhaustive mathematical details in appendix . Exactly where to draw the line is somewhat subjective , but fortunately does n't matter all that much unless you are dealing with format or length restrictions .
There 's nothing wrong with asking , as long as you are polite and willing to take " no " for an answer .
I agree with your inclination : explaining your research programme , arguably the most important part of a tenure-track job talk , at the end seems counter-productive , to say the least . Moreover , I would definitely not spend only 5 minutes of your talk on your programme . 10 minutes seems like the absolute minimum in a one-hour job talk . More generally , job talks tend to consist of five parts : The " About Me " part that usually kicks off the talk . Keep this short , as it is essentially pretty boring for the audience . The " Intro " of the research field . Explain your audience what you are actually doing . Here , the point is not so much to sell your own work within the field , but to sell the field itself to the faculty . Your " Research Agenda " within the field . As I mentioned above , arguably the most important part of the talk . The biggest mistake here is to step into what I call the " parameter optimization " trap - making it seem like your research agenda consists primarily of small incremental improvements of your PhD thesis . The " Zoom In " . Take out one part of your work , and explain in detail what you have been doing . The " Outlook " . Wrap the talk up with an outlook . Where is your field going , where are you going , how would your joining change the research of the faculty ? One problem is knowing how far in-depth each of these segments should be . My PhD advisor used to say that bullets ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) need to be easy enough to understand that every CS faculty can follow , but deep enough that it still perceived as important and valuable research . For bullet ( 4 ) , it is ok ( maybe expected ) that the details are not all that accessible anymore for faculty working in very different fields . However , at Bullet ( 5 ) , you need to pick up your entire audience again .
Both ways are equally acceptable and used in separate instances . Basically if the author ( s ) names occur in the sentence type ( 2 ) should be used and if the name ( s ) are not then type ( 1 ) should be used . The question is then when the two forms result . Type ( 1 ) is a more passive form used when you , for example , are describing general background where the specific reference might not be key . The form is quite common ( but not exclusive ) to the introduction section . The sense is that the information is more distant from your own study . Version ( 2 ) is used when the cited studies are building the story and is closer to your work and thus more important for understanding the details of your study . A good example may be in the discussion where your results are compared with other specific studies . This is just a generalization since both are useful in all parts of a research article .
From a practical point of view , whenever you send your paper for a peer review , they check if you have all citations both in your text and in sources . It means that " yes " they must be cited . Saying so , there is normally clear advise from a journal how to cite and produce bibliography . You should do what it says . At last you can always solve the problem by adding one sentence in your text : " Additional information about ... can be found in [ your references ] . " With this sentence everyone should be happy .
A book or paper on writing is a good introduction but can usually not solve everything . Reading a book does not mean you can reproduce what it teaches , particularly with writing since it is something that needs lots of practise . One problem is that writing is a question of both knowing how to structure the science but also a question of building and formulating the text , the latter being a language issue . So it is usually relatively easy to teach students how the technical side works and provide explanations for why . Teaching students how to be concise and precise is another question and without lots of practise it is quite difficult to get anywhere . During a thesis much of the language issues are ironed out by constant revisions sugested by the advisor . I also point out to all my students that writing is a life-long learning process and thatit is never to late to develop and change your writing . However , I have some sources I fall back to : Katz , M.J. From research to manuscript . A guide to scientific writing . Springer Day , R.A. and Gastel , B. , How to write and publish a scientific paper . Cambridge The <URL> OWL is also very useful . For language ( English ) I have ( aside of Strunk &amp; White ) found Glasman-Deal , H. Science research writing for non-native speakers of English of use . There are of course lots of books around but all are definitely not good . A final gem is a short paper on abstracts Landes , K. , <URL> . Bulletin Of The American Association Of Petroleum Geologists . 50 ( 9 ) , 1992-1999 . Which provides an excellent description of the abstract .
I have unfortunately seen these kinds of shenanigans before , so : know you are not alone , whatever cold comfort that may be . This situation has no " pro , " and has the following significant " con : " you are not getting the credit you deserve for your work . In fields where author lists are not ordered alphabetically , order is used to signify the author 's contributions to the paper , and first-author papers are much more important for things like hiring and promotions . I suggest the following steps . 1 . Talk to your advisor Maybe this is just a misunderstanding , or there are other variables in play you 're not aware of ( unlikely , but possible - see <URL> ) . Have a conversation with your advisor to see if you can clear this up . Here 's your opener : I thought that in IT , usually the student who did most of the work is the first author and the advisor is the last - this is the case in all the papers I have read . Why do you propose a different order ? 2 . Run , do n't walk This behavior is typically an indication that either your advisor is completely unaware of conventions in your field ( charitable interpretation ) , or your advisor is aware of the authorship conventions and is deliberately violating them to your disadvantage , which is extremely unethical behavior . In either case , this means that your advisor is simply unsuitable to be an advisor , to anyone , and you should find another one as soon as humanly possible . 3 . If all else fails If you are stuck with this advisor for some reason1 , be prepared for a very bumpy ride . This is not likely to be the last stunt he/she pulls . However , you can at least try to argue your case : there is some advice on the subject <URL> , although that question does not specifically address the case where the advisor is demanding first authorship for him/herself . 1This site is full of students who insist on staying with a completely unsuitable advisor , for one reason or another . I suspect <URL> .
I am assuming the two choices are at the same institution . If they are not , choose the higher-ranked institution ( if there is a clear winner ) , because moving forward , name DOES matter ) . That said : You have two currently incompatible , yet not mutually-exclusive motivations : a ) work with someone who is well known in the field b ) work with someone who has closely aligned research interests and , you are concerned about the letter of recommendation , to come later . the correct choice is B . You should work with the faculty member whose research interests closely match yours . Any other decision is to enter into a failing marriage . It is important that you can be excited about what you are doing , and your excitement will in turn excite your mentor , which will pay dividends . THAT SAID , names do matter . If the faculty that matches your interests is junior , you will have to plan ahead to ensure that in addition to his/her glowing recommendation , you also get a letter from the more senior colleague . This is n't impossible , or even difficult . If you are starting grad school , just be open and honest about it . Engage him/her . Go to their lab meetings . Later , when you do your prelim or comp exams , you can invite that person to be on your committee . You 'll get both of best worlds : an advisor that shares your passion and a letter from a big wig . You have to love what you 're doing .
I would say the two most important points are to make slides you are comfortable with and not to limit your oral presentation to reading your slides . Furthermore , if you are presenting a research paper , i.e. , where more written material is available to the audience , then the objective is usually to make people want to read your paper , instead of explaining the entire paper in 20 minutes . Some people prefer to have full slides , arguing that when members of the audience are not understanding English very well , it can help them to have both the oral presentation and the slides , especially when the speaker does not speak a perfect English . It is also helpful for members of the audience who got distracted at some point , and who can quickly read where the speaker is . Other people prefer minimal slides , arguing that having both the full text and the oral presentation might confuse the audience . In particular , whenever a slide is displayed , the audience tends to read it immediately , and during the reading , to be less receptive of any spoken words . In other words , the only " bad " presentation would be to have full slides , and to limit your presentation to reading them , because you become basically useless . However , you can have long slides , as long as you consider them as an aid for the audience who have n't followed what you said ( for whatever reason ) , and not as your script to read . You can also minimal slides , containing only the key points . In the end , you need to be comfortable with your slides , and to give a presentation like one you would like to attend .
Question 1 : When applying for jobs across several countries should application materials always be designed to meet the page layout norms for the particular job location ? I had never even considered doing this and I would not bother trying to change the paper format . If you do not change it , software will shrink the text to fit when it is printed . It might not look ideal but it is the content that matters . I ca n't imagine that anybody is going to hold the fact that you come from an A4 using country against you . If you do change it , probably nobody will notice . Question 2 : Will materials even be printed ? I was just on a search committee . Every single member of the committee brought a laptop or tablet to the meeting . No printouts . When the shortlisted candidates were forwarded to the full department , I noticed that some people on the full faculty had printed out application materials . So , maybe ?
You may often be surprised how often a " universally " understood acronym turns out to be either ambiguous or not quite as universal as you believe . For example , look at all of the <URL> ( some of which are even reasonable ) . I also find that if I would n't say the acronym ( e.g. , " WWW " ) , then it makes for smoother reading to use the words instead . As such , I personally find it best to start by writing out a name in full before giving the acronym . In fact , when there is a short prose alternative like " information technology " or " web , " I prefer avoid the acronym altogether . The exception to this rule is those acronyms that have made the transition to become words ( e.g. , RAM , laser , radar ) or that have no real expansion , such as <URL> , which is more of a recursion joke than an acronym .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
end question
start question
Poster author added me as coauthor after abstract was submitted . Can I include it on CV ?
A poster of which you 're not the first author is such a minor thing I would n't worry about it ( even if it is listed on the conference website ) . I do n't have a huge publication list but still only include posters I presented ( aand only at major conferences ) . They do n't have anything like the CV impact of a peer-reviewed paper . Either : You were accidentally omitted and should be included . In this case the author should contact the conference organisers ( but it 's probably too late ) . Or your contribution was rather minor -- perhaps it only became apparent that your work made it onto the poster at all at the last minute . In this case while you 're named as an author it 's closer to an acknowledgement in practice . Listing it as a publication , if the title can be searched for but you 're not named , does n't seem like a good idea . Realistically no one is ever going to look . But if you just happen to come up against someone who 's interested in something very specific about the poster that you do n't normally do , it is n't going to help you .
In the US , various funding agencies ( NSF , NIH , DOE , ... ) have fellowships you can apply to for predoctoral students . They tend to be very competitive compared to internal sources ( Teaching Assistantships , Research Assistantships , Graduate Assistantships ) , but they may offer a higher stipend . Depending on your field , professional societies also offer fellowships : American heart association , Whitaker foundation , Gates foundation . Industry also offers some in association with various schools : Siemens , Raytheon , Johnson &amp; Johnson .
This depends on the customs of the field and the venue . I will answer based upon my experience from an HCI-related subfield of CS : Conferences usually have some requirement of novelty for published works . Therefore , if a paper associated with the poster already appeared in some proceedings of the first conference , you might not fulfil this requirement . First , however , some different cases might apply : If the poster was not " formally published " ( i.e. did not appear as a ( short ) paper in any kind of proceedings ) , you should be good to go . If the poster was supposed to be " formally published " , but the conference organizers never got around to setting up the proceedings of the poster session , you 're in a bit of an inconvenient situation . Your work is not published in a way that it can be cited ( well , it can , but it does n't look as verifiable as other papers and is not archived by any publisher ) , but it has been presented . You may want to contact the conference organizers in this case whether publishing your work again is ok , or else you may want to wrap your work in something larger ( i.e. present something new , but reiterate the points from the poster as a part of the exposition ) . Even if your poster was published in some kind of proceedings , there may be some options : Posters are often allowed to present work in progress . If your poster ( and the connected paper ) was presented in a way to present work in progress , your new conference paper might indeed present the final state of whatever you devised . This can essentially match the content of your poster , but provide more details ( see also below ) . Even if the poster presented final results , the term " results " seems to be seen in a very wide sense at least in my fields , possibly in others . A full conference paper provides much more space than a poster paper , and on the poster , you probably presented different ( more visual ) things than you would in text . As such , you can shift the focus of your conference paper compared to the poster ; where the poster focused on the results , the conference paper might discuss the methods used to obtain the results in depth , including design decisions , citations of similar experiments , a verification of the reliability of your experiments , etc. . This kind of description can be useful for the community and subsequent works , and as such should provide enough new content , despite being based upon the same material as the poster .
You had a reason to decline . Has the reason evaporated ? Why are you changing your mind ? You should need to have a good response for that , both for yourself as well as to the place you apply to . As a superviser , I had students changing mind back and fro , which I understand - it 's a big decision , and not all information may be available . However , keep in mind that your originally offered position , as stated elsewhere , may have been already given to someone else .
I would use some of the following : submitted under review submitted to ... and do not stress that there is already a revision going on . Even revised papers may get rejected , so being in revision is no guarantee to get the paper published . I also would not state the journal to which the paper is submitted to because I do not see how this says anything about the quality of the paper . If you think , that the paper is good and interesting for whoever reads the CV , make it available as a preprint and provide a link . I myself have a section " Preprints " in my CV where I list submitted but not published papers with links to the arXiv and add the line " submitted , month , year " .
One important thing to keep in mind is that the abstract is typically copied to various article databases , which have varying support for markup . As such , much of the formatting will not necessarily be carried over . That nicely formatted bulleted list which appears in the pages of the journal can turn into a confusing mess in online article databases . ( e.g. . It might lose the bullets and be smashed into a single paragraph . ) For this reason , it 's generally recommended to avoid any special formatting in article abstracts - even things like italics should be kept de minimis . If at all possible , skip the bulleted list , and keep the list in plain text format . If you do want to keep the bulleted list , be sure to format the list entries such that things stay readable even if the bullets are removed and everything is collapsed into a single paragraph .
There 's two aspects to that : Licensing and academic ethics . Regarding licensing , you write that you have a license that covers personal and commercial use . Probably commercial use will include academic ( i.e. , professional ) use , but make sure that your license permits you to reuse these elements in a publication . For a poster I do n't think it will be a problem . For a research paper , you typically need to transfer copyright to the publisher , which you ca n't for these elements . So that will need special consideration . Regarding academic ethics , the way to answer this question is to think about the scientific contribution that is being made with these elements . Does the creator of these elements contribute in any way to the scientific content of your publication ? If yes , you should give an attribution , if not , an attribution is not required . It 's not clear to me how much science did go into constructing these elements , but think of the following extreme case : When writing a paper , you obviously use graphic elements , which are the font of the letters , to convey your message . But typically , you do n't attribute the creator of the font , because there 's no contribution to the scientific content . It 's really just the medium you are using to communicate your results , and you do n't need to attribute that .
I do n't know how mathjob distributes candidates ' applications to schools , but I doubt anyone cares . I put all applications I get for my job postings into a folder in no particular order and never look at the order of application . Someone has to be first . Go ahead ! Apply away !
Upon joining the club of those who 've " made it , " you find that there are further gradations . A tenured professor can safely breathe a sigh of relief for at least a year or two , but eventually she will notice ( i ) that her salary is lower than most of her tenured colleagues and ( ii ) that she is still being asked to document and defend her productivity across several axes : research , teaching and service . ( Also , in many cases , ( iii ) She is increasingly pressured to apply for and get major grants . In many cases , her future salary and promotions depend on this to a large degree . ) The main tool to exhibit your recent accomplishments in research , teaching and service is ... your CV , usually . In fact , " whether they want a good raise or not , " most faculty are required to submit annual " activity reports " in which a CV is often a required component . ( When it is n't , it usually means that we manually copy information from our CV into some form or type it into some internal webpage . So having an updated CV is more or less necessary for many faculty members . ) Certainly having a carefully groomed CV is necessary when you go up for " promotion to full " , apply for an endowed chair or distinguished research position , and so forth . The bottom line : academia has bureaucratic , competitive and hierarchical aspects all the way through . Most people who have made it tenure in recent years have learned how to keep reasonably up-to-date CVs without too much trouble or heroic effort -- the CVs do not need to be rewritten from scratch to showcase their skills for some new job , usually , so it is mostly a matter of regular updating -- so honestly , this is not the worst part of the bureaucratic minutiae .
If you can make the data set available to the community in some way , you are doing it a good service , because it will allow other people to use your dataset for comparison and for their own new works . If they find it useful , it will also help you , as the people who use it will cite your paper as the source . I would thus say that yes , if you have a good way to either post it online or attach it to your paper as supplementary information , this this is a good thing to do .
No , you can not . Until the paper is publicly available you can not show it to anyone nor even acknowledge its existence . The only slight exception I would make is that if a colleague was going to pursue similar/identical research , I would tell them they might want to contact the author . I would assume that this would result in my identity as a reviewer being revealed . Your options are : Submit your manuscript as is , but add the citation as soon as it become public . Reveal your identity as a reviewer and ask the author for a preprint . Option 1 is reasonable since you believe the existence of the paper is not critical to your paper . Option 2 is okay , but remember the reviewers of you manuscript will not have easy access to the cited material .
I varies with fields and journals . Some journals do allows posting preprints on one 's webpage , or on a preprint server . Some not , but they do n't care . ( And some academicians do put their papers on their websites , even if it is against rules . ) Some do n't allow and do care , so putting the preprint on your webpage may disqualify you from publishing this work . ( If it fits your discipline , why not using <URL> ? )
I am sure this may vary but this is standard procedure for our theses since they are based on papers . A student will typically have about four papers/manuscripts in their thesis ranging from published through all stages of revision in a journal to not yet submitted manuscripts . You will need to check with your local guidelines what is expected from a thesis to figure out the details but it would seem difficult to demand all published papers unless the period to complete a PhD is open ended .
Convenient ? No . Appropriate ? Yes . Unless you are at a point in your career where you can release an impressive " selected publications " CV , your CV is expected to contain everything that you have ever published . That includes publications that nobody has cited and even ones that you are embarrassed by in retrospect . I 've certainly got some of those in my CV ( we were all grad students once ) , and I simply trust that they will be drowned out by all of the good work that has been done since .
It 's a tiered system : Peer-reviewed published articles . Published means published in any form , so it includes papers in all states published online on the journal 's website , including " in print " , " ASAP papers " , " just accepted papers " , etc. . That 's top notch : it demonstrates your ability to perform research , write it up and publish it . Those are key requirements for the job . 1b . Peer-reviewed accepted papers . All search committees I know will assume good faith , and accepted papers not yet published ( thus without proof ) are considered as good as published papers . If you want to ( and the application format allows for it ) , you can actually join a copy of the manuscript ( not as proof , but for committee members who may want to read your paper to judge its quality ) . Submitted papers , non peer-reviewed papers . This has some value , as an indication of your recent activity . It is especially useful to the committee if you have few papers ( junior researcher ) or have not published much recently ( so that it is clear you are still active ) . Again , you may want to join manuscript ( s ) to your application , or give a link to arXiv if you deposited it there . In preparation , in writing , ... There is no clear standard on threshold for what is a paper " in preparation " , so these are usually worthless on a CV . The only exception is if you have very very few ( or no ) published papers : applying for a PhD position , or early application for post-doc position , with 1 or 2 published papers . Otherwise , my advice is simply not to mention manuscripts you have not finished writing .
Not at all . You are not committed to doing your PhD with the same advisor . Even if you did want to work with the same advisor , he/she should encourage that you talk to others to hear out their ideas . I highly doubt your advisor would be offended to hear that you were interested in speaking to other professors about their research interests . After all , a PhD is a long road , and you need to be really happy with your advisor , and your work , to survive it . In fact , I think it looks positive , even to your advisor , knowing that you have multiple options . I once had a job interview where , upon disclosing that I was also interviewing at other places , that " they would be worried if I was n't " .
If both institutions have supported your project , you should acknowledge both in your poster . To save space , you have a variety of options : Make the logos smaller by scaling them . If available , use a small , square version of the logo rather than a larger rectangular version . Put the logos in a part of the poster that is underutilized . ( For example , left-align the title and authors , and put the logos over to the right side next to the author list . )
I have some experience publishing in CS , so I 'll give you my point of view . The conference requires the authors to pay full delegate registration fees as is required for authors of published works . Is it a common practice ? Yes . In general , every participant is expected to pay in full , no matter what kind of contribution he/she has submitted . You are paying the conference , not your publication . One could argue that this is the main point why many ( weaker ) conferences even have poster and short paper tracks - to get more people to pay full registrations and attend the conference without having to accept too many papers . I was a novice student in the field when I submitted the paper , but have worked a lot in past few months in the area . And I am not looking for any specific inputs into that work anymore . I should comment that this is a somewhat questionable attitude . Even if you are not planning to continue a certain line of research , hearing what others think about your work will help you a lot in future research projects and papers . Also , I do n't think that you can go from novice to ca n't learn anything in the field anymore in the timeframe of a conference paper review process , so I 'll wager that some in the audience will still have reasonable input on your work . Is it worth doing a poster presentation in such case ? I would say this depends on practicalities . Is your advisor OK with paying your conference trip without a full paper to show ? Is it far , will the travel be expensive ? Is it a top conference that you want to attend for the conference 's ( and associated networking 's ) sake ? Have you done many presentations , or will it at least be good training ? That being said , from a scientific point of view , most poster presentations are not very valuable . They do n't count a lot on your CV ( except , maybe , if it really is an absolute top conference ) , and you will not get that much feedback , realistically .
I have written a couple of articles for 2 different daily newspapers . In them , I have discussed the issues of my academic field . Should I include them in my CV ? Yes , certainly , as long as you clearly separate them from your academic publications . Strictly speaking , they are form of publication , so it would n't be lying to list them together with your research papers under a vague enough title , but this would be a very bad idea . It would come across like you are trying to make your publication list look longer by inflating it with non-academic publications . [ If the newspaper articles had nothing at all to do with your academic work , then mentioning them probably would n't make sense . However , it sounds like they do . ] If so , under what title ? Is press release appropriate ? What is the most common and accepted term ? Definitely not press release , since a press release is something else : it 's a document given to journalists to inform them about a possible story they could write about . Occasionally newspapers publish lightly edited versions of press releases , without gathering much more information , but this is considered bad reporting . I do n't think there 's a clear standard for how to list this information . You could list it in several ways : outreach , other publications ( if you have a " scholarly publications " section , say ) , writing for the general public , etc. .
There 's no problem at all with a student being the principal author ( in the sense of " being in charge of the writing " ) of an academic paper . In fact , I think it 's very good that you consider doing so . Here are , however , some thoughts on the matter : Discuss this with your advisor before writing anything . Once both of you have established that there is sufficient matter for publication , and that you want to publish it , you should make plans for doing so . It includes determining ( right now ! ) the authors list , the order of authors on the list , and plan who will do what . The corresponding author ( or corresponding authors ) , often indicated by an asterisk in the authors list and their contact details in a footnote , do not necessarily need to be the person ( s ) who actually did most of the writing . The contact author is the one who is the most central to the project , and who will be able to deal with correspondence about it in the near and not-so-near future . For that reason , some groups ( including mine ) do not consider students a good choice for corresponding author : in two years , they may be gone to a new job and not interested any more with the paper 's research . A few more comments for first time authors : If you 've never written a paper before , do n't underestimate the task . Writing a paper from A to Z is a complex project , even for experienced authors . It requires using many different skills , and is truly an exercise in both scientific reasoning and communication , with very specific constraints ( style , formatting , length limits , ... ) . Assign a lot of time to writing , and do n't hesitate to get help if you 're stuck ! If in doubt while writing , put yourself in the reader 's shoes . And specifically , a non-specialist reader 's shoes . That should be the guiding principle .
end question
start question
Should a TA be doing software development for the professor ?
It sounds to me like you have unusually advanced skills for a TA , and the professor is quite rationally trying to allocate the resource he has control over ( your time as a TA ) to its maximally productive use . That sounds pretty reasonable from the professor 's point of view . Whether he has a right to assign you this particular sort of work would depend on your institution and department . At my department , TAs sign a contract at the beginning of the quarter which includes a list of the types of work they will be expected to do . If the professor wants to add something that is n't on the standard list , that needs to be discussed prior to that stage . The contract also specifies the number of weekly hours the TA will be working , and obviously the professor needs to respect that limitation as well . Now let 's think of how things look from your point of view . I 'm not exactly sure why you feel taken advantage of for being asked to work on the software project , except for details that sound irrelevant to me , such as : that the professor has previously paid someone for a similar service ( maybe he did not have access to a TA with such qualifications as you ) ; that you would have gotten a higher salary for doing similar work in industry ( but you willingly chose to go into a graduate program and subsist on a grad student stipend for a few years ) ; that you are not paid directly for being a TA but through some kind of indirect funding arrangement ( but you are still committed to doing work as a TA for X hours per week , so I do n't see why that should matter ) . If I make the reasonable assumption that the high-value software development work is more intellectually stimulating than other duties the professor can be assigning you as a TA ( grading papers or other boring gruntwork ) , are you not yourself better off working on the software project ? In that case , could it be that the feeling of being exploited is simply regret for choosing this particular academic path when you could have stayed in industry ? To summarize , my feeling is that unless the work the professor is assigning you is completely outside the scope of work that a TA in your department could be reasonably expected to help with ( which may be the case if you are , say , in a humanities program ) , you are probably not being taken advantage of . But perhaps I misunderstood the situation or your reasoning for being concerned ; if you care to clarify any of the details I will reconsider my position . Edit : I 'm sorry if the OP finds my answer a bit tone deaf . I 'm generally quite sensitive to and concerned by the phenomenon of exploitation of graduate students in academia , as can be seen by perusing my SE history . I think it makes sense to revise my verdict slightly : Jack , you are not being taken advantage of any more than TAs are typically taken advantage of . That is , I do n't find anything unusually exploitative about the software development being discussed here , but the whole system of employing graduate students in academia as cheap labor ( whether it 's calling them TA 's , RA 's or something else ) does carry with it an unpleasant whiff of exploitation . This is well known and recognized by many people ( and has provided fodder for many a web comic ) . So you are right to be at least a little concerned about that -- how much exactly depends on your school . But I think that is off-topic given your specific question . Bottom line is , be aware of your rights , and if your contract says you should only work X hours per week , insist on following that to the letter .
The editor needs this letter because she has to make sure that you have adequately taken the reviews into account . She is not going to read your paper to make sure you did . Thus , in your letter , you have to address each comment and explain how you implemented it or explain your good reasons why you chose not to implement it . <URL> is a method for writing a letter that ensures that all reviewer comments are systematically addressed .
All bibliographic software has a learning curve . You have to invest time and energy up front to learn the system and set up your database , and only reap the benefits later in the decreased amortized cost of maintaining correct citations . If somebody does n't think the tradeoff will be worth it ( e.g. , thinks they " are n't good with computers " or does n't think they 'll write many papers that the software would be useful for or is in a rush and is n't thinking about the long term ) , then they may manage a bibliography by hand . For example , I 'm a devout LaTeX/BibTeX user and would never consider doing something by hand -- except that I have done so on a few occasions when forced to use an incompatible format where it was n't worth setting up a new toolchain ( e.g. , putting a few citations at the end of a PowerPoint deck ) .
A review is supposed to provide the view of a peer on the manuscript submitted for publication . An editor needs to take one or several , usually two , reviews to form the basis on deciding on the faith of the submitted manuscript and to form the basis for revisions by the authors . There are very few instances , I have yet to see one , where a paper is publishable as is . There is , however , no clear correlation between usefulness and length of a review . The key is to provide feedback for improvements to ensure the manuscript becomes an as good a contribution as possible . Some reviewers spend much time correcting language or other formal aspects of manuscripts . These sorts of comments are always welcome but the core issues are focussing on the science itself and the clarity with which it is disseminated . So a shorter form of report contains the core scientific and clarity issues encountered and perhaps general comments on other shortcomings , a longer report details also the detailed issues . The size of the reports obviously depend on the quality of the manuscript but also on your expertise . Some times editors appoint reviewers to cover a narrower but vital aspect of the manuscript . The good review should be critical , fair and objective and provide both the editor and authors with suggestions for improvement . By necessity this will be more than just a few paragraphs of comments
I would like to answer this question for the best interest of the student 's , not yours . You are supervising bachelor students . They may go to academia or industry after graduation . If the student will pursue academic career after he graduates , then you should tell him to use the tools that are widely used in academia because it 's for his best interest . I think force is a too strong word . To convince him is what you would do . However , if he will go to industry , why waste his time to learn something he probably will never use for the rest of his life ? If the student does n't know what he wants to do after he graduates , it 's time for him to think about it now . Is n't it ? Here is my personal experience while I was in industry . I had to produce some document which contained math equations . I wanted to use LaTex . MS word was the tool I was told to use because of maintainability issue ( no one else in my department knew how to use Latex ) . I had to follow the order . Matlab is another story . It 's also used in industry .
In essence there is no problem , here in the UK , for the lecturers/professors to join societies . I experienced it first hand , both as a student and lecturer , and loved it . But you have the following ethical responsibilities : Socializing and Not Dating : Most social clubs go out a lot . For example , they might go to some other part of the country to do hill walking , or pub crawling which involves loads of drinking . The bottom line is that you can socialize with students , but do n't lose your mind and start dating a student while camping somewhere . Some social clubs are hubs for dating , so join them for the cause and socializing , and avoid dating altogether . Close Friendships : Here in the UK , in my experience at least , some students are looking for an easy way out of studying . They are young , and therefore they just want to get by . Do n't create a situation where they can take advantage of you and abuse your friendship . Overall , know your limitations . Deal with students outside the university in a respectable manner , and do n't get too comfortable . At the end of the day , you are the lecturer and they are the students .
I do n't think that survey URL 's domain plays a significant role in trustworthiness of a doctoral survey request . What is far more important IMHO are the contents and writing style of the invitation letter as well as having solid professional or academic online profiles ( as most likely most people will be looking you up anyway ) . In regard to the software selection aspect , my advice is to check the following resources : <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Just keep in mind that some answers are posted by people , affiliated with firms - creators of some survey software . Finally , I would like to emphasize that , when selecting survey software , it is important to consider its features and format flexibility in exporting the results for further data analysis ( I assume such analysis is planned ) .
I 'd guess that this depends on the field . In mathematics in the U.S. , one factor is your relationship with the student . If you are the Ph.D. advisor or a close mentor , then the letter should be at least two pages long ( maybe rounding up a little ) or it risks looking unsupportive , and three or four pages is not uncommon . For other letter writers , I 'd recommend at least a page , and good letters are often two pages or longer . Of course these are n't absolute rules , and it 's possible to write a great letter that 's shorter , but it 's a little risky . The reason for the length is to give a chance to discuss the student 's work ( you can explain what they did , what some of the background and context is , why it 's exciting , why the student 's contributions are impressive , etc. ) . You can easily fill most of a page with generalities about other things - what your relationship with the student is , what your general opinion is , a paragraph about teaching and communication skills , etc. . It 's hard to cover this and say much about the student 's work within one page , so a one-page letter sometimes suggests that either the recommender does n't know the student very well or they do n't have much to say about the work . Overall , I 'd say that whatever is needed is OK . The worst case scenario is that the committee will start skimming partway through , but that 's not a disaster .
I 'd recommend against sending such an e-mail to someone you do n't know well . If you 've got serious reason to fear there may be competition that neither of you wants , then perhaps a mutual friend could help sort it out ; if you do n't , then I would n't worry about it . One danger is that the e-mail can come across as aggressively staking out territory . Even just asking whether someone is working on this topic can be read as " speak now or forever hold your peace " , with the implication that unless they announce it now , you 'll be seriously offended if they end up competing with you on this topic . This is not a fair position to put someone in , since research can be unpredictable and their work may end up having consequences for these topics that they do not yet foresee . Collaboration can also be a touchy issue . It 's sometimes a mutually beneficial way to resolve this sort of situation , but not always . It can be awkward when someone you do n't know well suggests a collaboration , since no matter what excuses you offer , it 's hard to avoid the appearance that declining a collaboration request is a negative judgement on the person making the request . If you know someone well , you may be able to avoid these difficulties , but I would n't try it otherwise . If you 're a graduate student , then your advisor should help with situations like this . For example , they should make sure potential competitors are aware of your thesis project ( at least in mathematics , it 's considered extremely bad form to compete with a grad student , and part of the advisor 's role is to minimize the chances of accidental competition ) .
It is n't much clear as to why Mr. K would insist you to work with Ms. E . It might be either of the following It might most probably of Ms. E 's suggestion/influence . They might be on the same team ( @virmaior 's point ) Mr. K has just got another student he prefers over you . To figure out why and how to react bases on why , @demitau 's suggestion would be most appropriate ; speaking openly with Mr. K should provide a solution . If the answer to the last question is what you require ( how to let Ms. E know I 'd rather work with Mr. K ? ) then the most diplomatic approach is to say something like this : state that you feel much honoured to work with her . But it seems you current research interest are much inclined to that of Mr. K. Hence the decision .
Yes , it will make it harder to get a job as a professor of computer science . A distance learning PhD is not well suited for learning certain skills that one would learn in a traditional PhD , as described in more detail at <URL> . Some of these skills are important for getting a job as a professor and/or doing the job of a professor . For example , you would not get any teaching experience in a distance learning course , and most faculty applicants are expected to have at least some teaching experience . Furthermore , by doing a PhD by distance learning , you miss out on a lot of the networking and exposure to other academics that happens in a good computer science PhD program . This plays a major role in getting a faculty job afterwards . The exception to this is if you were to get a job where the PhD is necessary only as a formality . For example , if you are already so well known in your field that every university wants to hire you , but ca n't because their HR departments insist that faculty candidates must have a PhD , then a distance learning PhD might be sufficient .
Yes , you should . First , most scientific software is terrible . I 'd be very surprised if yours is worse than average : the mere fact you know design patterns and the difference between recursion and loops suggests it 's better . Second , it 's unlikely you 'll have the incentive or motivation to make it better unless , or until , it 's needed by someone else ( or you in 6 months ) . Making it open gives you that incentive . Potential upsides : possible new collaborators , bugfixes , extensions , publications . Potential downsides : timesink ( maintaining code or fixing problems for other people ) , getting scooped . I 'll be clear : I do n't take either of these downsides very seriously .
If you look at income alone , it 's definitely not worth it - assuming you do n't live in a country in which " Herr Doktor " is still highly regarded , and an almost must for high-end jobs in politics and business ( like in Germany or Austria ) . In industry , there are a few jobs ( chip design for Intel or quantitative hedge funds come to mind ; maybe in consulting it 's a toss up ; certainly there are others ) where it might help . There are also jobs where it 's required to have a PhD ( some chemistry research , or such ) , or at least very beneficial . But outside these somewhat rare positions , HR will put you on a pile called " non-standard degree " which is largely ignored , and you rely on personal connections or quantitative recruiters to even get your foot in . If you end up in academia as tenured faculty , you get a decent salary with a wide range ( e.g. , at the top end , Business School finance assistant professors lie around $ 200k at good schools , to a low end that 's a fraction of that if the school or department is less wealthy , or the field less supported by industry ) . But if you 're smart and driven enough to get there , you almost certainly could have long made partner at McKinsey by that time , where you wo n't go home with less than $ 1m . I think the term " still " in your title is a bit off . I do n't think this ever was different . You should write a Ph.D. as you 're passionate about a field , look for independence , and genuinely love what you 're working on . And you should be aware early , and accept , that this is not a choice made for the money .
Take special care defining the rules , previously , and stick to them . You should have a specific list of objectives and the associated grades . This is implicit on tests , more explicit on projects . For instance , when elaborating written exams , I usually try to cover the whole syllabus ( for that part ) , with questions of different difficulties , for instance , 4 questions , one easy , two moderate , one harder . That way I can easily see who really knows the content and who is just coasting by ... If a student reaches all predefined objectives , that person earned an A. And you can easily prove it by showing that he indeed reached the objectives . It would be highly unethical not to give a deserving student an A for political concerns of some suit ...
As the name implies , a statement of purpose should be forward-looking as much as possible . The " biographical " element of a statement of purpose should be included only to the extent that it helps to explain what you want to do as a graduate student . You most certainly do not want to start off with recollections of early childhood and the first time you realized you want to be a researcher . Instead , spend your efforts explaining why you want to be a graduate student in the department to which you 're applying . You should make specific reference to how your research will fit into the department 's interests . ( For instance , do n't propose a project in area X if the department does n't have a specialist in X. ) If you 're in a field where the advisor selection is made after matriculation , then you likely want to present a somewhat broader profile . If you show interest in only one professor 's work , then you are dependent on the decision of that single advisor ( who may or may not be on the admissions committee ! ) .
I would like to suggest that you read the speech <URL> on how to do great research . It 's one that I revisit every once in a while when my own scientific motivations are becoming unclear and need to be refreshed . In reading it , it 's important to keep in mind that the speech is thirty years old , and it is addressing things that happened even decades before that , so there are some jarring cultural gaps both with regards to science and with regards to the rest of society . Nevertheless , I find the central ideas to be still very relevant and valuable today . Importantly , Hamming distinguishes between things that you need to do in order to not fail and things that you need to do in order to have a real impact . These are very different , and it is important to distinguish between them . Important research is not the same as any of the " productivity metrics , " and the correlation is often a trailing indicator , not a leading indicator . For example : you say you are concerned that you are publishing only one paper per year . Step back and ask : why am I concerned about this ? You can publish lots of papers without ever doing anything really creative or important . You can have a full , tenured , and comfortable career that way . And honestly , that 's an OK choice to make . Some people go too far the other way , and strike out so deep into their own creative world that they can never publish their ideas , and they also fail to have an impact ( indeed , the most extreme of them we label cranks ) . In between is the dangerous and subversive world that Hamming describes , where you teeter back and forth on the balance between compliant conformity to metrics and egotistical creative rebellion . It does n't guarantee greatness , but it may be a fascinating ride , and it just might get you somewhere really worth going .
First to answer your titular question : What is a TA called when he/she is in charge of organization ? Such a position does ( in theory ) not exist , as a TA as by definition supposed to " assist " somebody else and not run the show on her/his own ( I am aware that this is not how it sometimes works in practice ) . Generally , you need to keep in mind that title and scope of academic positions , especially regarding teaching , are quite different between US and Germany , so you will likely not be able to do an accurate 1-to-1 mapping . I would write " Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter " in the CV and explain what you actually did . Translating it to english is prone to confusion . If you write TA , people will underestimate your responsibility in the course , if you write something like lecturer , people may infer that you already had a faculty position and will be confused by the perceived mismatch with the rest of your CV .
Allow me to strongly disagree with eykanal 's answer . There is no universal standard . You must ask your advisor in advance what her coauthorship policy is . In theoretical computer science ( and mathematics ) , it is generally considered unethical to list someone as a co-author who has not made a novel and significant intellectual contribution to the paper . In particular , merely funding the research is not considered an intellectual contribution . Adding a supervisor 's name to a paper to which they have not directly , intellectually contributed is lying . In practice , writing a good grant proposal requires at least as much intellectual novelty as writing a good paper . Most of the good ideas that PIs pour into their proposals also appear in papers ; as long as those ideas constitute novel intellectual contributions , the PI merits co-authorship . But that only works once per idea ; once an idea has been published , it 's no longer novel , by definition . To be specific and personal : I am not a coauthor on all of my PhD students ' papers . ( Of course , I still report my students ' independent work back to NSF as outcomes on whatever grants supported them . So I still get credit from NSF for having the foresight to fund the student . ) The same is true of all the other theoretical computer science faculty in my department . My PhD advisor is a co-author on only one of the papers I published as a PhD student . My PhD advisor does n't have a single co-authored paper with his advisor .
As a prior commenter noted , you can be silent on the issue without prejudice from the admissions officer . In fact , it 's quite common for graduate students not to make the thesis/no thesis decision until they have a semester or a couple of quarters behind them . The decision to write a thesis is often the product of one 's evolution during graduate work . For example , if you were to decide that you want to pursue a doctorate , then writing a thesis has distinct advantages , the most important of which is that it prepares you for writing a dissertation . Conversely , if you want the broadest knowledge and lab experience , course work is preferable .
In addition to the good advice to request the letter now ( or let the professor know now that you will request a letter later ) , I would recommend emailing the professor every year or so between now and then . In addition to letting him/her know what you 're up to , say how valuable you 've found what you learned in his/her class , if you can do so honestly , although do n't overdo it . For example , you might say : " What I learned about Scheme closures in your Programming Languages class turned out to be really useful when working with JavaScript on the job . " or " I found your handout on MVC so helpful that I 've shared it with my co-workers , who also appreciated it " . I disagree with Farhan about meeting with a professor 2-3 times/year . Professors ' time is very valuable , and I would find such a request demanding/awkward .
end question
start question
How to get my humanities paper published in the short timeframe before admissions deadline ?
Journal review times in the humanities tend to be longish and I doubt that you 'd have a paper accepted in a journal of sufficient quality to impress anybody . ( I just got back yesterday a round of comments from a paper I submitted in September . ) If I were you , I 'd maybe try to submit a paper to a graduate conference instead . Look around for Ph.D. granting programs in your field in the area and send them a paper/abstract . It 's much less work for you to write up an abstract , and a much higher likelihood of actually getting something accepted in a reasonable timeframe . An undergrad getting something into a grad conference is probably sufficient to make the committees think you 've got potential as a researcher . Maybe it is n't quite as impressive to have a presentation as a publication , but I doubt that 'd be a big factor here . To get accepted to a grad program , you just have to get past a threshold of potential , and doing something that puts you way , way above that threshold ( publication in a reputable professional journal ) just is n't really any more helpful to getting accepted than doing something that just barely puts you above that threshold ( a grad conference presentation ) . One exception here : if you have a paper or something that one of your profs was just raving about and told you that you just have to publish it in Such And Such Journal , then yeah , maybe shoot it off , but do n't expect it to get picked up in time to make a difference in your apps .
Speaking as someone in field not too far from yours : sure , it would help if you had done all of the stuff you 've listed and written a paper about it . But having a bunch of conference presentations under your belt ( oral and posters ) is still pretty impressive ; and there are many applicants to Ph.D. programs without any research experience at all . The fact that you 've done research , and that your advisor thought it was worth presenting at multiple conferences , is a pretty big item in your favor . Oh , and it should go without saying that this professor should be one of your recommenders ( absent any major falling-out or other complicating circumstances . )
This is clearly answered in the comments by @Stephan Kolassa ( making community wiki here just to post an answer for the question ) . Absolutely do NOT resubmit the paper ! If you do , you could end up having everything rejected . Contact the editors of the journal . 3.5 months is not such a long time for journal review in many fields ( unfortunately ) but it is sufficient time to warrant a quick friendly email to the editor asking what the progress is . Though you should not pester the editor , contacting them after 3.5 months seems perfectly reasonable . But keep a friendly/deferential tone . ( Do n't demand or complain ... just ask for info . ) ( And best of luck with the reviews . The first submission is always the most nerve-wrecking . If it works out , then great . If not , try not to sweat it too much . Rejection happens to nearly everyone . )
I see three different issues in what you have described : You make some mistakes in computations . That happens to all of us , but whether you should be concerned about it depends on what type of mistakes you are making . You need to look at what mistakes you are making and how , and see whether they are " sloppy " mistakes ( in which case you can develop a checklist for yourself to avoid making them ) or whether they are just coming form the fact that research is hard . You submitted to a paper without consulting with your advisor ( and maybe dual-submitted as well ) . This is a serious problem , especially if you did a simultaneous submission to two journals , which is almost always forbidden and unethical . If your advisor is a co-author , then you are definitely in the wrong to submit without approval : you are not taking responsibility for yourself , you are denying responsibility to your co-author . Even if you did not commit either ethical sin , most advisors want to help advise their students , and submitting without consulting is a good way to make mistakes that will reflect badly on both yourself and your advisor . Your advisor has been angry at you , and you are losing self-confidence . Maybe you need to lose some of the undergraduate-style self-confidence , and to develop a more mature self-confidence . What you describe as " being responsible " and " working your hardest " does not actually sound like responsibility to me : it sounds like you are not yet reflecting on how to manage your own behavior and its impact on others . For all of this , I think self-reflection and learning from your mistakes is the solution . If you can understand how you have been making mistakes , then you can act to make them less likely in the future , and all three of these issues are likely to improve .
If you were asked to re-review an " unchanged " manuscript there are a number of things you can do ( e.g. , <URL> ) . The issue is that this is not the case . You are no longer part of the review process . The first thing you should do is STOP . The behavior you have engaged in so far has been completely unethical and a clear violation of every reviewer agreement I have ever seen . Your colleague should never have told you about the paper under review . You should not have mention that you reviewed a similar paper in the past . Neither of you should have mentioned authors or the title . The actual manuscripts should never have been shared and/or compared To a lesser extent , it is not even clear why you still have your copy of the manuscript . The Committee on Publication Ethics ( COPE ) provides <URL> which can be thought of as best practice . These include : respect the confidentiality of peer review and not reveal any details of a manuscript or its review , during or after the peer-review process , beyond those that are released by the journal not involve anyone else in the review of a manuscript , including junior researchers they are mentoring , without first obtaining permission from the journal ; the names of any individuals who have helped them with the review should be included with the returned review so that they are associated with the manuscript in the journal 's records and can also receive due credit for their efforts . keep all manuscript and review details confidential .
I started with my PhD two years ago , and I understand what you 're asking . There is large number of things you want to consider before enrolling in PhD , I 'll try to summarize my experience and some advises . Bottom line , when applying to PhD you want to make sure that you have these things covered : Clear understanding of what your future research will be . When you start working on your studies , passing exams ( in case you have formal exams as I do ) you 'll want to link these subjects to your main research as much as possible . Make sure you found mentor . I guess this will be professor who offer you PhD , but it can vary depending on field of studies . Check options of scholarship , since PhD studies and research can be quite expensive , depending on your area . Interesting resources and links related to this subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> < -- check this one <URL> < -- Nice checklist Related to funding/scholarships , inside a site findaphd there are 2 sections to be considered : <URL> <URL> Now , about more important matter - choosing good PhD subject , mentor and defining a hypothesis . My biggest challenge was finding out what my specific subject will be ( and what domain will it be applied to ) , cause every mentor expect you to have idea what you want to do . If you try to simply " Google it " it wo n't be of much use . Few approaches helped me here : Open account on <URL> , publish some of your earlier papers and works . After that connect to a people with a same research interests as yours and read their papers and current issues . You 'll be surprised what you 'll find after just couple of days . When you search for books use <URL> instead of simple Google , you 'll find lots of interesting papers on your subject probably . Try to find " problems " , cause your future work MUST provide new benefit , you must solve problem . In order to solve it , you 'll first read about current state of that problem . To summarize it , these are steps you probably want to take : Define your field of research Define domain and mentor Find scholarship module Open account on Academia.edu and upload your papers Research Academia.edu and Google Scholar for issues and opportunities Define hypothesis and general idea for your future PhD Prepare everything in nice documentation and enroll All best ,
" Published " is a vague word , since for example you can even self-publish a book . Ideally , a published book will have been carefully selected and edited , widely distributed , archived in many libraries , etc. . How close it comes to this ideal varies , of course . I do n't know whether what you are describing would meet a formal definition of publication , but I 'd be careful about how you describe it . For example , if your book has an ISBN , is labeled with a publisher like " X University Press " , and is publicly offered for sale ( perhaps only through the university 's website and university bookstore ) , then I would consider it published , even if only on a small scale . ( It may be cheap , but there 's no requirement that a published book must have gilded pages . ) However , that sounds unlikely to be true in the case you 've described . Instead , you could describe it in other ways : If anyone who wants a copy can buy one by getting in touch with your department , then you could describe it as a " book distributed by the Department of ... at University X " . If your book is not offered for sale to anyone except students in the course , then you might describe it as a " book prepared as course materials for ... at University X " . You might also want to specify something like the number of pages , to help distinguish between a lengthy book and shorter lecture notes .
I 'll try to explain the problem from both perspectives : author and a journal typesetter . The typesetting process goes as follows : We pre-plan the issue contents 2 months in advance , in order to balance the issues in size . This is necessary for small journals with 4 or 6 issues per year , not quite for large journals with a long publishing queue . At this moment , we take articles that are accepted . If there 's not enough of them , we go through the queue and try to find articles that can be accepted quickly . Now the authors provide the final version . This takes some time , so I receive the articles usually 4-6 weeks before the issue date . That 's not a lot of time . Most articles are typeset within 1-2 weeks after I receive them . With these , there 's no problem at all . However , then you have articles that take more time , since the quality of the figures is being discussed , as well as semantics ( when the formatting from the authors is poor and the semantics are not clear ) etc. . This takes some time . So it can happen that the article is typeset like 2 weeks before the issue date , or even less . So now the article is typeset and is with the authors for proofs . Any correction they make has to be incorporated . Sometimes it 's not easy ( requests for replacing a figure with a better one , for moving figures to other pages etc. are not uncommon ) . Sometimes I strongly disagree with the authors on these . In such cases , we need to have yet another couple mails exchanged or the chief editor involved , and that takes time again . At this moment you see that 24 or 48 hours can be the maximum we can give . Once all articles get back , the issue has to be made ready , articles published online , CrossRef + Scopus metadata prepared , DOI registered etc. . That 's the perspective of the journal I typeset . I hope that it is clear that the publication comprises a lot of steps . When the authors are cooperative and reasonable , everything goes fluently and the final version is ready 4 weeks before deadline . And then you have cases when things do n't go quite well , and you get very close to the deadlines . Moreover , to make things easier ( and reduce the amount of work just before the issue date ) , you leave authors quite a short time for response . In most cases , there is plenty of time left , but if 80 % of people misuse this time , we work 16 hours a day the last 3 days before the issue date to sort everything out , and we simply want to avoid this . From the perspective of the author , 48 hours is not much for proofreading an article , especially since this has to be done very carefully . However , in most cases , if you ask for extension ( a 5-line mail with a very short request is enough ) , it will be granted without any problem . Just please do n't misuse the possibility .
First off the fact that one group is dominating will be implicitly understood if you provide a paragraph or two summarizing their work and cite their publications . In such a paragraph you could add words like " ground-breaking " or phrases that describe the dominance of the group on the field . You could for example start the paragraph by saying : " The work concerning risk assessment of [ ... ] has largely been carried out by [ the research group ] ( example citations ) . " ( I hope you see the main idea of my attempt ) Then you follow up on what they have done and cite their work . It is just important to keep the tone as neutral as possible and let the citeable work speak for itself . Spending one or more paragraphs describing the work should be enough to make everyone understand the message .
In principle you can cite other , submitted work in a research paper . Just give the authors , paper title , and either " Submitted . " or " Submitted to [ venue ] . " in the reference list . However , both as a reviewer and reader , I usually find this disappointing . I already came across several cases where I was n't able to find the cited paper even years after publication of the paper with the citation . It is well possible that the cited paper is rejected , and maybe someone just does n't follow up to really get it published . As a better alternative , check whether you can put a preprint version of the paper you want to cite online ( e.g. on arxiv ) , and just cite that .
If you are ready to invest a small sum , Amazon Mechanical Turk <URL> might be a good place to look .
If you have published a paper , you should include it in your CV . It does not matter what language the paper is in . For the aid of people who do not speak the language , however , you may wish to include a translation of the paper title as a note , e.g. , : J. Caesar , Commentarii de Bello Gallico [ Commentaries on the Gallic war ] , Caesar House Press , 49 BC , ( in Latin )
The customary way to do this is to refer in the manual to the paper . You are probably not allowed to copy-paste the text of the published paper . If you are concerned about the paywall , many journals allow you to use/distribute the manuscript which you submitted to the journal ( prior to editing ) - but you should verify this first for Nature Methods .
We have the same phenomenon in America , of course . All other things being equal , a 3.5 GPA from Princeton is much more impressive than a 4.0 from some random state university . The whole idea of GRE scores is to provide a metric that is n't confounded by the difficulty of different programs at different colleges in these ways . An additional difficulty you face is that your American evaluators wo n't know how good or bad your university is . This makes your GRE score doubly important .
Journal review times in the humanities tend to be longish and I doubt that you 'd have a paper accepted in a journal of sufficient quality to impress anybody . ( I just got back yesterday a round of comments from a paper I submitted in September . ) If I were you , I 'd maybe try to submit a paper to a graduate conference instead . Look around for Ph.D. granting programs in your field in the area and send them a paper/abstract . It 's much less work for you to write up an abstract , and a much higher likelihood of actually getting something accepted in a reasonable timeframe . An undergrad getting something into a grad conference is probably sufficient to make the committees think you 've got potential as a researcher . Maybe it is n't quite as impressive to have a presentation as a publication , but I doubt that 'd be a big factor here . To get accepted to a grad program , you just have to get past a threshold of potential , and doing something that puts you way , way above that threshold ( publication in a reputable professional journal ) just is n't really any more helpful to getting accepted than doing something that just barely puts you above that threshold ( a grad conference presentation ) . One exception here : if you have a paper or something that one of your profs was just raving about and told you that you just have to publish it in Such And Such Journal , then yeah , maybe shoot it off , but do n't expect it to get picked up in time to make a difference in your apps .
I published my PhD thesis as a book in VDM verlag . It publishes PhD dissertations and working with them is quite easy . The only problem is they put a relatively high price on your book and this might reduce the sale of your book . Due to this problem , I have received no royalty from my book yet . So if you think any other publisher can do better ( financially ) it is better you consider another publisher . Their publishing strategy is based on printing on demand . It means they publish a few copies of your book and sell them to some big libraries around the world . Then if an individual purchases your book online , they publish it for him as they receive the order . If you want to publish your book quickly and easily , you may want to use their service . for more information about their work see <URL> or their website <URL> .
In order for me to want to write a student a good letter of recommendation , I typically want to see two things : mastery of the material ( at least enough to earn an A - or better in the course ) engagement with the material Most often ( 2 ) comes through asking me good questions in office hours , although in one case that I recall , I was really impressed with the student 's final paper . Although she already had the top grade in the course , she went above and beyond on the final paper . I wrote her a glowing letter of rec , and she ended up winning at least one scholarship . Now to answer your question , I suggest that you approach a web-based course similarly . Obviously , work hard to do well in the course . But also make an effort to get to know the instructor a bit . Many web-based courses have some type of office hours ( perhaps a scheduled chat-room time ) . Whatever format you have available , take advantage of it ( possibly this could be only a forum ; not ideal , but still workable ) . Take time to think of good questions about the material , and ask them in office hours . If you have the chance , let the instructor get to know you a bit , too . It 's much easier for your instructor to write a letter of rec for you if they know you well enough to have something to say .
I would definitely consider including this in your CV . It 's scientific work , and you <URL> . It would make sense to put this under a separate heading , so your publication list contains " Peer-reviewed publications " and " Non-peer-reviewed publications " - this way , you do n't give the impression of trying to inflate your publication list by sneaking in some non-reviewed stuff . If at a later date you have authored multiple R ( or other ) packages and perhaps published other non-reviewed material , you could subdivide the " Non-peer-reviewed publications " by splitting off software into its own section .
Warning : personal opinion . I view conferences that regularly shift submission deadlines as a little suspect . You 're right that this happens in CS conferences , and it soon becomes pointless because everyone expects the extension ( " <URL> " ) . But your estimate of 80 % is rather off . Almost none of the ( many ) conferences I submit to have deadline extensions for submission of the full paper . And do n't underestimate the level of pleading that goes on . People will always ask for an extension if they have even a smidgen of hope that the pleading will work . It 's only when a conference takes a firm stand for many years that people stop asking .
The change only appears trivial to you now that you know about it . Moreover , while the change may be simple , the validation of that change is not : I 'm sure there 's lots of experiments to run to verify your statement , and maybe some new analyses to be performed as well . To me , this sounds like a fine opportunity for a followup . If your paper was published in a conference , then the improved version can go into the " extended version " journal paper . If your paper was already published in a journal , this is a good time to follow up with a short conference paper . If you 're in a field that does n't like conferences , there will probably be journals that take " short papers " or " application notes " or some similar . Bottom line : one way or another , there should be a good place to put this not-as-trivial-as-you-think piece of work .
end question
start question
How to be creative in doing research ?
I would like to suggest that you read the speech <URL> on how to do great research . It 's one that I revisit every once in a while when my own scientific motivations are becoming unclear and need to be refreshed . In reading it , it 's important to keep in mind that the speech is thirty years old , and it is addressing things that happened even decades before that , so there are some jarring cultural gaps both with regards to science and with regards to the rest of society . Nevertheless , I find the central ideas to be still very relevant and valuable today . Importantly , Hamming distinguishes between things that you need to do in order to not fail and things that you need to do in order to have a real impact . These are very different , and it is important to distinguish between them . Important research is not the same as any of the " productivity metrics , " and the correlation is often a trailing indicator , not a leading indicator . For example : you say you are concerned that you are publishing only one paper per year . Step back and ask : why am I concerned about this ? You can publish lots of papers without ever doing anything really creative or important . You can have a full , tenured , and comfortable career that way . And honestly , that 's an OK choice to make . Some people go too far the other way , and strike out so deep into their own creative world that they can never publish their ideas , and they also fail to have an impact ( indeed , the most extreme of them we label cranks ) . In between is the dangerous and subversive world that Hamming describes , where you teeter back and forth on the balance between compliant conformity to metrics and egotistical creative rebellion . It does n't guarantee greatness , but it may be a fascinating ride , and it just might get you somewhere really worth going .
I 've had a lot of undergrads in my lab ( physics ) . Unlike Corvus , I 'd say that certainly more than half have been net positives to the group 's research , and several have been very productive . The two most important things , I would say , are : A lot of direct contact and guidance -- not by email , but actual conversation -- either ( ideally ) from you ( the PI ) or from graduate students committed to the project and to mentoring someone . Simply being clear about tasks to be done , etc. , is insufficient ; every new researcher comes in without a good grasp of the motivations of the field , the challenges of exploring something new , etc. , and these are only surmounted by talking to people . Several times , I 've had great conversations with undergraduates in which I point out that I 'm thrilled that their experiment has failed , because now they can better understand what doing science is like , and they can pick themselves up , learn from what happened , and try again , and this is what makes them ' real ' researchers . I require a commitment of more than a few hours a week . If people are n't putting this in , we chat about the impossibility of having a meaningful project , and , again , learning how to be a ' real ' researcher . Sometimes people drop out ( or I ask them to leave ) if the motivation to do this is n't there . There 's no point in mentoring someone who ca n't commit real effort , and it does n't do them or you any favors . Your question is a great one . Best of luck , and please do n't think that mentoring undergrad research should just be a net-negative " service . " It does take a lot of work , but it can pay off !
A review is supposed to provide the view of a peer on the manuscript submitted for publication . An editor needs to take one or several , usually two , reviews to form the basis on deciding on the faith of the submitted manuscript and to form the basis for revisions by the authors . There are very few instances , I have yet to see one , where a paper is publishable as is . There is , however , no clear correlation between usefulness and length of a review . The key is to provide feedback for improvements to ensure the manuscript becomes an as good a contribution as possible . Some reviewers spend much time correcting language or other formal aspects of manuscripts . These sorts of comments are always welcome but the core issues are focussing on the science itself and the clarity with which it is disseminated . So a shorter form of report contains the core scientific and clarity issues encountered and perhaps general comments on other shortcomings , a longer report details also the detailed issues . The size of the reports obviously depend on the quality of the manuscript but also on your expertise . Some times editors appoint reviewers to cover a narrower but vital aspect of the manuscript . The good review should be critical , fair and objective and provide both the editor and authors with suggestions for improvement . By necessity this will be more than just a few paragraphs of comments
In modern dynamic society it is next to impossible to predict what happens with education systems , universities , and job market in 20 years time . Also , the success in finding an academic job depends highly on the skill of a candidate , and we do not know what your skills are now , and will be after 20 years . It is unlikely that you find the precise answer to your question here . However , it is very likely that a proper education , and a " badge " which confirms it , will be still of some value . Therefore , quitting the high school may really be not the wisest choice . Of course , there are stories of prominent success of people without any degree , and it is tempting to revolt the system and prove yourself a hero . Just bear in mind that a great amount of people without any degree achieve nothing and remain unknown to most . A real genius may ( and hopefully will ) rise no matter what , but in the long run and on average people with the structured education and degrees are more successful in getting themselves high-skilled jobs .
In Germany it is typical to apply for public funding through the federal ministries such as BMWI or BMBF . You can look up funding programs at the BMWI Förderdatenbank . You will find some information about the programs of the BMBF <URL> ( in german ) . Usually the ministries have certain topics open which you can apply for with a consortium of different industrial and academic partners . At least that 's how we get public funding . See <URL> for a currently open call for application .
How to handle this depends on your field . If your field has a notion of first author , then " [ name of first author ] et al. " is appropriate . In fields like math that use alphabetical ordering , I 'd strongly recommend naming all the authors , since " et al. " could be read as diminishing the credit later authors get . I would not be happy if my name disappeared into an " et al. " The sentence " [ last name of author 1 ] , [ last name of author 2 ] , [ last name of author 3 ] and [ last name of author 4 ] provide an interesting insight in their case study ... " sounds fine to me . ( I.e. , the same sentence as in the question , except that I assume " Andria A , Paul S , Derek B and Howard C " are just stand-ins for the actual names , and not actually a proposal for how to format the names . )
To answer the first question : I asked a similar question on twitter a while back and got a range of responses . Those are summarized in a <URL> . To paraphrase that summary ... open access to data open access to code open access to publications open source work must be reproducible needs to be web enabled The last bit , and I think this is an important component , is that open science is not binary . It occurs along a gradient . As for you second question , I would use reproducibility as a guide . The minimum data that needs to be accessible is that which allows for an anlalysis/project to be reproduced . Following the gradient theme , you could open up more than this , but that it is n't necessarily required .
The other answers already explain that no , you should n't be doing research all the time , with no time for breaks , relaxation and other interests . All this is quite correct . However , I am a bit unsure whether the stark dichotomy " all research all the time " versus " a few hours in the morning " is really helpful here . Maybe an answer to the following question is more helpful : Is doing a Ph.D. right for you if you plan on doing it as a 9-5 job , 40 hours per week ? And there , I would be a bit more careful . Yes , there are people who can do a Ph.D. like a " normal job " , at their desk at 9am sharp and dropping their pencils at 5pm . It is possible . However , my personal impression is that these people will avoid the typical Ph.D. burnout , but they will likely not be top performers . So my answer to the modified question above is : You will probably do fine with a 40 hour workweek , if you make sure to stay self-motivated . However , you should think deeply about just why you want to do a Ph.D. . . because unless you are uncommonly brilliant , you will likely not be productive enough to stay in academia and compete with people who routinely put in 50-60 hours per week . You may want to think about leaving academe with the Ph.D. and going into industry . Note that I am not saying " 40 hour Ph.D. students " are lazy . However , if you ca n't work up the level of passion and commitment to your topic that makes you want to put in 50-60 hours per week often , then there will likely be someone else , and that someone else will have more publications five or ten years down the road .
Suppose , a PhD student is either introvert or bad in interpersonal communications or both . Would he find any trouble ? All of us , in academia and outside of it , are better at some things and less good at other things . People who are very poor at interpersonal relationships are often astonishingly good at many things . To be successful , one tries to exploit one 's talents while at the same time overcoming or learning to work around one 's deficiencies , or even turning one 's worst liabilities into assets in some surprising way ( e.g. , a comedian making a career out of making fun of themselves for being a neurotic slob with bad habits ) . Some people have even become famous for completely overcoming a significant adversity in the form of a physical or mental disability that stood in their way of becoming successful at something . The case of <URL> is one example from sports that comes to mind ( notwithstanding his later downfall into infamy by being convicted of the murder of his girlfriend ) , and there are many other examples . In the context of academia , unquestionably the most famous person who can be cited as an example in connection with your question is <URL> . I saw her speak a few years ago when she came to my university , and she is a remarkable and awe-inspiring woman . I could n't begin to give a good description of how amazing she is , so I recommend checking out her books , or watching the movie ( starring Claire Danes ) made about her . Suffice it to say that she grew up with autism , and having a fairly extreme case of being " either introvert or bad in interpersonal communications or both " , and yet became a stunningly successful animal scientist ( her main job is as a professor at Colorado State University ) . She is a great inspiration to many people who are either on the autism spectrum or are just extremely introverted or different from what is thought to be " normal " in some other way , and part of her advocacy is in convincing such people and their families that they are often capable of achieving a lot more than the society around them assumes . Bottom line : if Temple Grandin could succeed , so can the PhD student you are asking about . And besides , many other less famous people in academia are both introverted and not especially good at interpersonal communications , and become very successful anyway . I 'm not saying it 's necessarily a good thing to be , and it may make sense for your friend to work on getting better at those things , but I absolutely would n't assume that it will be a career-killing problem .
Ok I did this before . This is actually quite simple and straightforward , so without sugar coating it , you should have three main parts : Introduction and Conclusion : The reader should be able to go only through your introduction and conclusion chapters , and see what is going on . I 'm hoping you know what chapter numbers they are by now ! Background and Related Work : After introduction you should have a solid background and related work chapter ( s ) . Do n't introduce something that you do n't use and do n't hide some background read here . Ok ok , the last two parts you did n't ask for but I wrote it to be a complete reference for others . Ok now to your questions : ' I 'm a qualified PhD ' chapters ! : Now two to four chapters should be explicitly cover your own work . So : 3.1 Separate theory from practice : I do n't want to see some theory stuff and then suddenly a pipeline to a compiler . It has many advantages in terms of defending it and then correcting it later on if necessary . Also the examiners will see that you are well rounded computer scientist ; therefore you know your practice as well as theory and vice versa . So basically , you do n't want to have an impression on examiners that you just injected theory/practice because you are weak in practice/theory . 3.2 Unify Your approaches : Can you find a common ground between all the techniques you used ? For example , you could have a chapter on code generation techniques , and then group all your work into one chapter . The pitfall here is to repeat the same approach over and over for different models . 3.3 Solid Evaluation : You need a solid evaluation , now that you used different techniques try to honestly evaluate them . Also , more importantly try to write a comparison between all of the techniques used and highlight each individual positive and/or negative outcomes . 3.4 Appendices : Moreover do n't just drop boilerplate code in your own chapters , try to use number of appendix for different parts of your code .
The order is determined by the standard applied by each journal to their publication . In some cases , references are listed alphabetically in the reference list . In this case , the order of appearance of the numbers in the text may seem random ( this is equivalent to your cases 2 and 3 ) . In some cases , references are listed in the order they appear in the text . This yields the first example you provide . So there is no right or wrong , there are different standards and which you need to follow is given by the journal in which you aim to publish.If you are concerned with which system to use in a report or your thesis , you should simply check with your department or organization to see which they follow . If there are no guidelines , I would suggest the system you find most commonly used in journals that lie close to your subject but you could essentially select whichever one you want as long as it is consistent and logical .
The main reason " Academics " would n't browse Kaggle to search for research problems is that most academics already have a field of interest , and are n't interested in doing data science research for the sake of figuring out some random problem defined by whoever decided to post the contest . Even if an algorithms researcher is looking to test out a particular technique that he just devised , he would probably first apply the technique to whatever dataset he was using originally before randomly testing it out on a dataset available on Kaggle . For what it 's worth , there are <URL> ; if anything , the data available in Kaggle competitions is probably poor relative to the richness in those data sets .
The risks are as you describe , although I suspect that the third item is not as serious ( unless your advisor has a formal administrative role ) . The pros are that you will have a lot more input into how the curriculum and the program is shaped . As a new department , people will try things , and not everything will work . There will be many opportunities to suggest improvements and how to do things differently . If the parent university is well known , it 's in their interest to make sure the new program succeeds , so you should also get some benefit from the level of attention paid by them . By bringing a number of faculty over , they 've expressed " buy-in " to the new institute .
Just look at past editions and see if there was indeed an extension . If they always do it , there will be another one ; if they never extend , there is no reason to believe they will start this year . If they do n't , you could always give a shot to a polite email to the organizers and explain your situation . Perhaps you can submit a tentative proposal , with the uncertain data , and submit a refined version later ( provided it does n't change much ) .
You can include any material that is published as long as you appropriately cite the material ( source ) . If you think any phrasing made by the author ( s ) is key , then you can do it as a quote where the text is reproduced in verbatim . If you do not use quotes you need to rephrase the text in your own words since it would otherwise be considered as a form of plagiarism . So , just be careful with referencing and quotes if necessary . It is better to have cited one time too many than the opposite .
I believe that career changes and " reinventions " are a regular part of modern careers in highly specialized fields . Very few people will be able to work in a single domain for their entire careers , and the ability to move laterally between " adjacent " fields will be a critical skill enabling one to have greater chances and opportunities for success . Now , that said , your chances of success in any particular job hunt will depend to some extent on how " enlightened " your future boss ( or hiring staff ) are : some will actively seek out anyone with the appropriate skill set and enthusiasm for the work , while others will be more focused on people who have the " direct " skills they need , assuming such people will require less training to be able to carry out their work . Neither of these positions is " better " ; they just happen to coexist .
I agree with @PeterJanson 's answer , but I 'd like to add my 2 cents on it : Often , I find myself " constantly " thinking about a problem when I 'm stuck or I 'm not sure how to approach it . Often , it 's because I 've got tunnel vision on the problem . That is , I 'm only thinking about it from a limited number of perspectives and ca n't think of other possible approaches to the problem . I used to spend long hours thinking about a problem ( even outside of normal work hours ) without ever really getting anywhere on it . When that happens , I find it 's good to pursue other activities that stimulate my brain to think outside of the box . That could be anything from reading semi-related research papers to playing video games to engaging in stand up comedy ! When I challenge my brain to approach other problems from new perspectives , I find those same skills help loosen my brain to engage in research in new ways as well . While I never really stop thinking about research , I find these other activities help me engage in research with fresh eyes and renewed energy . And ultimately , that has lead me to better research results and liberates me from " overthinking " the problem during my leisure time .
Personally , I would go for the colophon option . This will be a natural place to look for anyone who has ever read a book , and it does n't " interfere " with the scholarly work you are presenting . Captions of figures are also fine , but if you use the icons in more than one figure , I would definitely prefer to place the credit in the colophon . In the end it is primarily an aesthetic choice , but I agree with not putting them in the bibliography .
Excellent question ! I put it down as experience anyway , but it seems to be shrugged off more often than not , as it was considered necessary as part of a degree . When I was applying for jobs , I got a call from one where the guy went over my resume over the phone , saying things like " And you do n't have ANY industry experience ? You did n't even do an intership ? What were you doing over your summers ? " to which I could only give the flabbergasted reply " Doing ... research ... " So , yea , I 'd definitely put it down as experience . But do n't think that people will necessarily take it too seriously , sad to say .
Publishing In mathematics , most people will judge your research on its merits , not based on your credentials or affiliations . So this is not an issue , if you are able to generate significant results and write them up in a clear way . Seminars I have seen many members of the public regularly attend seminars . I 've never heard of them being kicked out . It 's not an issue . Funding The primary drawback is that you wo n't be paid for your research if you are just doing it in your spare time . Unless you are already independently wealthy , that means you will have relatively little time for research since you need a day job . It is of course possible to get grants to fund your research without being in academia ; there are a number of private entities in the US funded entirely by grants , and many of them include mathematicians . But you said spare time only . Collaboration Another drawback is that you wo n't be in close contact with other researchers by default . It would n't be impossible to establish that contact , but again you must consider whether you will have the time . And people wo n't take you seriously unless you have serious results . Not getting a PhD In mathematics , even more than in other fields , it is almost impossible to make a contribution without spending several years learning what is already known . In principle you could do that without getting a PhD , but why would you ?
end question
start question
What kind of papers do economics and finance students write ?
As a teacher of graduate-level finance classes , the main writing they are expected to perform are business reports and essays . I find that writing essays is easier for them but it is quite common for students to have challenges writing business reports ( using bullet points properly , using graphics properly , using section headings and very concise writing properly ) . As far as key skills you should be thinking about , the biggest ones are : How to construct a proper argument using academic evidence ( reasonable sources as opposed to some random person 's blog The ability to properly cite the work of others ( related to the point above ) Including counter-arguments in their work ( another extension of the first point ) If all my graduate students had these skills , my life would be much easier .
I would cite the exact version you are referring to in your work . Therefore the year should be the year of that version . You should also <URL> . This is to minimise the effect of potential changes in the cited work on your paper . Moreover , your goal is to provide the reader with a precise pointer to the cited work so that they can easily find it .
It is possible . After years away from graduate school , I am working on several papers , covering both old and new topics . However , it is very hard to do it completely alone . I have the benefit of some contacts acquired through one of the forums on StackExchange . They are willing to spend a limited amount of time ( say half an hour a month , to within two orders of magnitude ) in email correspondence with me , to receive drafts from me ( but not necessarily referee : just skim for a few minutes and find more egregious aspects which they kindly point out ) , and most importantly , endorse me for posting on ArXiv . Before the endorsement , I spent some time convincing them I would n't be a drain , that I could help them out , and that I might hope for a favor regarding endorsement , literature search , and so on . Realize that from their perspective , I could be a potential crank or downside on their career , as I have given them almost no verifiable information on what little credentials I have . I consider their involvement as a gift , and treat it with care . With their minimum involvement , I now can post results on the ArXiv , and use that as a stepping stone to loftier research goals . Since your express purpose is to produce research for others to read , you need three things : the research , the others , and a means to get the research to the others . Getting to know one or two of the " others " is key . Getting them by being helpful on this and other fora is one of the easiest routes I know for this step , but there are other methods . There may be other repositories besides the ArXiv which may help you more , but I do n't know of them ; ask the " others " for advice , and respect their time . The research part , that 's your problem , again with which " others " might be able to help .
That is a rather confusing request , actually . However , what I think the job offer is looking for in a " statement of interests " is a description of the research areas you are interested in , while the " statement of research " would be a listing of projects you 'd plan to start if you were hired . However , in many job postings , those two items would potentially be conflated into a single statement . So I 'd recommend that you contact the department . I 'd recommend doing this by phone , if possible -- that way , you do n't have to give as much identifying information .
To the host country : Positive : A host country that is able to import top talent from other countries has a greater chance of keeping them in the country after graduation . This , undoubtedly , is an effort to promote national interests in a specific field ( typically , scientific ) . Often , importing students to to do research is low cost ( in comparison to hiring full time scientists or professors ) and typically yields lots of deliverables ( e.g. research papers ) in a short time . Negative : A host country takes a lot of risks when it invests in a foreign student . There no guarantee that student even graduates , much less that he/she remains in the country after graduation , or in any way promotes the host country 's national interests . To the home country : Positive : A home country that can produce top talent gains a reputation international level for its education system ( for better or worse , regardless of whether this is actually true or not ) . Negative : A home country has the potential to lose its top talent to other countries , which is often counterproductive to its national interests ( especially scientific interests ) . In addition to the countries , i feel it is important to discuss the benefits and risks that this presents to the student as well : To the student : Positive : The student can gain a high quality education , typically with no strings attached . When they graduate , they are free to choose their destiny ( assuming that they even have the option of staying in their host country ) . Negative : The student effectively becomes low-wage , indentured migrant labor to the host institution . Students are often not promised jobs or citizenship in their host country , but are often led to believe that " it is possible if you work hard enough " . This will often lead to foreign students out performing their domestic counterparts , but sadly offers little pay , benefits , or guarantees to the foreign student . As J.J. points out , if a foreign student screws up in some way , they lose ( potentially ) their only chance of a better life outside of their home country .
As usual , rules on this sort of thing will vary from country to country and from grant agency to agency . However , all three options that you mention sound plausible to me . To go over them : Decline the grant ( ... ) Sure . Nobody can fault you for declining a grant that pays so much below standard salaries . Honestly , unless I had no other options , this is likely what I would do . I am not sure I would call it " wasteful " to decline a grant that , honestly , sounds like a terrible option to begin with . Convince the department to co-finance ( ... ) This is indeed not unheard of . Of course , whether you will be able to convince the department to do so largely depends on how much they want you to be there , what their regulations are , and if they have money to spare . I have seen this sort of co-financing mostly in cases where the department and the applicant were already in longer contact , and the public grant was mostly acquired as a way to make a move that was happening anyway cheaper for the department ( that is , it was planned that the candidate joins them anyway , but now a part is paid via an external grant ) . If the department had no intentions to hire you without the grant it becomes substantially less likely that they will be willing or able to chip in . ( ... ) obtain another grant ( ... ) This sounds like another plausible option , but check the regulations of both grant agencies . In many cases , full-time personal grants are exclusive - that is , you can have only one at a time , even if the stipend is very low . However , it may still be an option to apply not for a second personal grant , but for a regular research project that allows you to pay a salary supplement for yourself . Whether this is possible again depends on the grant agency . For instance , the SNF in Switzerland as a rule never allows to pay any money to yourself as part of a regular research project . The FWF in Austria , on the other hand , is perfectly fine with this as long as the rules of the host institution ( regarding , for instance , maximum employment ) , are followed . That being said , with this option you should probably expect to live off the 60 % stipend for a while , as the application procedure for grants tends to take a while .
It depends on where you 're presenting and who you 're presenting to . If this seminar/conference/class has a moderator who introduces you , then you do n't need to introduce yourself . Typically , this will be the case , instead of them just sending you on stage without an introduction . Either way , begin your presentation with a motivating example , which might also explain why you 're qualified to talk about the subject to your audience . " You might not think chemistry has a lot to do with squirrels , but it was recently discovered that squirrels ' pineal glands secrete a unique chemical that ... " Since you 're speaking to other students , be sure to keep the talk at a level that they can understand without a particular background in your field . And once you 've started well , do the rest of the presentation well too .
Speaking from my experience in Australia -- but I think it holds for most Commonwealth countries . A Bachelor of Arts ( or Science ) is 3 year degree , purely by coursework . Though potentially some coursework units may have large research components . You can get into it based on results from high school or some other tertiary entrance exam . The adding of Honour means the the addition of an extra year , after completion , where you do some coursework , but the focus is on research , you produce somehting which might be called a Honours thesis or similar . Depending on the university , students doing honours may count as post-graduate students , or not ( or somewhere between ) . It may make sense to think of the Honour year as being a separate qualification -- it is often possible ( if unusual ) to get into Honours at a different university to where you completed your bachelors . To get into this Honours pseduo-course , you need to have done well on your units in your bachelors . At the completion your honours results are graded and you get back a result like " 1st Class " , " 2nd Class Division A " , " Second Class Division B " ; There are more classes , but I 've not heard anyone say they have them ( presumably because it does n't sound good to say I have 3rd Class Honours , and/or they do n't stick around in academia . ) . Honours 1st class is considered roughly equivalent to having done a Masters , as far as getting in to a PhD goes . Thus the Honours pseudocourse can be used as a " shortcut " by high achieving students to get into a PhD a year earlier than they would if they did a Masters -- at the cost of a fair bit of stress usually , because a lot of Honours projects are as hard as Masters projects , and they tend to have a lot of coursework at the same time . Away from BA and BS , other undergrad degrees may have " built-in " honours . Bachelors of Engineering tend to have them ( Particularly if the B.E. would make you a accredited engineer , without having to go on and do Masters ) . In these cases Everyone does a research based Bachelors Thesis , but only those who have it graded above a certain cut off , and who meet overall coursework grade cutoffs get awarded a Honours classification , and get Honours on their certificate .
No , this is not a sign that you need a PhD . A PhD is to prove to other people that you can do novel research to a significant depth , with significant rigour . What you want is to learn some mathematical techniques . Now , the only way to do that , is to practice using those techniques . You need some exercises that will take you from where you are now , to where you want to be . You need to do those exercises , and find out which ones you got wrong , and why you got them wrong ; and then do them correctly . A PhD is n't an efficient or cost-effective way to do that . But a taught Masters degree ( e.g. in Quant finance ) might be . A free online course might be . A study-buddy who understands this stuff might be . A private tutor might be . Finding out which textbooks an appropriate Masters course uses , and working your own way through them , doing the exercises in each chapter , might be . The exact recipe will be whatever works for you . But what you need is to build up your toolkit of maths knowledge and skills , and you can only learn that by using those tools .
Is hello acceptable , or should it be more formal ( with or without academic titles ) ? This is a matter of ( sub - ) culture . Once you know what to expect , you can effectively communicate . This style is minimalist , but it tells you everything you need to know . If this bothers you , think of it this way : MK is not only saving her or his time , he or she is also saving your time . By using this style it minimizes the time you have to spent reading his message .
a student asks you why our noses run and our feet smell . My answer would be Sorry , I do n't know the answer to your question . Please ask the experts . This is the professional answer I 'll provide . Professional in the sense that I only say what I know . Be careful if you try to use some sense of humor to answer those questions . You can easily step out of boundry . In particular , the two examples you have may have something to do with health/privacy issues . If the student keeps asking this kind of questions , you 'll know he has other reasons to do so ( such as another student has running nose or came to classroom with bare foot ) . Talk to the student privately or take it to your superiors . Edit I received comments about part of my answer " Please ask the experts " . I 'll explain . I am recommending to pretend the trolling question is a serious one . I can not guess what trolling questions the OP was asked . There are many possibilities . Many trolling questions are of personal type . I give an example here . A young male handsome prof. teaches in a college . He is asked all kinds of questions every new semester . The most frequent one is " Professor , when are you going to get married ? " The prof. always replied " Sorry , I do n't know the answer . You need to ask my fiancee . " In this case , the expert is his fiancee . You can use other serious ways to answer the trolling question . The point is to be serious ( or jokingly serious if you can ) about it so that the troller wo n't be able to continue the trolling . End of edit
Take special care defining the rules , previously , and stick to them . You should have a specific list of objectives and the associated grades . This is implicit on tests , more explicit on projects . For instance , when elaborating written exams , I usually try to cover the whole syllabus ( for that part ) , with questions of different difficulties , for instance , 4 questions , one easy , two moderate , one harder . That way I can easily see who really knows the content and who is just coasting by ... If a student reaches all predefined objectives , that person earned an A. And you can easily prove it by showing that he indeed reached the objectives . It would be highly unethical not to give a deserving student an A for political concerns of some suit ...
If you believe there are significant problems with an existing manuscript , then you should present these issues to the journal in which the " offending " articles appear . The format this response should take depends upon the nature of the problem . If the issue is in fact " forging experimental results , " then the paper deserves to be retracted . However , this is a difficult allegation to prove , and you would need to have strong justification ( not evidence , per se ) backing up your allegations . However , if the issue is misinterpretations of results or previous literature , this does not quite rise to the level of " academic dishonesty " as forging results . It is not necessarily correct to have the paper retracted . Instead , you should consider writing a " comment " or " letter to the editor " or even a longer paper in response to the problems in the earlier work . Note , however , that if the paper has appeared in a reputable journal , it has gone through some sort of peer review process . As a consequence of this , it will be necessary to present a more " airtight " argument than if the paper merely appears in a repository such as <URL> . In the latter case , however , then there 's probably not much you can do beyond the aforementioned " response article , " as the paper has not been published , and thus retraction depends on the author " self-retracting " the work .
I think the most important is : Are you happy with your PhD in general ? It covers a lot of issues , but usually you do n't want to do a PhD in a place where students are unhappy and frustrated . The good thing is that if students feel really bad , they rarely hide it . The next things are related to : General contacts on the line student-advisor ( How much contact and support can you expect , both for research and administrative stuff ? ) . Funding ( Is it a problem or a non-issue , e.g. for attending a conference ? ) . Research ( What the actual research looks like ? What is the toughest part , biggest emphasis on , the most time-consuming part , etc ? ) How much time does it typically take to finish PhD ? Does it happen often that someone drops out ? Other questions will depend of things you consider important . You may expect a lot of autonomy , or a lot of guidance . You may expect a very ambitious programme , or a PhD-life balance . You may like to teach , or you may like to keep it at minimum . You may be eager to travel a lot , or prefer to stay mostly in one place . You may be more into a particular branch of science or methodology , or into another ...
As the class you TA is a programming class , I 'll suggest two options I 've used - that have worked well for me ( after Googling Stack Overflow and Github of course ) . Both these options start by asking conversational questions ( " How are you doing ? Are you enjoying class ? " ) to help relax the student - when talking about the code in the next part hesitations and mistakes can be used as an indicator for a lack of knowledge but not if it is just nerves . Option 1 : better for mid-level to advance classes : Look at their coding before hand , make sure you have some notes on their coding style , preferred methods , and level of knowledge . Then select one of their programs and ask them to write out on paper/chalkboard/whiteboard some code that solves a similar problem . Let them know that you do n't expect error-free code and that if they ca n't remember an exact method to just use something close ( depending on the class pseudo-code may be acceptable ) . The point is that a person who has done the assignment should come up with something that follows the basic logic and coding style that was seen in their assignments - if it is way off you know they likely did not write it themselves - many times leading me to start option 2 with them . Option 2 : I would honestly use 2 or 3 assignments for this method . As it is easier to see if the progression makes sense this way ( a person does not typically go from if/else to building generators and decision trees in the span of a class or two * ) and it gives more material to discuss . Starting with one of the programs , I would then ask very open-ended questions about how the student came up with their solution . You want to avoid fact questions as your trying to see the knowledge and thought process not just a memorization of quiz answers . You can ask follow-up questions here but keep them limited and still open ( " can you explain that more " , " why did you use that particular method " , " did you try anything else " ) . Your looking for a few things here : Someone who wrote the code for themselves should flow through the conversation naturally - without having to pause and think about their answers as often . The student should be able to explain each method . If it is a complex method they may get lost or make a few minor mistakes - but they should be able to explain all the concepts . The thought process they describe should make sense . This should include both the method used and the reasoning for using that method : " I decided on a for loop over the dictionary keys as that just seemed more elegant and easier to maintain then the massive if/elif/else statements " . I 'm probably missing a few here , but the point is that your experience and knowledge will usually make it pretty obvious if someone actually wrote the code or not based on just how they explain it . * I had one student who did just this . Turns out he had been programming for a few years and was picking up the language at a much faster pace .
The American Mathematical Society 's publishing arm puts out the series <URL> . A significant portion of the series ( for reasons beyond me ) are translations from Japanese language originals . Getting in touch with the editors of that series may be a good place to get started .
There are two different types of value judgement that you are discussing here -- communication goals and grading -- and I think it 's important to carefully separate them . Communication Goals : I think that it is unfair to a person who is n't a native English speaker to not expect them to aim for the same goals of clear and lucid communication . When giving feedback , do n't brush over the language and grammar errors just because a person is not a native speaker . They should have the same chance to learn and improve as anyone else . Grading : Unless the class is about English grammar , making English quality a significant part of the grade is generally a bad way to evaluate a person 's work . If the language is bad enough that it interferes with your ability to understand the class-relevant content , then yes , that 's a problem and should receive proportional demerits . If the class-relevant content is clear , however , it 's questionable to me whether any points should be taken off at all . In short : grade very generously on language issues , but point out the mistakes so the student can continue to learn and improve .
Possibly Yes If you are using an <URL> , then any unique or interesting results that you find would be candidate material for an article . If you are writing your own CFD code , then you must validate/verify it before you publish your code 's results . [ In code validation , ] The overall objective is to demonstrate the accuracy of CFD codes so that they may be used with confidence for aerodynamic simulation and that the results be considered credible for decision making in design . ... Credibility is obtained by demonstrating acceptable levels of uncertainty and error . A discussion of the uncertainties and errors in CFD simulations is provided on the page entitled Uncertainty and Error in CFD Simulations . The levels of uncertainties and errors are determined through verification assessment and validation assessment . There are several methods of validation but the two widely accepted methods are : Simulate a configuration that you can test , then test that configuration . If your code 's results matches the test results , that 's generally considered a good validation . Simulate a configuration that you can model with an already validated CFD code . If their results agree , that 's also considered a good validation . Of course you still need to perform a grid sizing analysis and other tests to ensure/prove you 're using your code correctly .
How good is your data ? If you truly have amazing unpublished data that could readily form the basis for multiple top tier publications , then with some persistence you should be able to find academics who are interested in writing publications based on that data . However , are you able to truly judge the suitability of your data for academic publications ? In general , if you are not in academia , you are likely to have a poor to modest understanding of what makes a great dataset . For example , I sometimes work with industry datasets that look at the characteristics of workers ( traits , job performance and so on ) . There are all sorts of academic reasons why a given dataset ( that the consultant may think is interesting ) will not yield a good publication : e.g. , the sample size is too small ; there were issues with data collection ; the measures used are insufficiently reliable or valid ; the measures used do not map onto the theoretical constructs in the literature ; the questions that can answered by the dataset have been examined many times already in the literature ; the meta data is incomplete . Even if you have a dataset that could be used for a publication , there is still the issue of whether the dataset is good enough to persuade an academic to work on it . In general , more established academics have a large collection of studies and datasets sitting around waiting to be potentially written up . In this case , the academic is likely to strategically prioritise their publications in terms of some sort of effort-reward trade-off . So , your dataset needs to not only be publishable but sufficiently aligned and interesting to an academic to persuade them to work on it . Thus , my advice would be to start to connect with a few academics in order to assess how suitable the datasets are for publication . How to find a suitable academic ? There are many strategies for finding a academic who might be interested in analysing your data for publication . Ideally , you 'd have a sense of the kinds of publications that could be obtained from the data , and therefore which academics are working on these topics . A targeted email to some of these people explaining the data you have and your interests in sharing for publication should help to start a conversation . You can then have skype chat or face to face chats ( with people in your city ) . If you 're lucky you might have existing social networks with existing academics ( e.g. , where you did your studies , or in your town ) . As you interact with these academics , you can get a better understanding of whether the data is suitable for publication . Also , if you have good data , but the first few academics are not interested in it , such academics may be able to refer you to other academics who are interested . You also mention that you want " experienced researchers " to write the papers . In this regard , there is a trade-off . More high-profile researchers are more capable of getting quality work published . However , they also have many more opportunities . So there is a trade-off . For example , early career researchers may be more interested in your data , if they 've had less time to obtain a broad range of research options . Your dataset might also be useful to form part of a PhD project . How to negotiate co-authorship ? Based on respected criteria for co-authorship ( E.g. , <URL> ) , merely providing data is not sufficient to warrant co-authorship . You generally need to contribute to some degree to the writing and conception of the paper . That said , if you make co-authorship a condition of sharing your data , then academics are free to take or leave your proposal . If collecting the data in itself involved some degree of academic contribution and you also agree to contribute to the writing and analysis process ( even if not leading ) , then such a proposal is likely to be more palatable to academics .
<URL> might help or <URL> Here is the crux of the information : The period of stay is quoted as 3 years/1 year with the following documents needed : This visa applied for Long-term stay for the following occupations : Working visa : professor , artist , religious activities , journalist , investor/business manager , legal/accounting services , medical services , researcher , instructor , engineer , specialist in humanities/International Services The algorithm for obtaining the visa is given on <URL> .
end question
start question
Why might a journal editor reject a submission , but suggest submission to a sister journal ?
That 's pretty common , a lot of journals offer to move your submission to other journals of the same publishers . Why do they do it ? Well , if they think that publication is worth anything ( will get cited ... ) they can indirectly make money with that , so the publisher wants to have it . Now why would n't they just accept it then ? There are two reasons . One would be it 's not good enough for that journal but it 's good enough for another , which does n't seem to be the case here . The second one would be that it does n't fit into that journal for whatever reason ( likely here ) . In both cases they will offer you the possibility of that other journal . For Wiley an example would be Angewandte Chemie and Chemistry - A European Journal . The latter is somehow a collecting tank for rejected publications in Angewandte Chemie and it 's also the journal for Full Papers , as Angewandte Chemie does only accept Communications . ( And well , all the editors there are in a certain field of chemistry , so nowadays submissions which were in scope some years ago now get rejected with " not in scope " ... )
If you know your field , it is easy to know how reputable some journal is . You find papers in it by the best people in your field publishing the most important results there you are already familiar with . On the other hand if you do not know your field yet , I would advise you to get to know it at the glance at least first . Familiarise yourself with the most important and fundamental results and findings and the most influential authors . You should identify these authors quickly by seeing them in many various papers cited again and again by different researchers . Then look where these authors published the papers to find out what journals are likely to be more reliable than others . Moreover , if you know your field , you should be able to discern a value and validity of a paper quickly from the abstract .
Ca n't you look at author biographies from other papers in that journal ?
There are sometimes " remark " blocks that some authors use for discussing aspects that are of substantial interest to some readers but do not strictly belong to the core of the story that you are telling . If you are preparing your document with LaTeX , then such text blocks are called " environments " . An example is given in the Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science <URL> , page 4 at the bottom .
There are several possibilities here , although generally they all have the same solution . The English is poor or incorrect and the company did not check it well It is possible that the company that checked your article did a bad job . This happens . Maybe the service did not have a native English speaker check your article . Maybe they had a bad day . Maybe they do n't provide good service , and you just got lucky on previous times . It 's hard to say . The English is grammatical , but not idiomatic It is possible that the company that checked your article fixed all the grammatical mistakes , but that there are still some phrasings which are not idiomatic or particularly natural . This is essentially a function of how detailed the corrections were . For example , here is the first paragraph of your post : Recently I had submitted a Manuscript to an International Journal . Though it is accepted as a Minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . First reviewer has commented that the Paper is well written , still needs some English improvements . Second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is required . There are some small grammatical errors , and I can correct them as follows ( in bold ) : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a minor revision , but I am worried about the reviewer 's comment . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . While this paragraph is now grammatically correct , it still does not feel like it was written by a native speaker , and the way some words are used is a little odd . ( E.g. using though and but in the second sentence ; you really only need one of them . ) So , a more thorough checking would suggest edits like the following : Recently I had submitted a manuscript to an international journal . Though it is was accepted as a Minor revision pending minor revisions , but I am worried about the reviewers 's comments . The first reviewer has commented that the paper is well written , but still needs some English improvements . The second reviewer has also commented that English improvements is are required . The checking service could have done the first step ( making it grammatically correct ) without following through on the second step ( making it idiomatic ) . The second step is much harder , of course , as it requires knowledge of what style is appropriate for your field ( and for the journal you are writing for ) , and , to some extent , it requires technical knowledge of whatever you 're writing about . The English is fine , the reviewer is just being picky Academic articles are complex and often involve detailed theoretical or technical discussion . At times , they can be hard to follow . Sometimes this complexity is interpreted as poor language skills , and reviewers complain . I know more than one native English speaker who has received reviews asking them to check their article with a native speaker . In essence , this criticism relates to how the content is presented rather than linguistic concerns like grammaticality or phrasing . The solution It is not easily possible for you to determine right now which of the above scenarios has happened . However , a big help would be for you to show the manuscript to a trusted colleague who is a native speaker of English , and ask them how it reads . If the English is really atrocious , then you know you have a problem with the checking service ; if there are some unusual phrases but it 's otherwise fine , then you know the problem is that it 's occasionally un-idiomatic ; and if there are no obvious problems , then it 's probably just an issue of reviewer interpretation . The other step you should take is to re-read your manuscript and attempt to make complex exposition more clear . ( This is a step I advise everyone to do at basically every stage of the writing process ... ) This will help your article in the case that the English was fine but the reviewer was just confused . Finally , breathe and relax . Your article was accepted , congratulations ! Clearly the reviewers and the editor thought that the scientific content was sufficient to merit publication .
Unless you are banned by a society and forbidden to publish in their journals for some reason ( e.g. plagiarism ) , there are fences between two different journal submission systems . And no rule known to me . However , two aspects require caution : close journals , especially with the same publisher , may have the same editors , area editors , etc. . It is interesting to check the editor list and check for an overlap since reviewers are hard to find , I suspect that a publisher may have a database of all its parts reviewers ( whatever the journal ) . So with a similar paper , the same keywords , you might as well end up with the same reviewer . Who might have mixed feelings about reviewing " the same paper " twice . From what I understand from your question , your paper might have been mildly reviewed , possibility checked by an editor , who made the decision himself . So the second point might be as less concern .
In my area ( CS ) , submitting a paper with no scientific affiliation is possible and happens quite regularly . Many conferences nowadays use double-blind review , were names and affiliation of the authors are not known to the reviewers , so it should matter even less if you do not have the " right " affiliation .
The best way to do it , in my experience , is to write . Every single journal I 've been asked to review things for ( with the exception of one done as a favor ) was born of a request by an editor to review a paper in an area where I might be considered an " expert " - because I had a publication , and a decently received one , in that topic area . Once you get an invitation or two , accept them and as importantly make your reviews useful and timely . Establishing yourself in an editor 's mind as someone who gets their reviews back , and gets them back on time ( or communicates when they are n't able to do that ) ca n't do anything but help in ensuring that you 'll get similar requests in the future .
Feel free to edit this answer to improve it , in particular to add other names you know to be used for the individual steps or to extend the maximum typical durations from your experience . The source for the diagram can be found <URL> . Overview <URL> Initial Check This step is usually performed by the non-scientific staff of the journal . It may include for example : Checking for broken files . Checking compliance with length requirements , if any . Checking central formatting requirements , e.g. , line numbers , if required by the journal . A plagiarism check . Excluding manuscripts of very low quality , such as automatic translations . Also known as : technical check , initial QC ( AIP ) , admin checklist ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays . Editor assignment or invitation Based on the topic of the manuscript and suggestions by the authors , an editor is assigned to handle the manuscript . Depending on the journal , the assignment may be done by technical staff , the journal 's chief editor , or automatic by submission category or author suggestion . With some journals , editors are invited and not assigned . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , editor assigned ( Editorial Manager , AIP ) , AE assignment ( IEEE ) Typical duration : A few workdays to several weeks . Editorial assessment The editors decide whether the paper should enter the review process or should be rejected directly , e.g. , because it does not fit the journal 's scope or requirements on importance or quality . A rejection at this stage is called desk reject . The paper may also be returned to the authors for reasons other than rejection . With revised manuscripts , the editors assess whether the existing reviews have been addressed adequately . Also known as : with editors ( APS ) , waiting for potential reviewer assignment ( AIP ) , under review ( <URL> ) Typical duration : This strongly depends on the journal : With some journals , it is less than a week ; with others it may take a month , in particular if several people are involved in the decision or the initial quality hurdle is high . Peer review The editor selects a number of potential referees to review the manuscript . Should a referee decline to review or not perform the review in a certain time ( as given by the editor or journal ) , the editor usually has to select a new referee . The main exception to this is if the other referees already provided sufficient reviews at this point . With revised manuscripts , usually the reviewers from the previous round are selected . The editor may also decide that certain or all reviewers need not see the manuscript again , as their comments have been adequately addressed . Also known as : with reviewers , with referees , under review , awaiting referee assignment , awaiting referee reports , awaiting reviewer scores ( <URL> ) , reviewers assigned The initial selection of referees is usually comprised in the previous step . Some editorial systems give the status as with editors ( or similar ) if a new referee needs to be assigned and no other referee is currently assigned . Typical duration : This strongly depends on the field and journal . It typically ranges <URL> , but in some cases ( particularly for highly theoretical work where intense proof-checking is expected ) , it may be as long as one to two years . Moreover , the key factors for the duration of an individual peer-review process are how soon the reviewers find time to perform the review and how many reviewers decline or fail to review the manuscript . Thus , even for a given journal , there is a strong variation of review durations . Some journals give their statistics on this time ( or a related one ) on their webpage . Editorial decision Based on the reviews , the editors decide whether : The manuscript shall be rejected . The manuscript needs to be revised by the authors before it can possibly be accepted . If the authors submit a revised manuscript , the workflow is mostly the same as for the initial submission . The manuscript shall be accepted as it is . A decision requires further reviews . Also known as with editors ( APS ) , review completed , required reviews completed ( <URL> ) , <URL> , awaiting EiC decision ( IEEE ) , Editor Decision Started ( AIP ) Typical duration : A few workdays to a week . This may take longer with some journals , in particular if several people are involved in the decision . Copy editing and typesetting The article is copy-edited and typeset by the publisher . Occasionally , requests to the authors may occur at this stage , e.g. , due to low-quality figures . For some journals , a pre-copy-editing version of the manuscript will be put online at this point under a category like Just Accepted , with a warning that the current version has not yet been copy-edited and may change further before publication . Also known as : in production , in press Typical duration : This mostly depends on the publisher 's backlog . Usually between a few workdays to over a year , roughly correlated with the length of the publication delay ( see below ) . Final
An editor once " requested " that I submit a " tracked changes " or latexdiff version of my resubmission if I wanted him to deal with it in a timely fashion . Since then , my strategy has been to submit : revised manuscript ( no annotation ) ; latexdiff of revisions against version submitted last time , to highlight every last comma changed ; cover letter , describing all scientific changes plus any major textual changes ( " we substantially rewrote the methods section in an attempt to improve its clarity " ) . I refer the editor to the diff for minor textual corrections . No editor has complained yet ... ;)
I 'd recommend waiting a week or two to see whether you get a response to your withdrawal . At this stage it ca n't be urgent to resubmit immediately , and having their reply would guarantee that they are aware that you have withdrawn the paper . ( By contrast , I do n't think an e-mail read receipt means much . For all you know , an administrative assistant opened the e-mail and then mistakenly deleted it without realizing what it said . ) I would n't go so far as to say you are required to wait for a response , but better safe than sorry . I think you 've got a much bigger issue to worry about , though , and that 's why you withdrew the paper after acceptance . At least in mathematics , withdrawing an accepted paper is extremely unusual . To a first approximation , it typically means there 's something seriously wrong with either the paper or the journal . You can certainly do it , but given the effort that has gone into handling and refereeing the paper , you will cause offense if you do n't have a very good reason . If you inadvertently submitted the paper to a junk or predatory journal , then you do n't need to worry about causing offense . ( Offending the editors of predatory journals is not a bad thing . ) In that case , withdrawing the paper is certainly the right decision . If you dreadfully screwed up in your choice of journal , for example by submitting a brilliant breakthrough to a respectable but not impressive journal without realizing how good the paper was , then you should apologize profusely for wasting everyone 's time . Hopefully they 'll understand that it was a genuine mistake on your part , and they 'll sympathize with the awkward position you are in and give their blessing to resubmitting elsewhere . If the paper is seriously flawed , then that 's a respectable reason to withdraw it . You might look bad for having submitted it , but then again , the referee did n't find the mistake either . But this is n't a compelling reason to submit elsewhere soon : if you do n't check whether the original journal is willing to publish the revised paper , then it looks like the changes were just an excuse to withdraw the paper . Under normal circumstances , it will cause offense if people think you are withdrawing an accepted paper just to try your luck at a more prestigious journal . In particular , this is a dangerous impression to leave if you ever hope to submit to this journal again . As an editor , I would certainly not be happy to see a new submission from an author who had previously withdrawn an accepted paper without a compelling excuse . All this gives you another reason to move slowly and wait for a reply . If you have a good reason for withdrawal , then it 's worth making sure you have communicated it clearly . In any case , you are doing something rather unusual and serious , and it 's best not to give the impression you are treating it lightly or casually .
The nature may vary from conference to conference , but in my experience a Ph.D. forum is typically an event intended to help graduate students learn how to present and how to shape their papers to fit the expectations of the field . It is often a place for students to start getting advice and feedback on their work from the larger community , and for the larger community ( who may be interested in hiring the student in the future ) to start getting to know them . As such , it is typically very lightly reviewed and only sort-of counts as publication . As such , it is not worth very much on your resume ( the value is in the networking and feedback ) , but it will not usually prevent you from later publishing a full version of the same work elsewhere .
Recently , I have had a very similar situation occur . The original paper discussed and explained the theoretical and practical aspects of a scientific technique that we adapted ; the second discussed and explained the programming automation of the technique . My advisor and co-author advised me at the time that each paper has got to be unique , taking the lead from the previous one and adding new information , techniques etc. . The journal that I published in are quite happy to take on a follow up article , just as long as it is sufficiently unique . So , in answer to your questions - it would most likely be a new paper for publication , make reference to the previous one , but place the emphasis on the new developments .
Acknowledgements are mostly yours to do with as you please -- in my experience in computer science , at least , there are few hard and fast rules . For my own part , I typically keep my acknowledgements relatively spare , reserving them for people who made significant and meaningful contributions , but who did not rise to the level of authorship . As such , I tend to not acknowledge anonymous reviewers , people who gave feedback that did n't result in large changes in the manuscript , etc. . You should feel free to be more liberal in your acknowledgements if you choose , however -- the only real limitation is if either a ) your manuscript may have length limitations or b ) you do something that can be taken as silly ( which can be <URL> but generally not so much in a peer-reviewed manuscript ) . It is pretty much always the case , however , that acknowledgements say what a person is being acknowledged for . If you say that , then people will know how to calibrate the contribution . If you have a hard time figuring out what to write , that may be a sign that the person did n't do enough to be acknowledged .
To answer the ( <URL> of the ) question in the title : Are scientific articles of public domain ? the answer is absolutely not , unless the relevant copyright holders declared it so or that its copyright has expired . Note that public domain is emphatically different from open access . To answer the question in the body : Is it legal for the university/organization to host a copy of an article , if this has been published on a conference or journal with paid access ? Does it matter if the authors of the article belong to that university/organization ? the answer is it depends . What does it depend on ? Very simply , the publication agreement or the copyright transfer agreement or the licensing agreement signed by the author when the article has been accepted for publishing . For example : Here 's <URL> Here 's <URL> <URL> for their journals . As David Ketcheson points out below , a great resource for checking the self-archiving and open access policies of is <URL> .
Submitting an academic paper for publication ( and potentially getting it accepted ) does not require any qualifications whatsoever . You do n't need a PhD ; you do n't even need to have gone to college . There are no educational , employment , or membership requirements at all . That 's not to say it 's easy to get a paper accepted with no formal training in the field . Learning how to write a compelling paper is much easier if you have a mentor to offer guidance . However , if you can figure out how to do it without a PhD , then your lack of a PhD will not be held against you .
Why do n't you write the corresponding author and ask them what the sample size was . You can always cite the sample size , if you decide to use the study , as a personal communication .
Based upon my own experience as reviewer ( i.e. , a sample of n = 1 ) , yes . Here is my experience : I review for several different different journals , but have reviewed extensively for one journal . This journal has acknowledged me as an Exceptional Reviewer and I have been asked to apply to be part of the Editorial Board . For this journal , the editors vote on membership to the editorial board . Additionally , editors are usually selected from the board . The answer to your question depends upon your subfield and the journal for which you are reviewing ( e.g. , is this a commercial journal or a society journal ; also what is the journal 's organizationally structure and how are editors select ? ) . I would suggest focusing your reviews on this journal ( i.e. , decline reviews from other journals and accept reviews from this journal if you are limited for time ) and possibly dropping the Editor-In-Chief ( or head editor ) an email expressing interest in joining the editorial board . If it is a societal journal ( i.e. , published by a scientific society ) , I would also make sure my membership was current and possibly start raising my profile in that society ( e.g. , serving on committees , networking at their meetings , etc ) .
You are correct in that the total time will first of all vary between journals and fields but also slightly over time . I am chief editor of an international journal in the environmental sciences . The time each reviewing editor spends on a paper with our journal can be broken down as follows : Must scan the paper upon receiving it for assigning reviewers ( probably takes an hour , maybe less ) Assign reviewers ( does not take much time but can be drawn out over time when reviewers decline to review ) Read reviews carefully and provide authors with guidelines on what to focus on ( probably takes a few hours ) Carefully check the revisions and decide on the faith of the paper ( takes a couple of hours at least depending on extent of revisions ) If the paper goes to major revisions you need to go through steps 2-4 again If the paper is accepted then spend maybe 15 minutes to half an hour formulating a suggestion for final decision ( depends on what might need to be written ) This can be summed up for one paper as probably more than half a day . Then the question is how many papers you are requested to handle per month/year etc. . You can then easily multiply by the number of papers to get a reasonable idea of the total time you will need to spend . To add to this , you will need to act whenever a paper arrives , so you are expected to be more or less on call all year . Most journals have systems for indicating when editors are away but that only works for assigning new papers ; if you have started the process you will have to see it through ... and keep chasing late reviews and delayed revisions . So although I can not give you an idea of workload , you have some tools to figure out what will be involved . Knowing the number of papers you are expected to handle is the most important statistic to figure out . Then depending on your field , you may have a sense of whether my estimates for scanning and reading materials are reasonable . I am sure they will vary depending on discipline .
Letters are interesting to write because they still have to be " complete " but the definition of " complete " is different ( and you often ca n't rely on throwing citations at the problem because there may be a limit there too ) . You need someone else to read it . Another PhD student in the group ? A postdoc ? They should read it as a reviewer rather than as a coauthor and point out any glaring omissions . You would of course return the favour at some point .
end question
start question
Why is Howard University still predominantly black ?
I just do n't think HBCUs are all that unusual in terms of having a student body that 's not a random demographic sample of the United States . Brandeis has a higher than average percentage of Jewish students , Cardiff has a higher than average percentage of Welsh students , and Duke has a higher percentage of southern students . Students pick schools in part by cultural and social match , and ethnicity plays a role there . Furthermore , people go to schools that their family members and friends went to , and a black kid is more likely to have grown up hearing " keep up the good work and you 'll get into Howard/Morehouse/Spelman " from their alumni parents and teachers while a white kid 's role models are less likely to be Howard alums . Finally , demographic shifts happen slowly : Sarah Lawrence has been coed since 1968 and it 's still 3/4s female .
This is an interesting question -- and yet when you think about it , it 's horrifying that we 'd have to consider even for an instant the propriety and legality of keeping our own annotated research materials . But , to provide a proper answer : In principle , this may depend on the terms of the license under which you downloaded these papers . In practice , you are very likely to be in the right , both legally and morally . In general , I believe that the licenses allow you to reproduce ( i.e. , print or save ) the document for research purposes -- without specifying a time limit or maximum duration of their subsequent use . See e.g. <URL> . If you are asking about the ethical/moral propriety of what you are doing , you are clearly in the right to retain your collection of papers and notes on those papers . In fact , you may even have an ethical obligation to retain those materials if the notes therein are necessary to reproduce any of your present work . As an analogy , think about what I did many years ago when moving from one university to another . I had an extensive paper collection of reprints , many photocopied from my institution 's library and many extensively annotated . I boxed all of these up and brought them with me . No one in their right mind -- nor even most copyright lawyers , I 'd imagine -- would have had me go through those files and discard the articles not in volumes held by my new institution . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice . It does seem to be good common sense , though , and sometimes that can be worth at least as much as anything a lawyer would tell you .
I am assuming you are an undergraduate ; correct me if I 'm wrong and I 'll amend my answer . It has been my experience that summer internships at a university that you do n't attend are very rare . My advisor explicitly ignored all cold emails from students asking if they could work with her during the summer ( even if they were not asking to be paid ) . Logistically , without being enrolled in the school , things like getting access to school servers , badgeing/keys for offices , etc. is just that much more difficult , and professors just do n't have the time to vet students from external schools , nor much of an incentive to do so . With that caveat : Ask home university/department/professor for contacts and use that connection ? Absolutely , but it is going to take more than getting contacts to get a summer internship . Unless your professor reaches out to those contacts himself/herself , you 're probably not going to get much traction . What if I have no prior research experience and professors only know me from classes ? Then you are less likely to entice them to help you . You 're better off trying to work with those professors at your own university instead of trying to use them to work somewhere else . Google and send CV + Statement to ( many ) professors via email and hope for the best Please do n't bother them -- they get too much spam to begin with . You 'll not only waste your time , but theirs as well . Google for positions that are explicitly offered for 8-10 week summer internships This is the best option , but I suggest not limiting yourself to universities and to branch out to look for internship experience in industry ( if this is such a thing in your field ) . For one , there are probably more opportunities , and secondly , they are generally more structured and you might get more out of the experience . Incidentally , many professors use the summer months for work-related travel and to take vacation . This makes it even more unlikely that you will find a position , as the number of professors around during the summer is minimal . On the other hand , if you happen to find a professor that will assign you to one of his/her graduate students , you could potentially still work in the lab under the grad student tutelage instead of directly for the professor ( and , indeed , this is probably what will happen in any lab -- as an undergraduate you will probably work more for the graduate students than for the professor , although this obviously varies by school and professor ) .
Professionally , they should understand , if explained to them in a polite and respectful way . After all it is your life , and they need to respect your decision . Yes , it is disappointing , but it should not burn bridges - good people are not easy to find and they should be happy to keep in touch ; who knows what the future brings . However , if they were so disappointed that they would be indeed offended by your decision , then it is likely that there are other problems lying in wait for you at that group , anyway .
The employing professor will not have access to this data . You can omit anything in this form . The data from this form goes to HR and is aggregated there so they can prove to auditing bodies that the staff distribution is not skewed ( i.e. that they are not discriminating on basis of whatever )
Many master 's degrees have other components besides required coursework , e.g. " comprehensive " exams , projects , a thesis . Certainly to get a master 's degree you need to fulfill all the requirements . Someone who is taking master 's level courses piecemeal should check to see whether and in what way they can fulfill these additional requirements . This may depend on the details of the enrollment . However , in most cases that I know about , the department and the faculty wo n't care much about the administrative fine print , so long as the student is doing well in the courses and shows herself capable of doing whatever extra work is required . If you do fulfill all the requirements of a master 's degree , then you get a master 's degree . Whether you were employed by the university at the time has nothing to do with the degree and probably would not show up on the transcript . By the way , in many academic fields most or all graduate students are employed by the university in one manner or another -- e.g. as a PhD student , I taught every other semester , and every semester that I was teaching I received a separate ID card listing me as an officer of the university . I had quite a few of these cards by the time I graduated . Added : In order to get a degree , you need to be enrolled in the program . There is such a thing as a " non-degree student " ; you might want to look that up . What I and Bill Barth are saying is that , in practice , a non-degree student who is doing well in the coursework and shows herself able to complete all the requirements of the degree has a good shot at getting enrolled in the degree program .
Conferences tend to take place indoors in dimly-lit rooms . Dimly-lit rooms are a good place to fall asleep . Using a white background helps avoid this . Also , dark text/lines on a white background are easier to read ( I 've seen more than one study showing this ) . If you are going to be showing a lot of astronomy or fluorescence biology images , where the image is mostly black with some interesting colorful things in it , you probably want a black or dark background for at least those slides ; at some point you should just switch over . Also , if it is essential to understanding for the viewer to discriminate many shades of color , it 's easier with a black background because you can use a wide variety of discriminable pastel colors that would be washed out to invisibility on a white background . You ca n't even use saturated yellow or cyan on a white background and expect it to be seen . But for most scientific presentations there are good reasons for a light colored background .
Yes , individual salary information at Swedish universities fall under " offentlighetsprincipen " ( the principle of public access to official records ) , unless they are explicitly classified , which would be very rare . ( See for example <URL> from Stockholm university describing how " offentlighetsprincipen " applies to university matters . ) The easiest way to obtain them is probably to contact the HR department ( personalavdelning ) at the university/faculty in question .
No . Many of the top universities are tourist attractions and it is not uncommon to see tourists wandering around campus taking photos and eventually buying paraphernalia . While in the US it is not uncommon to see students wearing standard school t-shirts and sweatshirts , in the UK , students generally do not wear clothes that are available in the bookstore . Rather , they wear clothes made for particular clubs that they are involved in .
I do not see that sharing your knowledge would in any way be a problem per se . What could become a problem is if you also share copyright-protected materials . It is virtually impossible to list what might or might not be such materials but to take other persons presentations , images , data and then sharing it would be clearly illegal ( and unethical ) unless they are provided with a " license " stating they are free . If you take the knowledge you gather and then put it together somehow ( including making your own presentations on your own material ) , it should not be such a problem . In any circumstance where you want to use other peoples materials , it is always best to ask for permission . Not only does it save you possible future problems , you may find friends in the process . Watch out for materials published by commercial interests and use open source material ( but do give credit to those who made it - attribution is required by licenses like <URL> and it is also a nice gesture to acknowledge the work and time by the original authors ) . Much material is given out for public ( but not commercial ) use . A final advise , attach an open source license to your materials . I am not fully aware what licenses may apply but am sure many has good suggestions for you ( check Academia.sx or ask another question on that ) . So to sum up . I think it is a nice idea and perfectly fine , but be aware that you must be 100 % sure you do not publish materials so that you break copyrights or abuse licenses ( protect the open source practises ) .
No , you should not put the university logo in the letter . You are not representing your university in an official capacity in a statement of purpose , and therefore using the university 's logo would be inappropriate , as you would be suggesting an official imprimatur for your work .
<URL> is an example of an arXiv paper that has been withdrawn . You can see that if someone visits the non-version-specific URL , <URL> , they will see a notice that the article is withdrawn . There is still a link to the previous version ( s ) , which they can click on to see the original paper : <URL> If someone clicks on the link to the first version , or visits the version-specific URL , <URL> , they will see the original paper without any withdrawal notice . ( You can see other examples of withdrawn arXiv papers with <URL> ) .
This is the response I received from my graduate program 's coordinator : It just means physically being here , so does n't have to be on-campus housing .
In my university back in Mexico , they had something similar , if professors want to get ahead ( income , professional , etc ) they had to an additional degree ( Masters , PhD ) I think that if you do not have the motivation , you 'll have a lot of problems , doing a PhD is already a taxing endeavor , in the sense that many times you 'll start wondering wether this was a good idea or not . As in many things in life , if you do this because you are made to ( like students that go to college because their parents want to ) you 'll have lots of resentment . However , not all is lost , you can try looking for something you are really passionate about , and then try to do a PhD on that .
My Masters project ( synthetic chemistry ) did n't actually generate results other than failure and black goop ( so nothing novel ! ) until the last two weeks of time I had in the lab , and even then , there was insufficient purity and quantity of my compound to do a complete ' standard ' panel of analysis . It was the 4th year of an integrated BSc/Msci course , was graded including a viva and I achieved a mid 2.1 . The main purpose of a research Masters , at least in chemistry , is to accustom you to ' proper ' research methods , while allowing you to pursue something novel and to demonstrate your ability to conduct research to a sufficient standard . In my cohort there was typically a tradeoff between novelty of project and quality of results , where one forgave the lack of the other . As long as your thesis is written with an awareness of its deficits ( aims far loftier/broader than the time/resources available sounds like a good start ! ) and you write good further work and conclusion sections where you tie this awareness in , making sensible conclusions and observations on the few cases you have achieved , I think it is definitely possible to write a good one ! As Paul indicated above , you should discuss these concerns with your supervisor and possibly head of class ( or equivalent ) . I am sure they will have dealt with someone with your concerns and circumstances before .
This answer is about the US only . United States copyright law has a concept called " <URL> . " The copyright of a work for hire belongs to the employer , if the work fits in one of the following categories : 1 ) a work prepared by an employee within the scope of his or her employment ; or ( 2 ) a work specially ordered or commissioned for use as a contribution to a collective work , as a part of a motion picture or other audiovisual work , as a translation , as a supplementary work , as a compilation , as an instructional text , as a test , as answer material for a test , or as an atlas , if the parties expressly agree in a written instrument signed by them that the work shall be considered a work made for hire . Materials such as lecture notes or scholarly papers have traditionally never been considered works for hire . This is sometimes referred to as the " <URL> . " For some history and explanation , see <URL> . There are a couple of legal precedents described in the same AAUP article , Weinstein v. University of Illinois and Hays v. Sony Corp. . These court decisions say that materials like scholarly papers are not a " requirement or duty " of the job , and that a school does n't " supervise its faculty " in writing this kind of thing . A later Supreme Court ruling in 1989 , <URL> , was not specifically about academic work , but is important because it changed the criteria that had been assumed in Weinstein . The 2006 case <URL> reaffirmed the teacher exception , but may have had a negative effect on teachers ' rights because it held that fair use applied to lectures . The AAUP article also describes some good reasons why the school probably does n't even want ownership of the copyright . It is not well positioned to benefit from ownership , and ownership could entangle it in legal disputes . Many schools have policies in which they attempt to lay out what they consider to be a work for hire . These policies have little legal force , because under US law , work for hire is defined by the law . A work can not be made into a work for hire by the unilateral declaration of an employer that it is so , and even an agreement between the employer and employee may have no legal effect . Usually a school 's policies simply reads like a summary of the law and historical practices . All of this was basically settled law for many decades , until distance education became a big thing . At that point , many schools started to envision an online course as a type of commodity that they could own and exploit , and they started to get more aggressive about trying to call online course materials works for hire . But in general , any lectures , slides , textbooks , or scholarly articles you write belong to you and not your school , and this is true regardless of whether the school posts a policy on its web site claiming otherwise , and even regardless of whether they get you to sign a contract stating otherwise . You are on the strongest ground if your work is not written to the school 's specification and if the school never had any say over whether the result was OK . Putting your byline or a copyright message on materials such as lecture slides has no real effect on anything . You own the copyright automatically as soon as an original , copyright-eligible work is written down , assuming it 's not a work for hire . By modern copyright law , the only real purpose of a copyright notice is that if you have to sue an infringer , it makes it harder for them to make the defense that they did n't know the work was copyrighted -- but that 's a flimsy defense in any case , since copyright is automatic these days . If you want to prevent the university from using your materials under the fair use exception to copyright , an <URL> of Bosch v Ball-Kell gives the following guidance : This case also suggests that publishing teaching materials , documented plans to use them in research or a textbook , or other demonstration of market value can give faculty greater control of their teaching materials if a dispute arises over them .
This question seems to be based on a misconception , namely that professors start companies substantially less frequently than they could or should . The vast majority of professors , even in fairly applied areas like computer science ( compared with literature , say ) , are simply not in a position to start companies based on their research . You need a viable business plan , and they do n't grow on trees . Specifically , even really profound research with many practical applications usually just does n't have obvious commercial potential as a stand-alone business , since it wo n't be clear how to monetize it . Of course , there are exceptions , and plenty of important businesses were started by faculty , but only a small fraction of professors could do this successfully . Here 's another way of looking at it . There 's no reason why a business based on a professor 's research needs to be founded by the professor . If you see someone with great ideas , you can buy the rights to the ideas and found your own company . If professors were missing a lot of wonderful opportunities to found companies , then you 'd expect entrepreneurs to step in and do it , but that does n't happen very often either . Ultimately , this is why we have academic research . The stuff that leads to obvious business plans could easily be funded by industry . By contrast , one of the reasons why academia includes research is to make sure work that ca n't easily be sold does n't get neglected .
You are right that professors in various administrative positions typically have a reduced teaching load . However , this is hard to quantify and depends mostly on the institution 's policy and maybe even the specific agreement ( or contract ) negotiated . The full range is possible : from no reduction in teaching load ( position with little time requirement ) to full " exemption " from teaching ( e.g. , dean or university president ) .
I would be truly shocked if any hiring committee cared at all about whether you taught calculus versus pre-calculus . Doing well at either would show that you can adequately handle teaching service classes .
In my experience in the US , I have never seen any sort of decision letter for an application ( whether for Ph.D. or any position ) that gives reasons for the decision . It may be different in other countries , but in the US at least , there are many good reasons to never give such information formally . The actual decision-making process is never as clean and clear-cut as anybody wants it to be , and with the limited information available in applications and even interviews , there are going to be cases where people make mistakes or make good decisions for unclear or hard to state reasons . Lots of good people may get turned down for reasons having nothing to do with them , such as just having too many good candidates in the same area . If an institution gives real reasons in an official statement ( as opposed to something meaningless and bland like " not an appropriate fit at this time " ) , then it is opening up the door for all sorts of potential problems and disputes , not to mention potential legal liability if something could be construed as relating to a protected category such as gender , age , religion , or ethnicity . They also have to worry about seriously unbalanced people who may take it as a personal insult and begin some sort of stalking or harassment campaign ( it happens ! ) . Not giving reasons may feel unsatisfying and cowardly , but it is an easy and safe path for an institution , and as such is generally official policy . Now , if you have an informal trusted relationship with somebody who was involved in the decision process , then it is sometimes possible to get a strictly unofficial take on what may have happened . You might learn things you did n't want to know about how sausage is made , however .
end question
