start question
How to best store cocoa powder ?
Store cocoa powder in a dark , cool , dry place , sealed against vermin . Dark and cool both slow the process by which volatiles ( i.e. , flavor ) degrade . That said , do n't keep it in the fridge or freezer unless sealed airtight , because both types of chill-chests are relatively humid environments . Humidity promotes mold , even on cocoa . By the way , for future reference : When buying cocoa powder , note the manufacturer 's suggested use-by date . Cocoa powder should last about three years , properly stored . If the use-by date is much less than that , look for another container .
The resource we generally use here on Seasoned Advice is <URL> . Feel free to edit this answer to include other resources .
Your main sources of flavour in any Chinese-style noodle dish will be : Garlic Ginger Chilli Spring Onion/Scallion Soy sauce Oyster sauce Rice wine / dry sherry Sesame oil Sesame oil has a very distinctive ' Chinese ' flavour . It is very strong so you only need a little . You should not use it for frying - think of it more like a seasoning . Add a teaspoon or so at the end of cooking and stir through .
I use two different knives when I dice an onion . First , cut the onion in half , through the root end ( so that each half has a bit of the root on it to hold it together ) . Next , take a paring knife ( the skinny blade is why I use this knife here ) and make vertical cuts that go almost all the way to the root . Next , use the paring knife to make horizontal cuts while using one hand to hold the onion in place . Last , use a chef 's knife to make downward cuts to finish the dice . If you are trying to julienne cut the onion , cut off both the top and root part of the onion and peel it . Then chop the onion in half vertically and cut thin slices of onion on an angle from the outside toward the middle ( about a 10 degree angle should be fine ) . I do all of this with a chef 's knife .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
The method I used in the past ( which might not be the best way ) is to lightly fry the food initially , drain it of all oils , and put it in the refridgerator until it is almost time to serve the large amount of food . Then you can finish deep frying the batches . The initial frying will dramatically reduce the time it takes to refry each batch . I found this was the best solution for myself as I was able to serve hot and ( almost ) fresh out of the deep fryer food to a large group of people at lot faster . I think the result is way better than if you had to store the fully deep fried food for 2 hours and had to reheat it up somehow .
The party line from <URL> is to : Cut out the stems , wash , and blanche for about 2 minutes Dry Store in freezer bags with as little air as possible They indicate you will get about a year of storage from this method . That being said , the method you propose is well known for herbs , and kale is certainly much heartier than an herb . It should work very well , given that the application is a smoothie and you do n't mind having the kale pureed already . It should keep the kale usable for a year or so as well . So the main issue with the traditional method is , are you willing to blanche your kale ? I know not everyone is . If you use kale for other dishes and have to blend your daily smoothie anyway , you might use the standard method , and store it in daily sized batches , thus giving you the ability to use it for either a smoothie or some other dish .
I trim the stem and remove the outer leaves till they snap to get to the fresh inner core and steam them the night or morning before grilling so they are cold and moist . I prefer steaming because I want all of the nutrients to remain in the artichoke . I cut them in half for the grill , remove the choke and brush them with grapeseed oil where they come into contact with the grill . First , facing down grill them till they feel hot on top then ; flip them over to keep the yummy inner side tender . fill the cavity with garlic butter and ... lemon if you wish . I prefer the brown color to the lemon flavor . I cook them till the butter melts . I like mine barely smokey because artichokes take on the smoke too easily and will taste burned . You ca n't taste the flavor of the artichoke if it gets too smokey .
I 'm not sure how possible it is to give good and definitive advice on how to store fruits and vegetables generally . The best ways to store food will often depend on the specific kind of food and the purpose you intend for it . So take the following advice as more of hint , as it may be very bad advice for a specific fruit or vegetable . Generally speaking most kinds of vegetable store well in the fridge or on the shelf for few days uncut . How well they keep on the fridge or shelf after you cut them it depends a lot on the actual vegetable . For example , bell peppers seem to do OK in a bag in the fridge when cut , an onion is fine if you cover the cut side in plastic wrap , while a cut potato will dry out . You can freeze pretty much any vegetable , just check the frozen goods section of your grocery store , and safely store them frozen for years . While you probably would n't want to use them as a substitute for uncooked fresh vegetables ( eg . in a leafy salad ) , they can usually be cooked just like you would as if they were fresh . You may not even need to defrost them first , often you can just substitute frozen vegetables directly . Fruits for the most part a different matter . How best to store them , especially when cut , depends a lot on the particular fruit . Generally speaking after being cut most fruit needs to be used soon after or becomes useless for most purposes . You can freeze fruit and this will keep them from spoiling , but most fruit does n't hold up well in the freezer . For a lot of purposes , what you get when you defrost fruit is n't a good a substitute for fresh fruit . While most vegetables will have something at least resembling their original shape and texture after being frozen , many fruits end up like mush . Frozen fruits are mainly only useful for things like filings and jam . When freezing things , fruit or vegetables , always use an air-tight container . In the freezer air flow is your enemy . Foods exposed to the air will soon become freezer burnt . You 'll want to prepare the fruits and vegetables , removing skins , seeds and other inedible or undesirable parts , as doing so after freezing will be harder . You 'll also want to label them with their name and when you froze them . Since you can keep them for years , you can end up with a collection of mystery foods in your freezer if they 're not labelled . Two other possible alternative for longer term storage of fruits and vegetables are dehydration and canning . What you can do with the food after preserving them these ways is generally more limited than freezing . Dehydration often lets you eat the dried food as-is , while canning lets you preserve food in a already cooked form . You can also pickle many vegetables ( and some fruits ) but this essentially turns them into a different kind of food .
No , it is not a good idea at all . It will be worse , not better . What you are missing here is that cocoa powder does not dissolve at all , never , it just disperses in water ( or milk ) . So there is no reason why methods for dissolving stuff would work with cocoa powder . You will need to use a method created for colloid-producing powders like cocoa powder , which is mostly starch with fat . This is why the answers to the other question recommend the slurry method . When you are dispersing an absorptive powder like starch , you always run a risk of clumping , and the slurry is designed to work around that problem . But starch also thickens much more under heat , so if you were to not just forego the slurry , but simply drop the cocoa powder into hot water , this would be the worst choice possible , leading to instant unbreakable clumps . The slurry method would n't work with hot water either , you 'll get clumps before you have created the slurry . So , the short answer is : if you try it , it wo n't " dissolve automatically " , it will produce an ugly undrinkable mixture of clumps .
The baking powder does very little to the roti . If you are making them to eat as soon as they are done , there is no need for baking powder . I assume you are asking about <URL> , which are flat breads with no yeast leavening , very similar to flour tortillas . There are many publications that have studied the effects of chemical leavening agents on wheat Mexican tortillas ( which are similar or even identical to chapatis ) . They all find that <URL> , not worth it in my opinion . For a fluffier tortilla , more critical than the baking powder is , when cooking , to get both surfaces done and dry as fast as possible , so that they may act as a barrier to the steam that develops inside . In commercial settings this is achieved by hot-pressing the dough . Commercial chapatis and tortillas manufacturers have to fight staling -- the drying and toughening -- and I imagine that every little improvement counts .
You should always try to first bring hot quinoa to room temperature and follow the rest which you already mentioned . That works great , else if you try to pack it when it like burning hot , then the steam kind of stays in the packed room which later creates moisture and later spoils the food even though you keep it in the refrigerator . Best worked for me is by cooking quinoa in the night . Now I have lot of time to bring it to room temperature followed by pack it , store it and use it .
In this recipe , the nibs are being used as an accent ingredient , adding some crunchiness and a burst of chocolate flavor , as well as some bitterness . They are not essential to chemistry or overall outcome of the recipe . You may : Simply omit them Chopped or coarsely ground roasted coffee would have a similar profile , although not as fatty , and of course , coffee flavored Try another crunchy , possibly somewhat bitter ingredient like chopped nuts ; almonds , hazelnuts , and ( in some people 's opinions , although I dislike them ) walnuts have a particular affinity for chocolate .
I ca n't select either of the above answers as the best answer for the following reason : The brownie I 'm making is meant to be " gooey " , and even after cooling for 2 hours , and then chilling in the fridge for another 30 minutes , the the upper-half brownie still remained fudge-like . I ended up using Jay 's suggestion to eye-ball a 4x4 grid , however I did n't use a hot knife . I used a plastic knife with an up-and-down sawing motion and got fantastic results . The cuts were as clean as you could ask for , and the entire process did n't take more than 5-10 minutes . As an aside : I decided to forgo the " aluminum foil sling " and just spray the 9 " x13 " pan with PAM , line the bottom with parchment paper , and spray it down one more time . The brownie " loaf " came out with zero fuss and had a perfect looking crust . edit : I plan on experimenting with 2 large metal rulers to score the loaf , instead of eyeballing the grid .
Yes , it is perfectly safe uncooked , although it may be unpalatable without being sweetened . For example , you can make your own chocolate milk mix with cocoa powder and powdered sugar . Simply mix it into milk , without cooking , and enjoy . It is also dusted uncooked as a garnish or accent on some pastries or cakes .
The origin of chili con carne is actually from the American southwest , not Mexico . It 's tex-mex , not mex . There are many variations on chili con carne , however if you go back to the earliest known recipes cocoa or chocolate are not on them . It 's pretty basic , flavored mostly by cumin and chili . So if you want to make the most authentic chili to the origin then skip the cocoa . However , there are many good recipes out there which have chocolate or cocoa in them and they are as valid as any other , so it all comes down to personal taste . I add unsweetened cocoa powder to my chili because the bitterness balances out the acidity of the canned tomatoes , and I like the flavor combinations you get . The umami from the chocolate enhances the flavor , and I like the way it hits the tongue , it gives it more punch . Once I made a chili and split it into two , with one I added some cocoa powder , otherwise the chilis were identical . I served both and asked people which they liked better and the vast majority preferred the one with cocoa in it . You can also add a tsp or two of instance coffee instead although I do n't think it 's as good . Adding sweetened dark chocolate instead of cocoa powder works just as well , there 's no much difference except the chocolate adds a bit of sweetness . The main benefit of using chocolate rather than cocoa powder is that you can try different varieties , however as it 's just an undertone you are n't likely to notice . So it 's all down to taste .
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
I do not think your problem is an emulsifier that you are missing , I think it 's just basic temperature and technique ' issues ' . Firstly , you will get a better result if you use a liquid chocolate syrup . It 's like adding granulated sugar to an iced coffee - it will sweeten the cold liquid a bit , but most of the grains will just get wet and clump together at the bottom and not mix together . That 's why using a simple syrup is a better idea , because the solid elements ( sugar ) have already been incorporated into a liquid form so the cold temperature wo n't be a detriment to mixing . However , if you really want to keep using ( or not waste ) your existing cocoa , you have a few options . You can make a slurry of the cocoa powder . Get a container that can be sealed well and add maybe a teaspoon of the cocoa mix to 3 or 4 tablespoons of milk and shake it vigorously . Once it is well mixed , you can add more cocoa , and more milk as needed to keep it totally liquid . After it is fully incorporated , stir it into the rest of your milk and it should mix completely . This other method may not work for cold milk , but it is how I make smooth hot cocoa without having to make a slurry . I take a good quality cocoa and put it in a small bowl and then add granulated sugar - the ratio is n't vital ( and I like a sweet , very chocolatey cocoa ) , but it does have to be enough sugar to fully incorporate with the smooth , powdery cocoa . Basically I am looking to use the grains of sugar to break up the potential clumps of cocoa by having the mixture as thoroughly incorporated as possible , and then stirring very thoroughly as well . I prefer glass mugs so that I can see that I 've gotten all that 's fallen to the bottom . I hope this helps .
Yes , it 's safe . It 's not acidic , and thus wo n't corrode the foil or cause it to leach in . Personally , my favorite was to store celery is in the crisper , in a vented tupperware container , lightly moistened . This extends lifetime somewhat .
I 've struggled with this issue as well because I live in a moist climate and instant espresso powder cakes up on me between uses . Generally recipes which use instant espresso power are trying to add a kick of bitter and roasted flavors to deepen chocolate flavors and make them richer . You can try substituting instant coffee 1:1 , but the flavor of the baked good will certainly suffer a loss of richness . Increasing the amount of instant coffee , however , would likely add more bitter or acidic flavors -- and caffeine -- to the cookie or cake than you want . Also , instant coffee takes longer to dissolve , so it needs to be added straight to a liquid . There 's no real way to substitute liquid coffee in most recipes , such as chocolate cookie or brownie recipes , because the recipe has no water in it in the first place . In the rare recipes where there is water , you could substitute strong-brewed coffee for an equal quantity of water + espresso powder , and this would likely work fairly well . So , summing up : there 's no really good substitute for instant espresso powder in recipes which call for it that I 've found with some significant experimentation . Hopefully someone else has had better ideas than me .
end question
start question
Can I leave cauliflower florets in batter overnight for making Gobi Manchurian ?
Okay , so I seem to have figured out . If you leave florets in the batter overnight , the veggie will loose all the water and make the batter very very thin from what you would actually need for deep frying . So the answer is no . It should n't be done !!
Some answers to your questions , based on my experience with wild sourdough starter in San Francisco : 70-80F is the ideal temperature range . Below that the yeast incubates very slowly ; above it , the starter will tend to ferment alcoholically . Do not leave the starter in direct sun . UV light is a powerful sterilizing agent . An organic , cold-processed ( i.e. stone milled ) flour works best , because it will retain the maximum amount of its own wild yeast on it . Cheeseboard : Collective Works likes to start with rye flour and gradually add bread flour , but they do n't give a tested reason for this . I have never heard of using fruit juice in a sourdough starter . I would be dubious about it ; you 'd be likely to end up with vinegar . Sugar is unnecessary for sourdough starters . Use purified water ; chlorine/chloramine/ozone in tap water can kill your starter . Finally , starters incorporating milk are fridge-only starters ( as opposed to flour-and-water starters , which can be kept at room temperature if split frequently ) which depend on the bacteria and lactic acid from the fermenting milk for part of their sourness . They can be effective , and actually a good choice if you live somewhere with weak/poor wild yeast . Note that you can not transform a milk sourdough into a water sourdough , and using up 2 cups of milk every 2 weeks is more expensive than 2 cups of filtered water .
The historical purpose of jam is to preserve fruit from a time of bounty to a time when it is less plentiful . Therefore , to be a candidate for jam making , the fruit must be reasonably plentiful in the region where it would be preserved . Technically , in order to form a jam or a jelly , there must be sufficient pectin and sufficient acid in the fruit to thicken it . In some regions , there are traditional combinations of high and low pectin fruits , in order to get a viable jam from the low pectin fruit . Some fruits need acid , in the form of vinegar or lemon juice usually , added in order to help them gel ; others need additional pectin . <URL> has lists of high , medium , and low pectin fruits . Other than this , it is down to the cultural preferences in a given region .
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
Yes , you can refrigerate after the machine has kneaded the dough . Cover the bowl tightly . In the morning , take the dough out of the fridge and let it ' wake up ' in a warm place for an hour , cut and shape , then either prove them again or bake straight away ( a second prove will give you a lighter texture ) .
I would store them outside , not inside the fridge . Fridge temperatures make anything containing flour go stale quickly . Of course , sometimes people have to live with it , such as when they have made a cake with perishable icing or filling . But cookies are not perishable , so they are better stored outside of the fridge . As to whether to put them in a sealed container or not , it depends on the cookie . The harder type does all right in the air , and can get flaccid in a sealed container . If they are soft , they are probably better off covered . It is still preferable to not isolate them completely , a canvas bag or a bread box with ventilation slits does better .
Time for a safety lesson . When you are dealing with food products that can spoil , what you are concerned about is the <URL> , which is the temperature range at which bacteria multiplies fastest . While specific numbers will vary , a decent rule of thumb is 4-60 degrees Celsius . What that means is any food prone to spoilage must be kept out of that temperature range , and if it is going to be within that temperature range , it must be for less than four hours , aggregated across the product 's lifetime . What this also means is that when you are chilling hot food you need to do so as fast as possible , in order to minimize the time spent in the Danger Zone . Foods that are dangerous are the ones you would expect : anything which requires refrigeration . Potatoes , for example , are perfectly safe to keep at room temperature when raw , but must be refrigerated once cooked . ( Perhaps a poor example , as potatoes fare better when kept below room temp but above fridge temp , but you catch my drift I hope ) . So we 're talking about raw meats , most dairy ( very hard cheeses may be kept at room temp with no ill effects other than possible softening ) , many vegetables and fruits , that sort of thing . Eggs and butter can be considered a somewhat special case ; eggs can be kept at room temp with few problems ( and in fact eggs used to be kept right out on kitchen counters , in the shell of course , not after they have been cracked ) , while butter can generally be kept at room temperature for a few days before the fats will start to become rancid ( anecdata : we never kept butter in the fridge when I was a kid , except for butter my mother needed for baking , where the temperature is a matter of physics in the recipe , and not health . Never had any problems . ) Harder vegetables -- potatoes , carrots , parsnips -- can generally be kept at room temp without problems , as can many fruits -- apples , oranges ( all thick-rind citrus really ) , bananas , and so on . So . According to the food safety experts , you absolutely should not leave even cooked poultry out overnight , as any bacterial contamination will be severe after a few hours . In real terms , unless you are very young/old or immunocompromised in some way ( e.g. leukemia , chemotherapy , HIV/AIDS , etc ) you 're probably going to be okay . I am a professional chef , and at home I 'm pretty lackadaisical about expiry dates , how long most things have been sitting out , etc. . In the context of work , however , I am extremely anal about rapid chilling/heating and keeping food safe , and I will always advise other people to be cautious with their food ; what I choose to do with my own body is my concern . When In Doubt , Throw It Out is always good advice ; there 's a reason it was stencilled across the inside of the walk-in refrigerator door at one restaurant I worked at . You should also bear in mind that much of the time bacterial contamination is not detectable by the eye , nose , or tongue until it has become severe . Even when contamination is not detectable with our senses , serious illness can occur ( see , for example , recent outbreaks of E. coli , listeria , and salmonella , none of which can be detected with eyes/nose/tongue ) . So the ' smell test , ' while in use by almost everyone who cooks food , is really not all that reliable as a gauge for spoilage ; taste and smell can definitively say that a given product has gone bad , but it can not say that a given product is definitively okay to eat . ( As a side note on food safety , if cheese has gone mouldy , do n't trim off the mouldy bits . Just throw it out . While much of the time any such mould will be entirely harmless , it 's not worth taking the chance over , especially given that if mold has bloomed on the surface of the cheese , spores will be present on the entire surface , with penetration into the cheese itself . Seriously , just toss it , and re-examine how you store your cheese and/or how much you 're buying at a time ) . Even easier to remember : keep hot food hot ( above 60C ) and cold food cold ( below 4C ) . Make things hot as fast as possible , and cold as fast as possible . ( Note that I am a cooking professional , not a medical professional , and nothing here should be construed as medical advice . Always err on the side of caution . )
When making espresso with a machine , normally the ideal temp is around 200F . So I would most definitely not use cooler water . 175F is very hot for steaming milk -- for me that would be way over-steamed and scalded . Most of the resources I 've found say to steam to 150-160F . I 've actually found that even when the thermometer says 150F , it 's over-cooked for my tastes . What I do now is go by feel . I steam in a stainless pitcher and keep my fingertips on the sides . When it 's too hot for me to hold for more than a second or so , I stop .
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
As Jefromi mentioned in the comments , what you do is highly dependent on the recipe for the Bao you are making . Traditionally Bao is made with yeast but if your recipe includes baking powder as the main leavener , then you would need to steam the Bao as your recipe indicates . Otherwise the leavening will expend itself and you will get tough Bao . If the Bao recipe you are using have yeast as the main leavening agent , then you can do either . If you want to steam it the next day then you can leave the dough in the refrigerator to rise the first time overnight . You might want to decrease the amount of yeast used in your recipe in this case . The next day , take the dough out 2 hours before you want to steam it and let the dough sit for about 1 hr to get to room temperature . Then cut and form the dough into the Bao shapes and let it rise for another 45 minutes at room temperature . Then you can steam it . Resteaming Bao is not an issue if thats the route you want to go . A lot of places that sell Bao actually premakes it , steams it and then refrigerates the Bao . Then it is resteamed when it is needed . You can even freeze the Bao if you make a particularly large batch . The quality of the Bao wo n't degrade too much as long as you resteam the Bao .
I have used some of the poppers which use " concentration disks " made by several sources , and will say I have had much better results with them than paper bags . Popping time tends to be fairly consistent with much fewer unpopped kernels than a dry paper bag . It only takes a couple batches to know what the popping time is for your microwave . If time starts to increase or yield goes down with more unpopped or under-popped kernels , time for a new disk or your corn has gone stale . It does cost more than paper sandwich bags , but with not burning batches and less loss and trouble , I personally found it worth it and probably a push on price . And you need to make sure you keep a supply of the disks . Usually it seemed 8-10 batches per disk before they would start to tear and need replaced . I have not tried the ones which do not use the disks so can not compare them .
Replace your ladle with an ice cream scoop . You will be able to control the amount of dough for each waffle much easier . For my waffle iron and scoop I use two scoops . An additional advantage over a ladle , is that the dough releases much easier from a scoop , which reduces the probability of making a mess .
Joe , Whole wheat puff pastry . It 's expensive , and hard to find , though . Or try another recipe . If the recipe you 're using calls for puff pastry , then the flavor and texture of the puff pastry is going to be a big part of the dish . It never works very well to substitute a primary ingredient in a recipe .
<URL> says you can safely store waffle batter for 3 months , but I 've had bad luck freezing it as far as quality goes . After thawing and cooking the batter , the waffles did n't really " rise " enough to be worthwhile . They tasted ok , but the texture was n't nearly what I wanted . Waffles are essentially a <URL> , and I believe the baking powder does n't have the same effect after freezing . I do know that you lose the frothy goodness that you get from the whisking/beating , which is important in achieving the light , fluffy lift inside the crispy exterior . I was told that if you use a yeast recipe instead of a baking powder recipe , you can thaw it overnight and it will give the yeast time to activate by morning - unfortunately I have n't tried it so I 'm only passing it on as a suggestion . What I 've found works : Making a bunch of waffles and freezing them between layers of wax paper . Not as good as fresh , but better than store-bought frozen , and very convenient . Storing the dry mix in the pantry ( short-term ) or freezer ( longer-term ) , as I generally have milk and eggs on hand and have time for a quick whisk . Not as convenient or portable , but tastier . If you modify the recipe using evaporated milk or dried buttermilk , you can make them with water and egg instead of milk and egg . As a side note , you probably have about 3 days in the fridge .
Agar is not a good choice for pudding because it makes a brittle gel and it wo n't melt in your mouth at body temperature . What you want for pudding is a starch based thickener . What we call pudding in the US at least is typically thickened with cornstarch . Modified starches like Ultra-Tex 3 can also work well . Are you thinking of something more along the lines of panna cotta , which does normally have gelatin in it ? If so , you might try carageenan instead of agar . Here 's a recipe that looks promising : <URL>
You 'll want to look for one of two products either <URL> or <URL> . Lait fermenté is a cultured buttermilk . This is homogenized and pasteurized milk which has been cultured with lactic acid bacteria . This is the de facto standard buttermilk in modern times . If you go to an American grocery store and buy buttermilk you are buying cultured buttermilk . Lait ribot is traditional buttermilk . It is the fermented liquid leftover from churning butter . This is not commonly found in the US and other western countries . See also : <URL>
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
It seems the main thing you 're trying to do is avoid any work in the morning before bake . As suggested in comments , the easiest way to do that is to get a mechanical bread-maker . Since you say you 're inexperienced in bread-making , you can dump everything in the night before , program it with a time , and voila -- fresh bread in the morning . ( I do n't tend to like the loaf quality that comes out of most home bread-makers , though ; but if you find one that makes good bread , this is the best solution . ) That said , if you actually want to make the bread yourself , you can do what you want . It 's just going to require a lot of work the evening before . Many recipes can be adapted to do this , though it tends to work best with sourdough loaves . Basically , the technique works like this : Mix dough Knead First fermentation ( 1-3 hours , depending on yeast quantity and bread type ) Shape tightly , preferably with a pre-shaping and bench rest ( another 15 minutes ) Second fermentation , generally takes place entirely in fridge Place in fridge overnight Remove and bake immediately Jeffrey Hamelman suggests this for a number of sourdough recipes in his book Bread : A Baker 's Book of Techniques and Recipes . He also notes that it 's not necessary to let the dough come to room temperature before baking : assuming it has risen enough , you can remove it directly from the fridge and bake with little consequence . ( Also , just to reply to one notion in comments -- it is possible to bake bread starting from a cold oven . Many people prefer to do it that way , though the results tend to be a little less consistent and oven spring is generally a little less . If you do so , it might be easier to bake in a pot . But it would be possible to get up in the morning , turn your oven on , throw the bread in immediately , and have it baked maybe 30-45 minutes later , depending on the size of the loaf . For those who do n't believe me , <URL> who did a comparison of cold oven start vs. preheated and found little difference . ) My experience trying shaping before overnight retarding long ago is that it can work well for sourdough ( see method # 2 <URL> for more details ) , since the yeast tends to rise much more slowly in the fridge . The danger with normal baker 's yeast is that most recipes use too much yeast to make this method work -- what will happen is that your bread wo n't cool fast enough in the fridge , then the dough will overproof and collapse a bit in the oven , often with poor crust formation . Normally , when professional bakers retard pre-shaped dough in the fridge , they do so for only a couple hours , which tends to add flavor . For detailed instructions with illustrations and a recipe showing this , see <URL> . Basically , what you want to do is a similar thing to that recipe , but with less yeast , so you can refrigerate overnight . Unfortunately , that will tend to make your bulk rise go slower , which means a longer wait in the evening between steps . For more information and recipes online , I 'd try instead searching for something like " retarding after shaping , " which is the kind of recipe you 're looking for . You just need to find one that allows retarding for 8 hours or more , rather than just a couple hours . The other option is obtain sourdough cultures and try those recipes . Usually with them the pace of the yeast rise is appropriate for an overnight final proof in the fridge . Still , the results will be a little more finicky ( i.e. , harder to get a " perfect " loaf every time ) than using a more standard method . Also , I just noticed you mentioned rolls in your question . Those would be a lot easier than trying to do this with an entire loaf , and it 's pretty standard to refrigerate overnight before baking . If the recipe is one that depends on removing from the oven for a while before baking , then just delay putting the dough in the fridge for maybe 1/3 to 1/2 of that time ( varies by recipe ) the night before . Then you should be able to bake straight from the fridge to the oven the next morning . Again , it may take a bit of experimentation with a specific recipe to get this perfect .
Why actually , I have just the link for you . <URL> Is exactly what you are looking for . And <URL> for supplies .
I think the issue here is long term storage . If you are only going to keep the food for weeks to a couple of months , I think your home dehydrated products should be perfectly acceptable . Depending on your application -- and I make no value judgements here -- if you need to store the food for considerably longer for whatever reason , then you want to be sure nearly all of the water has been removed , and commercially freeze-dried products are going to be more reliable . Also , according to <URL> : Freeze-dried products can be rehydrated [ sic ] ( reconstituted ) much more quickly and easily because the process leaves microscopic pores . The pores are created by the ice crystals that sublimate , leaving gaps or pores in their place . For another perspective , the vendor <URL> says : When comparing freeze dried foods to dehydrated foods , there are advantages to both . Some advantages of freeze dried foods are that they are light in weight and reconstitute quickly and will have the appearance of fresh foods when reconstituted . A disadvantage to freeze dried foods is that they will take up more space for storage because they are lighter and more space is needed to store the same amount ( in weight ) as dehydrated foods . Advantages to dehydrated foods are less space is needed to store a large amount of food and it is economical to purchase . Freeze dried foods can be a great deal more expensive than dehydrated foods . So in answer to the ongoing question of whether freeze dried foods or dehydrated foods are better -- only the consumer can determine which is best depending on his or her own personal needs and preferences . However , they are addressing commercially dehydrated or freeze-dried products , not home prepared products . Your home dehydrated foods will probably retain more moisture and have less even quality control than commercial processes . For this reason , they may not be as shelf stable . For most uses , though , especially if you are making " meals in a jar " for convenience or short term emergency preparedness , not long term ( years ) of storage , your home dehydrated fruits and vegetables should be just fine .
end question
start question
What 's the best way to store unused sushi rice ?
I do n't agree with Manne on storing rice . If you refrigerate what you do n't use , then long grain rice could be used for a rice salad ( similar to pasta salad ) or fried rice . You might be able to use short grain rice in a rice pudding . But once the vinegar and sugar is added to make sushi rice -- I would n't try saving it for sushi -- it 's not going to have the same consistency the next day , and I really do n't think it would work . You 'd be better off making a vegetable roll or two with the leftovers and chilling that for the next day . Off hand , I 'm not sure where I might re-use leftover sushi rice where the consistency was n't an issue ... maybe a rice-based casserole ? As for the nori -- I use a zip-top bag , and compress the air out , and have n't had any problems .
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
It depends on what type of lettuce it is -- part of the issue is that if the lettuce is touching plastic , it will rot quicker , so I wrap it in paper towels , then bag it ( but not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . For whole heads of lettuce ( iceburg , butter , red leaf , etc ) , I just wrap the whole thing in dry paper towels , then shove it back into the bag from the grocery store or farmer 's market . I then pull off leaves as I need it , and re-wrap it . It stores for well over a week this way . For mescalin mixes , arugula , or other individual leaves , I 'll wash them , dry them , then unroll enough paper towels to spread the leaves on , then roll up the whole thing , and bag the roll ( again , not sealed ) , and keep it in my crisper . I can probably get a week out of it this way . ( all times assume you 're not buying from a store where it 's been sitting on the shelf too long before you buy it ; I get my lettuce when I can from the local farmer 's market ) So , to answer the specific questions : keep the bag open ; you do n't want moisture to condense inside the bag , as it 'll make the lettuce rot faster . I get better storage time with heads of letuce keeping them whole . If you 're going to be eating it all within 2-3 days , it probably does n't matter , and for loose lettuce , I find it more convenient to wash it as I re-pack it anyway . You never want to store lettuce wet ... you might be able to store it completely submerged , but damp will lead to it rotting faster .
If corn syrup works , it seems to me that simple syrup ( i.e. a saturated solution of sugar and water ) ought to work , too .
French presses work pretty well for cold brewed coffee . Just put the coffee and the water in and let it " brew " for a long period of time , then press it down to remove the grounds . <URL> .
My preferred method by far would be heating them in a pot along with some kind of sauce . Failing that , I think I might try putting them in a tightly covered pot in the oven along with just a little water ( just a tablespoon or so ) -- that would gently heat them and also keep them moist .
I ca n't select either of the above answers as the best answer for the following reason : The brownie I 'm making is meant to be " gooey " , and even after cooling for 2 hours , and then chilling in the fridge for another 30 minutes , the the upper-half brownie still remained fudge-like . I ended up using Jay 's suggestion to eye-ball a 4x4 grid , however I did n't use a hot knife . I used a plastic knife with an up-and-down sawing motion and got fantastic results . The cuts were as clean as you could ask for , and the entire process did n't take more than 5-10 minutes . As an aside : I decided to forgo the " aluminum foil sling " and just spray the 9 " x13 " pan with PAM , line the bottom with parchment paper , and spray it down one more time . The brownie " loaf " came out with zero fuss and had a perfect looking crust . edit : I plan on experimenting with 2 large metal rulers to score the loaf , instead of eyeballing the grid .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
<URL> Freeze Brazil nuts , or soak them in water for several hours before cracking . Stand frozen nuts with the point facing up and hit with a hard object , such as a hammer , to crack . Crack soaked nuts with a nutcracker . Place the nut in the grip of the nutcracker so that the seam of the shell is subjected to the direct force . Use minimum force necessary to split the shell when squeezing , in order to avoid crushing the nut kernel inside . Rotate the nut while squeezing so the shell cracks slowly . Extract the kernel from the shell . Allow the kernels of soaked nuts to dry for a few hours after cracking . Read more : How to Crack Nuts | eHow.com <URL>
I usually slit the prawn flesh just above and along the line of the vein to expose it and to make it easier to then pull out . This is different from butterflying a prawn , which involves a deeper cut ( but not all the way through ) of the prawn along most of its length along the same line as the de-veining cut , but also leaving the tail on usually . <URL> shows the de-veining technique and the butterflying .
Yes , you should store them in a air-tight jar , and the best is to store the jar in a cool place in the house . The fridge is to moist for storing cupcakes . You can store them in the jar for about 3-4 days , but they wo n't taste fresh any more . So I would suggest if you want to store them longer then 1 or maybe 2 days , freeze them right after they cooled down from baking . If you use a topping , you can top your cupcakes when they are thawed .
Found the second answer to my question . Per each cup of gluten free flour , add one tsp of xanthan gum ! Woo hoo !
First , I have to say that I very rarely have to store cookies for more than a few days ... However , if it must be done , then I find that they keep well for 7-10 days ( depending on the recipe ) in an airtight container on the counter . I 've never tried vacuum sealing the container . I think that that would lead to explosive cookie crumbles when you tried to open it . If you simply want fresh cookies over a long period of time , the best way in my opinion is to make the dough , roll into balls , and freeze the balls . They will last for 2-3 months in the fridge , and you can bake as many or as few as you like straight from frozen ( add an extra minute to the baking time ) . There will be freshly baked cookies in the amount of time it takes you to make the coffee .
Circular bed of sticky sushi rice , topped with a drizzle of spicy mayo as the sauce and chunks of sashimi . cut into pizza slices .
Seasoning does not preserve food . Some foodstuffs normally used for seasoning , like salt and vinegar , can help to preserve food , but the concentration you need will make your ricotta unpalatable . Salting can preserve food , when combined with dehydration . Bacteria need a humid environment to live in . Salt is hygroscopic , it both helps dry out the food you are preserving ( usually meat ) and directly dehydrates any bacteria which come in contact with it , killing them . Even then , you want to use charcuterie salt ( a mix of NaCl and NaNO2 ) to prevent botulism , as pure table salt ( NaCl ) does n't kill Clostridum Botulinum . Trying to get ricotta preserved that way is counterproductive . Not only will it be way too salty to taste well . You will also have to dry it out to the point where neither mould nor bacteria can grow on it . Hard cheeses are durable exactly for these reasons , but dried-out ricotta is not tasty . In fact , I am not sure that " the yellow stuff " you see is " toxic " , it could just be dried-out . Still , I would n't be willing to risk eating it , even if the taste was acceptable . You could try preserving your ricotta by adding acid . To have it hold a long time in the fridge , it has to be as acidic as a typical pickle recipe . I only mention this because you say that you spice it heavily . But frankly , I ca n't imagine anybody wanting to eat ricotta that sour . The option I would choose is freezing . You already mention " the freezer " , but if you are really freezing it , then it sounds like you are thawing and refreezing the whole container . Alternatively , maybe it was a slip of the keyboard and you meant to say that you are holding it in the back of the fridge . Whatever you meant , I would suggest freezing it in portions , for example using silicone muffin moulds . Once you have frozen your ricotta ( you can add spices it first , if you prefer ) , remove it from the moulds and place it in a freezing bag . Only thaw the amount you will need for a single meal . This should work well enough , in the worst case you 'll have a layer of freezer burn to remove .
The party line from <URL> is to : Cut out the stems , wash , and blanche for about 2 minutes Dry Store in freezer bags with as little air as possible They indicate you will get about a year of storage from this method . That being said , the method you propose is well known for herbs , and kale is certainly much heartier than an herb . It should work very well , given that the application is a smoothie and you do n't mind having the kale pureed already . It should keep the kale usable for a year or so as well . So the main issue with the traditional method is , are you willing to blanche your kale ? I know not everyone is . If you use kale for other dishes and have to blend your daily smoothie anyway , you might use the standard method , and store it in daily sized batches , thus giving you the ability to use it for either a smoothie or some other dish .
Store them in the bag in your fridge . Also , if you take the greens off they will last longer . I keep mine in the drawer at the bottom .
The method I used in the past ( which might not be the best way ) is to lightly fry the food initially , drain it of all oils , and put it in the refridgerator until it is almost time to serve the large amount of food . Then you can finish deep frying the batches . The initial frying will dramatically reduce the time it takes to refry each batch . I found this was the best solution for myself as I was able to serve hot and ( almost ) fresh out of the deep fryer food to a large group of people at lot faster . I think the result is way better than if you had to store the fully deep fried food for 2 hours and had to reheat it up somehow .
end question
start question
What do the base ingredients in pancakes do ?
The range of possibilities with a basic pancake recipe is not very broad . There are additional things you can add of course , but the basic recipe is really basic . Eggs are mostly protein . When you cook an egg , it goes from liquid ( basically ) to solid . The egg blended into the pancake batter will do the same . Pancakes are generally cooked pretty quickly over a fairly hot fire , and that quick heating makes the egg proteins lock up and stiffen . Think of the difference between making a fried egg and scrambled eggs : fried eggs should cook fast , while scrambled eggs cook slowly to keep the eggs from being rubbery . ( The other pancake ingredients counter that rubbery toughness of fast-cooked eggs . ) Flour is mostly starch . Starch absorbs moisture ( from the egg and the liquid ) . People started making things like pancakes because flour is relatively cheap and keeps well , and one egg can make a lot of flour-based pancakes and feed a lot more people than the egg alone . The liquid ( milk in your recipe , but other stuff works ) is necessary to thin out the batter ; we 're still stretching that egg out . Without a liquid addition , you 'd have a lump of thick dough . By keeping the pancake batter thin , you ensure that the batter poured onto the hot griddle will remain loose enough to spread out into the familiar flat disc , providing a large surface area for the egg protein to solidify . The salt is there so that the pancake does n't taste bland . That 's an easy one to test . Most American pancake recipes also include some sugar or another sweetener . American pancakes without some additional fat -- melted butter or vegetable oil , usually -- would not be liked by most Americans . The added fat makes the pancakes softer and richer . Using table cream or something instead of plain milk can work too , as would adding an extra egg yolk . Baking powder is a mix of dry sodium bicarbonate and one or more acidic salts . The blend is ( usually ) designed so that some amount of gas is produced as soon as the powder is mixed with liquid , and more produced when the batter is heated . Finally , besides the bill of ingredients , the process used to combine the ingredients is also important . Wheat flour has gluten in it , and too much mixing in liquid will form gigantic protein mega-molecules in your batter and result in disturbingly chewy pancakes . You want gluten development for bread , but not pancakes , muffins , and other " fluffy " baked goods . Generally , dry ingredients ( except granulated sugar ) are pre-mixed separately from wet ingredients . The two are combined as the last step before cooking . You also want some air in the pancakes ( for American pancakes at least ) , and that 's of course what the baking powder does . You can get even more air in by separating the eggs , using the yolks as a " wet " ingredient , and then whipping the egg whites into a soft foam . The foamed whites are then blended in when the wet and dry ingredients are combined . ( Note that you do n't want air in crepes , and that 's the purpose of letting the batter sit for a few hours before cooking : it lets bubbles escape , bubbles formed in the blender or via the whisk used to prepare the batter . )
I 've never used bhut jolokias but I love spicy vegetable oil . DO NOT just throw the peppers in a jar of oil . Apparently this is bad . Follow the much more helpful links in the comments that follow this and make the oil properly . Once you do this you can cook pretty much anything that needs a little ( or a lot ) of extra heat . You said you have other peppers so it might be interesting to set up a few jars with different pepper combos . Bonus : if what I 've heard of these peppers is correct , you can probably make a low grade mace this way . If you 're looking for something to do right away , I 'd mix a very small piece in some melty cheese and throw it on some chips , burritos , pizza , or anything really . Spicy cheese rocks . Good luck and enjoy .
I actually debated asking a similar question last month , as I managed to set mine on fire the day after Christmas , and based on the new one I got , differences I 've noticed ( mostly features I miss from the old one ; also a few things I 've noticed at my neighbors and mom 's house . Insulated top ; If you frequently run out of space in your kitchen , and need to keep stuff on top of the toaster oven , it comes in handy . ( and some allow the top to open up so you can expose the top so it could be a bread or plate warmer ) Is the rack connected to the door so , when you open the door , the rack pushes out a couple of inches , so you do n't have to reach in to extract things and risk burning yourself ? ( okay , I admit , there 's a few drawbacks to this ; it means the rack is n't easily removable to be cleaned or if you need to pull it all the way out because there 's something that got pushed to the back , and the next item ) Multiple racks or rack heights . The different positions might be useful for the broiler , but the multiple racks really are n't that useful ; things wo n't toast right when they 're blocked by another level , and they do n't tend to cook evenly when in oven mode , either . ( maybe if it 's a convection ... it 's my neighbor 's toaster oven , so I have n't played enough with it ) If you leave both racks in there , then you 've barely got any space in between to grab things out , so you 're risking burning yourself . ( and well , they do n't have that last feature where the rack pops out when you open the door ) Location of the controls ; some are on the side , some are on the bottom . Controls on the bottom are more prone to getting damaged by things getting pushed around on the counter , but I prefer it for a few reasons -- ( 1 ) the toaster oven 's narrower , as there 's no wasted space to the side ; ( 2 ) the door opens higher up ; this means you can have a large plate on the counter without it getting in the way when you want to open the toaster . Convection ; some have it , some do n't . Broiler ; not all can do broil ( top element ) only . Depth of the unit ; some of them bump out so they can fit a round pizza ; if they also have a little bracket so you do n't accidentally push it up against the wall , there 's hardly any space left on the counter . How exposed the elements are ; some of the newer ones have grills over the elements , I have n't had mine long enough to see if that 'll protect it from melted cheese dripping on 'em , which I think was the cause of my toaster fire . Turn-dial vs. brown-ness setting . I do n't know how to explain this one . All of the toaster ovens in the stores I looked in have a dial , where you have to turn the dial past 10 min , then back to the little reference marks for the darkness that you like your toast ; My old one just had a setting at the bottom , you set it to toast , and hit the button . If you wanted to shut it off , you opened the door . Of course , with this style , there was n't a timer on the oven , either . Turn-off-via opening the door : Some do , some stay on . I 'm used to it , but of course , if that 's the only way to shut it off , that also means you have to open the door to shut it off when there 's a fire inside , which means better airflow . ( or unplug it , but when the plug 's on the other side of the toaster , that one 's not a great option , either ) . Electronic controls : I personally view it as something else to break , but they might be able to do something special ; I 've never bought one , myself . Cord length ; only really a problem when you 've got an old kitchen that does n't have a plug every 12 " or whatever the new standards seem to be ; but you really do n't want to plug a toaster into a power strip if you can help it , so if you know you 're going to need to run it 3 ' down the counter , check the cord length . ( and which side it attaches , just in case you 're then going in the wrong direction with it ) Crumb tray . I hear other people use 'em . They 're supposedly important so you do n't catch the thing on fire . Accessories . Some come with a little tray to use ; some of them also have a little insert to turn it into a broiler pan ( so you lift it out of the pan a little bit , so it wo n't stew in whatever drips off ) . And I understand that you need some air flow around the pan , but in my opinion , something 's wrong when the tray that comes with the toaster is 1/2 the area of the rack ; it 's like they were n't even trying , they just tossed in a tray from some other oven . Others come with a little tool so you can pull the rack out so you do n't burn yourself ( which then gets lost or broken and thus sucks ) Size . If you tend to make toast for lots of people at a time , then some of the larger toasters might be worth it ; If you 're single , the 6 or 8 slices of bread at the same time ( but not the size of bread you like ; you can only fit two of those ) toasters might be a bit overkill ) And they now seem to measure themselves by ' size of a pizza I can fit ' , which makes no sense to me , as everyone knows the correct way to size toaster
Yeah , I would agree with the people in the comments , and make the assumption that it had to do with concentrating the ethylene gas from the bananas . After a bit of googling , it looks like the rice bag trick might be popular because it apparently results in a nearly ideal , stable environment for ripening . I imagine that the rice would keep the moisture level at a lower point , the bag would contain the gas , and the mass of the rice would decrease the temperature variants ( assuming that is conducive to ripening ) I found an informative article which mentioned rice bags here : <URL>
The meaty taste is Umami . It is the flavour of monosodium glutamate , in the same way that salty is the flavour of salt . Both mushrooms and tomatoes of the right variety are quite rich in it , as is yeast extract . You can also just buy the stuff commercially . Do n't worry about the stigma attached to it , it 's not actually toxic or anything .
One method I found over time : Chop it into tiny pieces and stir fry it with bacon and onions ( also chopped up ) . Once that 's soft , leave it to cool , then mix it in meatballs in a 50:50 ratio . If some eggs and breadcrumbs are added a fine meatball is made that tastes a bit sweeter and veggy and is healthier . :)
There is n't anything that is necessarily " bad " or should always be avoided in stock , but some ingredients have qualities you wo n't always want . Dark greens ( spinach , kale , etc ) can make a stock bitter and of course greenish in color . Cabbage also can impart a overwhelming bitterness . Potatoes can cloud a stock from their starchiness , so they are not good when you want clear stock for something like a soup or consomme . Tomatoes may overpower flavors in a light stock , but are a critical component in most dark stocks ( browning tomato paste improves the color ) Onion skins add a deeper flavor , but yellow or red skins can change the color of a light colored stock dramatically . Skin and extra fat from the meat used is sometimes avoided to reduce the amount of skimming required later on ( I personally do n't skim , the extra fat does n't bother me ) The bones of very oily fish ( mackerel , salmon , and trout for example ) are usually avoided because they can make a stock too strong in specific flavors to work in any other dish . Oily fish stocks also tend to have an unpleasant odor .
My version of this ( <URL> ) actually came with a set of instructions . It 's not meant to be used for cooking , only for serving . Place the pan in a hot oven for about 30 mins to heat it up ( while you 're cooking ) , then put your fajitas on it to bring to the table . The cast iron will retain heat for a long time and keep anything you serve on it sizzling hot . A cast iron pan would be a great way to cook fajitas , but the shallow sides and strange shape of the " sizzler " pan make it impractical to really cook on . The same instruction book also recommends using another cast iron pan ( two , actually ) to cook the fajitas . If you want to use it for something other than fajitas , it would work just fine as a small griddle . You could probably cook pancakes , a strip steak , or chicken breast on it , but nothing that requires any stirring .
If you 're worried about the sugar not dissolving , you can add golden syrup to the thawed sorbet . It will also make your sorbet softer . I 've only tried making sorbet a couple of times but when I used golden syrup , its consistency was softer than when I used sugar .
Sifting and whisking are not the same thing . Sifting breaks up lumps in dry powder ingredients , mixed powdered ingredients , and makes the flour less dense . Some people would say sifting makes flour " airier " . I measured the volume of flour before and after sifting and I found a significant increase in volume for the same weight of flour post-sifting . Sift flour when making light sponges , or if your flour has gotten densely packed over time . Whisking is just a way of quickly mixing dry ingredients together , it does n't break up lumps like sifting or mix things as effectively as sifting , but for many recipes it does n't matter .
Coffee can be used for a variety of things BESIDES drinking straight . Off the top of my head , you can use less-than-perfect beans for : Chocolate mousse and cakes : brew into coffee , and add to the chocolate mix for a richer flavor Ice cream and sorbets . Coffee ice cream is awesome , and the cream will mask defects Chocolate-covered coffee beans . These make a great pick-me up snack for mornings , sweet and caffeinated . Coffee-flavored simple syrup , for baking and cocktails . Use equal weights coffee and simple syrup . Compost . Grounds compost very well , especially if used In a pinch , stale beans also make great projectiles . Got squirrels on your bird feeder ? Coffee bean slingshot !
Looking at individual recipes , there is a great deal of overlap between Crêpes and Swedish pancakes . If , however , you compare hundreds of recipes , some clear differences emerge . There are also differences between the English interpretations of these recipes and those written in French or Swedish . In the chart above , each cohort consists of at least 100 distinct recipe ratios , except for <URL> Crêpes ratio which is provided for comparison . A taste test of the Swedish recipe Pannkakor with French recipe Crêpes revealed the following differences : Batter : The increased liquid content of the Swedish pancakes made the batter much thinner than the Crêpes batter . Swedish pancakes are made in a pan with a raised lip around the edge . This allows the thin batter to be sloshed around , evenly coating the pan surface without running over the edge . Crêpes , on the other hand , are made on a <URL> . The batter must be thick enough that it will not run over the edge . A T-shaped spreader is used to evenly coat the crêpe maker surface in a perfect disk shape . Frying : Crêpes fried up extremely easily , unsticking themselves from the skillet ( I had neither a pancake pan , nor a crêpe maker available at the time ) making it possible to toss the Crêpes instead of flipping with a spatula . Swedish pancakes , on the other hand , require a bit of fiddling with a spatula to flip them . Crêpes had a slight tendency to curl up at the sides after flipping so they cooked less evenly than the pancakes which stayed perfectly flat after flipping . Flip side of a Crêpe ( French recipe ) Flip side of a Swedish pancake ( Swedish recipe ) I also tested Michael Ruhlman 's Crêpes ratio . These curled up to a much greater extent than French recipe Crêpes after flipping and were , consequently , quite unevenly browned on one side . Flip side of a Ruhlman 's Crêpe Taste and consistency : Both French recipe Crêpes and Swedish recipe pancakes hit caramel and butterscotch notes . In short , they both tasted great . The Crêpe consistency was a little tough together with traditional Swedish accompaniments ( Whipped cream and Strawberry jam ) whereas the Swedish pancakes were light and fluffy ; this worked perfectly with the filling . I tested again with lemon juice and sugar and this time the Crêpes won through , holding up well to the additional liquid while the Swedish pancakes became a bit soggy . Ruhlman 's Crêpe recipe did n't perform nearly as well . The caramel flavour was much less pronounced , they had a dry mouth-feel and they were tougher than French recipe Crêpes . For anyone who wants to form their own opinion , here are the ratios and ingredients I used in the tests : Swedish Pancakes ( based on 200 Swedish recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:3.5:1:0.16 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 79g or 150ml all purpose flour 278g or 278ml milk 80g , 68ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 13g or 13ml butter 1/4 tsp salt Crêpes ( based on 119 French recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:1.97:0.75:0.17 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 116g or 219ml all purpose flour 228g or 228ml milk 86g , 73ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 20g or 20ml unsalted butter 1/4 tsp salt Update : Joe 's comment prompted me to chart the ingredient proportions as a <URL> .
Just slice it into thin discs ( a mandoline is quick ) and the kids use it as chips 'n' dip . Try some natural or Greek style yoghurt and whole seed mustard as a dip . Very crunchy and tasty If the skin is dry or blotchy I quickly run the potato peeler over it first Otherwise , just grating it into soups or stews is a nice vegetable filler EDIT Doh , forgot the best thing to use it for Coleslaw , it replaces cabbage perfectly . Or you can mix cabbage and broccoli . Just coarse grate it with some carrot , onion . Blend it up with a little mayo and yoghurt , or lemon juice and olive oil . Add some ground fennel and cumin seeds or some chopped mint for extra zing
Double-yolked eggs are the result of an anomaly in the egg generation process in the hen . They can happen in any breed of hen , on any feed . It is a result of two ova being generated at the same time , and then encapsulated in a single shell . According to <URL> , it happens more often with younger hens . I am not aware of any process to intentionally foster double yolked eggs , but that does n't mean such a thing does n't exist . They are safe to eat , although they may be visually startling .
Under-ripe tomatoes definitely seem to me like they were n't exactly meant to be eaten like that . There are certainly still things one can do with them , but the flavor is n't always what you 'd like ( see tastefive 's comment ) ; they were selected for their characteristics when ripe . Tomatillos , on the other hand , have always been used like this . They 're supposed to be tart and bright green ( unless they 're a differently-colored variety ) . I think tastefive was pretty on-target with the mention of lemon juice ; they have a nice bright tartness to them but definitely no bitterness . They 're quite pleasant to eat fresh , if you 're the kind of person who likes tomatoes and fruit . ( I just ate one to make sure I was n't lying to you . ) A much bigger difference , though , is n't taste : tomatillos are n't really juicy . You can slice and dice all you want and your cutting board will still be dry . This is pretty clear from pictures - here 's one I found with Google image search : This makes them very well-suited for the kinds of Mexican sauces they 're traditionally used in , more so than a green tomato would be .
DO I has to ? Nobody learned it ? Garum , a fermented sauce made with anchovies as the principal ingredient , was the Romans ' legacy to Britain when they left GB for home . They put the stuff in everything - Roman Fricassee of Dormouse would be naturally adorned with garum , Roman asparagus would have to be served with garum ... There was a sauce , Worcester sauce , that had disputed origins - but was obviously based on an English version of garum , . So there was a historic Dickensian precedent a la Jarndyce v Jarndyce between Lea and Perrins , who sold Worcestershire sauce to avoid argument , and Hammonds of Bradford who sold something very similar marked " Yorkshire Relish " , which they acquired when they bought Goodall , Backhouse of Leeds . What happened was that Hammonds won , in that for a brief period they sold WORCESTER sauce without dispute about the name , instead of calling it Yorkshire Relish . Just after that they were taken over by some multinational who did n't give a tinker 's cuss about that valuable TM , just the market share . Some brands , including Yorkshire Relish , were sold to an Irish company who are still making the " thick " Yorkshire Relish brown sauce in Ireland , but not the " thin " version we are discussing here . Lea and Perrins are still selling Worcestershire sauce . The Hammonds Sauceworks brass band are still performing , although the factory produces no Yorkshire Relish . There is a factory somewhere producing Henderson 's Relish , which is very similar to Worcester sauce , but made in Sheffield with no Garum - never seen an anchovy . At least Lea and Perrins still produce the closest thing to a traditional product which goes back 2,000 years . Whatever they do with the anchovies , that component is said to be left for three years to mature .
Butter is typically added when the fudge is first taken off the heat - but it is n't mixed in . The butter is allowed to melt across the surface to keep it from forming a skin on top . Vanilla , nuts , and all other additions are mixed in at the end of the cooling period when the fudge is stirred . Alton Brown , with some help from Shirley Corriher , <URL> .
Most of the recipes I 've made for Sri Lankan curries typically have pandan , dry curry leaves , fennel , green cardamom , mustard seeds , cloves , cumin , coriander &amp; black peppercorns .
The Nordic Food Lab , founded by René Redzepi , has experimented with blood as egg substitute , full blog entry including recipes <URL> . Apparently texture-wise the substitution can be possible , but the typical bloody aftertaste is hard to mask , which might have to do with the physiological way the metallic taste is perceived . It seems especially women tend to recognize this ingredient quite easily .
The crusting is important so that any flowers or other intricate decorations will fix their shape and not slump when left out in warmer temperatures . ( you do n't want to refrigerate iced cakes , as when you remove them from the fridge , you 'll get condensation ) . An icing that crusts quickly means that you can use an icing that 's not quite as stiff for your decorations , and after a few hours of decorating , you 'll come to appreciate that minor difference . The crust is also a benefit when trying to get a <URL> . Some other recipes will crust over time , and <URL> uses more powdered sugar and cream of tartar , but no merangue powder . I suspect it 's the starch in the powdered sugar that ensures that it still crusts up . As for shelf life ... I 'm not 100 % sure . I believe that the eggwhites have been pasteurized , and I 've made flowers , let them dry out , then kept them stored for months at a time ... but I ca n't remember if those were made with merengue powder or not . I suspect that some batches were .
end question
start question
Do bananas ripen better in rice sacks ?
Yeah , I would agree with the people in the comments , and make the assumption that it had to do with concentrating the ethylene gas from the bananas . After a bit of googling , it looks like the rice bag trick might be popular because it apparently results in a nearly ideal , stable environment for ripening . I imagine that the rice would keep the moisture level at a lower point , the bag would contain the gas , and the mass of the rice would decrease the temperature variants ( assuming that is conducive to ripening ) I found an informative article which mentioned rice bags here : <URL>
Almost certainly : <URL> . I 'd go with the ' porridge ' or ' brown rice setting ' if your cooker has it . Concensus on water ratio seems to be about same as for rice . Here 's a question which lists <URL> . With a quality cooker , you can also make baked beans and tasty onion soup .
Do you mean this one ? <URL> . If so , in Japan it is actually known as <URL> ( meaning pomelo candy ) as shown in this description . Here is a <URL> to how a similar milk version is made ( I think you would use mandarin/pomelo ( bontan ) juice in there somewhere for what you want ) , but it is in Japanese ... Perhaps the pictures will help but ... sorry , I do n't know if it 's ok to translate this ... but it says : milk 500ml , sweet glutinous rice 500g , sugar 500g , mizuame ( maltose ; could use corn syrup instead ) 600g , potato starch 200g , and a tray 31cmx24cmx3 .5 cm . Briefly , it says to soak the rice for half a day , then drain , and blend with the milk for 2-3 mins . Transfer to a pot and simmer on medium heat for 20-30 mins . Add sugar in a few lots , mix until dissolved . Drop to low heat , add mizuame and stir/knead very well - the firmness of the final candy will depend on how long you do this . Dredge tray with a thick layer of potato starch then pour the mixture in . To harden , refrigerate when cool .
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
Harrold McGee indicates in On Food and Cooking that soaking brown rice for 20-30 minutes can speed the cooking . However , he does n't give any specifics . In looking to what I consider highly credible cooking web sites , I have not found any definitive answers . Cook 's Illustrated 's recommended method for the fastest , best tasting brown rice ( no link since it is probably on the pay site ) is : Boiling the rice for our brown rice recipe until it is almost tender ( about 30 minutes ) , draining it , then steaming it until done ( another five to 10 minutes ) is by far the best stovetop method for brown rice . <URL> ( 50 minutes steaming , 10 minutes resting ) is quite similar . <URL> recommends baking technique which may be delicious but is almost certainly the one that will heat your house the most : putting rice in a casserole covered with boiling water , and baking at 375 & deg ; F for 1 hour . You have actually asked two different questions : What is the fastest way to cook rice ( duration ) ? What is the most energy efficient way to cook rice ( least heating of your house ) ? These are not the same thing . Something to consider : of all liquid non-metals ( and I do n't think any of us are going to cook in molten iron ) , water has the the highest capacity to transfer heat . It is going to be very difficult to find a way to cook rice that is faster ( at least for actual time cooking the rice , when not counting bringing water to the boil ) than the traditional pasta method , as often employed in some parts of India : Bring water to a boil , add the rice , cook until done , and drain . However , the energy required to bring all of the surplus water to the boil and the enthalpy of vaporization will make this fast , but not efficient . Your most energy efficient rice production method ( and this is by the very laws of physics which govern our universe is also the one that will add the least heat to your home ) is almost certainly a rice cooker , which will heat only until it senses the rice is done . ( Of course , what the rice cookers are really measuring is the rise in temperature when the water is all absorbed or evaporated , and so the temperature can rise ; therefore , starting with the correct ratio of rice to water is critical ) . The bottom line : brown rice takes time to cook . Some rice cookers , however , let you set a timer so that the pot will have the rice ready when you come home . This might be your best bet .
Absolutely you can ! It 's a popular choice with Chinese and Indian flavor profiles . You can just treat it exactly like you would any other leftover rice . It 's a lovely ingredient to work with . The nutty Basmati flavor works beautifully however you choose to season fried rice .
That is almost certainly a " best by " date , not an expiration date . <URL> calls the shelf life of uncooked white rice " indefinite " . Yes , you can cook and serve your rice assuming that it is free of contaminants .
Basmati rice is supposed to flow freely though , if it clumps , you are using it against the norm and should probably stick with a stickier rice . Usually Basmati is used Pilau style , or in a Biryiani , then the grains are slightly coated in some form of fat ( oil , ghee , etc ) , so the starch you would definitely want rid of .
For baking cakes and breads it is important to control the humidity in the oven . In early stages of baking one typically needs the humidity to remain in the baking chamber , which is hard to do with a gas oven . Two of the bakeries near my house use electric ovens with brick lined baking chambers ; the other uses gas . Expansion Gas and electric ovens can be built to bake the same way if cost is not an issue . Most home gas ovens will circulate the combustion products ( mainly water vapor and carbon dioxide ) in the cooking chamber . As the flames burn , combustion products need to be vented out of the baking chamber . Electric ovens also need vents in the baking chamber to help maintain the pressure as the air inside expands . Steam is essential in the initial stages of baking for good crust formation in breads and crack-free cake surfaces . The oven cavity can hold much more steam than released from the gas combustion and it is my inference that the steam content of an electric oven will be higher ( I can not find published steam measurements inside ovens ) . After the dough expansion , the vapor coming off of the dough or batter needs to removed quickly for browning and for the inside to cook well . The constant flow in a gas oven makes it better at that . In an electric oven a peep or two during the last baking stages will handle excess moisture . Two bakeries near my house use electric ovens , the other , which makes excellent French baguettes , uses a gas oven . The baker there has had both electric and gas ovens and he prefers the caramelization of the gas oven . But note that he can handle the moisture problem with the steam injector of his professional gas oven . He also noted that using gas ovens require skill as they have temperature and moisture quirks . Recipes may be adapted to either gas or electric ovens . In the US the majority of recipes are designed for the electric oven ( they 're more popular ) .
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
I am guessing you have a model which seals tightly and thus is a type of pressure cooker . Turbo mode no doubt essentially pressure cooks the rice so that it can reach temperatures above 212 F / 100 C and thus cook faster . ( The Cuckoo product line seems to have this as a distinguishing feature . ) There really is no downside to pressure cooking grains or legumes from a culinary perspective , and the modern equipment is quite safe .
In comments you note that you last bought a jar of green , pitted olives in brine . Those tend to be much saltier than the versions served as a <URL> in Mediterranean and Middle Eastern restaurants , in part because the restaurant versions are usually whole and thus have less surface contact with the storage brine . They 're also fresher ; restaurants that go through larger quantities of olive can afford to purchase higher-quality olives that have n't been sitting in their brine on a shelf somewhere for months ( or years ) . Olive variety may also be a factor . The picture you 've provided looks closest to me to a <URL> , which have a very mild , almost buttery flavor . This mildness comes from its processing , which is close to the preparation of the black California olives familiar to Americans . They 're washed in a lye solution , which flushes the bitterness of the fresh olive , and are then rinsed to remove any traces of lye ; they can then be brined for a short period of time , but they 're typically much fresher and less salty than other olives . I know a few chefs who like serving them as a starting course specifically because they 're not overwhelmingly salty . As others have suggested , you can seek out similar higher-quality olives in bulk at boutique grocery stores . You 'll have to pay a bit more for the privilege , but the other advantage is that such stores are usually happy to let you try some of the varieties before you buy .
I 've cooked white rice , brown rice , wild rice , whole Oat Groats ( 2 brown rice cycles + a little extra water on cycle two ) , rye groats , Khorasan wheat ( kamut ) , barley , Spelt , and numerous other seeds in my fuzzy logic rice cooker , but never Quinoa . It seems to me the white Quinoa seed benefits from a short cook time , and a long post-cooking expansion time . A rice cooker does n't do that very well . The red Quinoa I can also get is tougher , and might like being cooked like brown rice . That said , I have n't tried it . It 's certainly possible that your rice cooker could make passable Quinoa . I suggest you give it a try on a small batch . If you like the result , post that here , and I 'll try it too .
The <URL> suggestions : To ripen a California Avocado , place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75 ° until ready to eat ( usually two to five days ) . Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas , a ripening reagent . Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten , but not for more than two or three days . The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
This is a really difficult topic to approach , and I think the only reliable way to identify flavours is through years and years of practice using those flavours in your cooking . To start with , I think the easiest thing to do would be to understand the different types of flavours . Those are : Sweet Everybody knows this one . Sweet is the taste of sugar , candy , and so on . Sour Sour is the taste of acidity . Citrus fruits like lemons/limes , vinegar , pickles , and so on . Salty This is the taste of , well , salt . Needs no further explanation , I hope . Bitter Bitterness is what makes you want to grimace - but many people do acquire a taste for it . The best examples of bitter are probably coffee and beer . Leafy greens and horseradish are other good examples . Savoury or Umami This is the taste of " hearty " foods - meats and cheese especially . Specifically , it 's the taste of protein . Glutamates ( i.e. MSG ) also provide this flavour . It 's actually a lot more involved than this - our taste receptors can detect <URL> , but those are the easiest to tell apart . The most notable " quasi-flavour " is probably Hot or Piquant ( not to be confused with pungency , which is a more general term for anything " strong " tasting such as horseradish or garlic ) ; this type of heat is due to capsaicin , which is found especially in chili peppers , and I call it a quasi-flavour because it does n't actually work on taste receptors , it works on pain receptors , and it 's addictive due to the subsequent release of endorphins . Anyway , all that aside , the place to start would be to get used to the five basic flavours above . Eat some foods that are chiefly one flavour - a caramel , a lime , a few flakes of horseradish , a hunk of meat , or ... a dash of salt , I guess . Get used to what they taste like . Then you should be able to start recognizing combinations - for example , a cured sausage will be salty and savoury . Lemonade is sweet and sour . If you 're able to start identifying the flavour types then you can start trying to narrow down the actual ingredients and ask yourself , " What could be adding this [ bitter ] flavour ? " Most full entrées will try to establish a balance of all of these flavours with all of these flavour elements . For example , a Chinese stir-fry sauce will include sweet ( sugar or honey ) , sour ( rice vinegar ) , salty ( soy ) , and umami ( sesame oil ) , and used on vegetables which are primarily bitter ( i.e. broccoli ) . Whenever you 're eating a food that 's really great , expect it to have something contributing to all the basic flavours and try to think about what elements could be used to create them . Even if you only manage to figure out 4 out of 5 , chances are you can substitute something else for the 5th and manage a similar taste . Of course , it 's worth repeating that this is n't just going to come magically to you . You need to pay attention to what you 're cooking ; only when you 've constructed hundreds if not thousands of your own concoctions will you be able to deconstruct the ones that others have made - and even then , it 's kind of tricky if the recipe is complicated , because lots of preparation steps will change the flavour , like browning ( Maillard reaction , adds sweetness ) or roasting ( tends to add savouriness ) . As far as spices go , they 're pretty much all in the same flavour category ( which I 'd really just call " spicy " ) although they may also lend varying amounts of umami or pungency to the final dish . The only way you 're ever going to be able to identify spices is to start experimenting with them - lots of them - and learn what they taste like separately and together . I would say that this takes years for most cooks , and sadly , I do n't think there are any shortcuts . Well , that 's it for my intro . Hope that helps !
My foolproof method is as follows : Weigh out the desired amount of rice - I use 2-3oz per person - and put it in a saucepan . Wash the rice well by filling the pan with cold water , tipping it out , and repeating about 10 times . The more you wash the less the rice sticks together . Put enough water in the pan to cover the rice by about 5-8mm . Leave to soak for 25 minutes until the rice grains have turned opaque white . Put the saucepan over a high heat , uncovered , and bring to a boil . Boil until the water has evaporated and the surface of the rice is dotted with small holes . Turn off the heat . Cover tightly : if the lid is n't a tight fit , place a piece of foil on the pan , then put the lid on . Steam for at least 15 minutes . The beauty of this method is that it does n't matter how long you steam the rice for once it 's past the 15 minute minimum - in fact , the more it steams the better it is , especially if you have added spices or flavourings to the water .
I do n't know that type of rice , but it sounds like it ran out of liquid before it was done . Some types of rice can be done in about 10m , some take over half an hour . My tricks for risotto like dishes are : wash the rice to remove loose starch taste regularly so you can intervene as needed , avoid stirring as much as you can ( you can stir a few times to avoid burning ) , fry the rice with the onions before adding water , add liquid in small batches until it 's done . Try it with a few small batches to get the hang of it . It could very well be the wrong type of rice , so you may want to try other brands .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
Alton Brown talked about this on an episode of Good Eats , and here 's what I remember : If you cut with the grain , you 'll end up with long strands of protein , like this : From what I understand , this means that it 'll be pretty chewy . Your mouth has to work harder to break the strands up into smaller pieces to be more easily swallowed . If you cut against the grain , you get strands like this : You can see that the strands are much shorter , which means the meat will fall apart more easily ( each strand does n't have as much surface area to connect to adjacent strands ) and will therefore be more tender .
end question
start question
How can I prevent the odor in my dishwasher ?
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
I 'm not a chemist so I 'll let wikipedia do it for me : <URL> As far as it 's culinary effects in crusts - I have seen unreliable reference to the flour oxidizing and developing a off color . I have never seen this personally and I am skeptical of it . Pie crusts can be made just fine without vinegar . Vinegar does significantly tenderize the crust as well as add an interesting flavor .
Spanish hot chocolate and Italian cioccolata fiorentina both use cornstarch as a thickening agent . Both are used more for dipping or sipping ( churros in the former case ) , however you could easily just use less cornstarch to make it more ' drinkable ' . Try a teaspoon of cornstarch , mixed with a little cold water , added to the milk when you boil it . As Kate Gregory suggests , you could also use full-fat milk , or loads of shaved chocolate .
When the butter cools in the fridge ... It 's going to thicken up . I ca n't see a way around this ? When you heat it up again , it should return to consistency ...
If you do n't fancy cooking in aluminium foil ( kind of takes the point away ) , you need to make sure you have a super clean , extremely hot grill . Why ? Clean ( No tasty burnt fat from the burgers ) , flesh sticks like #### to a blanket . You can get away with it when cooking steaks because they are just so much stronger . So get a wire brush and clean an area for fish cooking and keep it clean :) . Hot , as hot as you can pretty much . You want the second that Salmon ( or other fish ) hits the grill for it to blacken . It 'll help make sure the flesh is no longer ' fleshy ' and again less likely to stick . Do n't try lifting it till ' you know that underside is like a pink and black Zebra on it 's underside ( 3-4 min ) . When it does come to lifting you could really do with a nice sharp fish slice , not a blunt fat ended egg slice . Good luck .
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
In terms of commercial food processing , there are more efficient ways to extract gelatin than slow-simmering the bones , generally by treating the organic matter with a strong acid prior to boiling , then using commercial evaporation and filtering equipment which is far more efficient than anything a home or even restaurant cook has access to . According to <URL> ( see the " Gelatin Manufacture " section ) it can also be first treated with a strong base solution before acidifying it , which lowers the isoionic point . It 's kind of difficult to explain exactly what that is if you do n't have a background in organic chemistry ; technically speaking it 's a relationship between pH and electrical charge - but applied to extraction it refers to the pH at which the solubility of a protein ( such as gelatin ) is the lowest . Lowering this is a good thing in extraction , because it means that the gelatin will be easier to filter out in an acidic solution . Thus I have to point out the question is actually a bit contradictory ; if your goal is the extraction of gelatin then you want to decrease the solubility . But I think this is all going to be beside the point anyway , because none of this applies to stock making ; the goal in food processing is to extract the pure gelatin , not to get a flavourful stock . When making a stock you definitely do n't want to use an acid solution , it 's going to ruin the flavour . Realistically , when it comes to stock-making , especially at home , the only way you 're going to be able to extract more gelatin is to simmer it longer . That 's it . When the bones break without any resistance , that means you 've denatured all the collagen and you 've got all the gelatin you 're going to get . I would n't worry about solubility because typically in stock-making you 're already using more than enough water to dissolve all the gelatin that you could possibly hope to extract .
Try throwing some baking soda and lemon juice in it and run an empty load without soap . Repeat as needed . I 'd try about half a normal sized box of baking soda and half to a whole cup of lemon juice .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Start with the milk and add ice cream till you reach the desired consistency . If you want to add ' bits ' start when it is about halfway to the thickness you want
Here 's what I do - it simulates the high direct heat and then lower , indirect to finish ( like on the real grill with multiple zones ) : Put the ' grill ' on the top rack ( make sure its not coated or non-stick , that it can take high heat ) . ( I do mean to put a pan under this to catch grease . ) Turn the oven to broil for a few minutes . Prep your chicken . Put it in the oven under the broiler for a few minutes ( I ca n't really give you a time here because it depends on thickness and other things ) , but you 're trying to promote that browning and a bit of char like the grill . * After its been in a few minutes and browned/charred somewhat , pull it out and quickly flip it and repeat . If your dish is n't fully cooked to your liking , move the item to the middle rack and turn the heat down some . Pull it out when finished and Rest the meat . Enjoy To be honest though , for indoor grilling - I usually preheat the oven to 400 , get some grill marks on a cast iron grill pan , and then finish in the oven . Its only when the volume is too much that I do the above method . Cast iron grill pan for a couple of servings has always been much less troublesome than the broiler which can bring items from tasty to ruined in record time for me . * Some people close the oven door here , some do n't - its the difference between if you just want to sear it or really start to cook it . I pretty nearly always close the door , but I 'm also the guy who always puts the lid back on the grill .
The easiest and best solution for the problem is to not dissolve it into water in the first place . Powdered sweetener keeps indefinitely . Dissolved sweetener falls smack in the middle of <URL> , so you have converted a shelf stable food into an unstable one . Assuming that you want to keep it at room temperature , there is not that much you can do . You can reduce the water , but I do n't know enough about the solubility of sucralose , it is possible that it is still susceptible to mold at the saturation point , just like sugar . You could try acidifying it sufficiently to stop the mold from growing . But then it will taste much less sweet , so you will have to add a much larger amount to your drink , several time the amount you normally use . Alternatively , you can acidify it less and use sodium benzoate as a preservative . It is normally used for industrially produced food , so I can not suggest the correct ratios of acid to sucralose to sodium benzoate . But note that simply mixing them in any old way wo n't give you a safe product , you may need industrial recipes for correct usage .
Cumin is most often used ground , yes . You can , if you prefer -- and as in common in Indian and other cuisines -- toast it first until it is fragrant ( a minute or two in a dry skillet at medium heat ) . Then , grind it in a spice grinder or mortar and pestle .
Gloves are annoying and , much like condoms , do obscure sensation and -- in the case of kitchen work -- precision with your fingers . For those reasons I avoid them wherever possible . As a lifelong nailbiter ( from when I was about 9 until I was 31 ) , it was a habit that was really hard to give up . But it has been worth it , not just professionally . I know this is n't the answer you 're looking for , but : stop biting your nails .
Some years ago I tried a lemonade in southern Peru . It was very tangy and creamy . I asked the waiter how they made it and he replied that they blended a whole lemon with its peel . The juice was then strained . It was g
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
The easiest solution is to use different cheeses . Most commercial pizzerias , like Domino 's or Pizza Hut do not use expensive cheeses like Parmesean or fresh mozzerella ... they use crappy cheese designed to be stretchy and to stay that way when warm instead of hot . In general , they use part-skim mozzarella , which is often sold pre-shredded and in hard blocks like you 'd find cheddars . This is addressed in another answer , <URL> . Hard cheeses like Parmesan are unlikely to melt at all and , when they do , they will firm up quickly as they lose heat . You should rarely expect a hard cheese to melt well . Most of them do n't . They also lose a lot of oils when they melt , causing unsightly separation . They 're great for a burst of salty cheese flavor but they wo n't behave like Domino 's cheese . This is why it 's common to top a completed pizza with shredded Parmesan but you would n't want to use it as your primary base cheese for the unbaked pizza . Fresh cheeses like ricotta and mozzarella have the opposite problem . Their high moisture content will often make pizza unappetizingly <URL> . In contrast , the part skim mozzarella used in pizzerias is specifically chosen because it has low water content . Check out the two questions linked here for a ton more info . You should consider doing some research into which <URL> as opposed that separate into an gross mess . Note , this list , like many others includes Asiago but it 's important to notice that the list refers specifically to fresh Asiago , not the Parmesan-like aged sibling .
This is a combination of the type of cheese and too much heat . Some cheeses melt more readily ( mozzarella for example ) , but all of them will seize up if they are heated too much too fast - the proteins ' curl up ' and separate from the fat and water in the cheese . To combat this , you should chop or grate the cheese up to speed up melting , and lower the heat a little before adding it . You should also avoid using cheese straight from the fridge .
end question
start question
What kind of onions for dal ?
My mum and I 've always used red onions all our lives and everyone or a huge population in North India uses red onions . I have friends here in Australia from South India who I 've seen using red onions as well when making dal . Having said that , I 've also tried brown onions a few times and it does n't make too much of a difference . And good luck with your first time making it :)
There are a lot of good detailed answers on this page already , but I guess I could add my own $ 0.02 to the conversation and maybe a different angle to the answer . . I have been home roasting and brewing for about 2 years now and I think the # 1 thing I 've learned about pulling espresso shots is that it is all about consistency . In order to effect consistency you have to control your variables , and the more variables you get control of , the better chance you have of maintaining consistency . Over the past two years I have continuously refined my process by modifying the entire chain of coffee production , whether it meant ordering a new piece of hardware or changing how I did something . For instance , I installed a <URL> on my Racilio Silvia in order to control brew temperature , I bought a <URL> to get better feedback on the quality of my shots , and bought a <URL> to make sure I was getting proper brew pressure at the group head , the list goes on and on . So when I saw your question about " always using the same coffee " I interpreted it as just another one of those variables that you can get control of and that will effect the quality of the shots you pull . In the beginning I stuck with the same coffee and roast to try to minimize the number of variables I was working with . Once I was more familiar with how each variable effected my shot and how I could manipulate them to get what I wanted , I began to experiment . So I guess for me keeping the coffee the same boils down to removing some noise from the system to make it easier to manage ...
What you want is cream with 35 % -40 % milkfat , and no gelatine or other stabilizers for whipping . If you use a lighter cream , then it will not have the rich , creamy texture , and evenly thick consistency you seek . In fact , if you use a light enough cream , it will not thicken properly . Now we enter the murky realm of regional naming differences , trying to find the appropriate kind of cream ! In Australia , this would be called pure cream ( 35-56 % milkfat ) ... which might be the same as " cooking thickened cream . " Read the label and make sure it is just cream , not gelatin or foam stabilizers like " thickened cream " . It could also be labelled " single cream " too ( ~ 35 % milkfat ) . In America , we call it heavy cream , or heavy whipping cream , and it is defined as 35 % + milkfat , and is generally around 38 % . In the UK , <URL> I found the uses a mixture of milk and " double cream " ( cream with 48 % + milkfat ) . They mix 100 mL whole fat milk + 426 mL of double cream . The final milkfat content is somewhere around 40 % . In the rest of the EU , the same procedure appears to be the best bet , since I ca n't find clear names for heavier creams besides double cream ( which appears to be the same as the UK ) . Edit : You may also be able to get a good result using straight double cream . I 'm looking at a French recipe that uses it . The catch is , of course , that while the minimum fat content is specified , actual fat content in double cream can vary considerably , potentially giving erratic results .
According to <URL> , the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked , without any fat or oil , in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away . Fat ( usually niter kibbeh ) is then added , often in quantities that might seem excessive by modern Western standards , and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients . This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew .
Firstly - shop-bought " packet " bread will keep for several days because it contains a lot of preservatives . In his excellent book Bread Matters , Andrew Whitley claims that home-made sourdough breads with very long rises have better keeping properties than home-made bread made with baker 's yeast and short rises . This , he claims , is because the sourdough yeast cultivates a culture of friendly bacteria and an acid environment , all of which become natural preservatives . My experience seems to confirm this . Bread recipes containing egg , oil or milk tend to keep for longer than those without . As @SAJ14SAJ says , bread freezes very well . Loss of flavour in the freezer is not a commonly recognised phenomenon . One option is to slice a loaf of bread , bag it and freeze it . Take as many slices as you need at a time . It will defrost very quickly at room temperature , due to its low mass and high surface area . Another option is to make rolls , part-bake , and freeze . When you need them , take as many rolls as you need from the freezer , and place in the oven , to both defrost and complete the baking . You will get fresh baking smells and flavours from this . I suspect that home-made unleavened breads ( pita , chapati , tortilla ) , without added preservatives , will not last long out of the freezer . Their advantage is that with no rise , they are so quick to make that they can be made fresh on-demand .
Without a reference to the specific product , I would assume that it is in fact flour . It 's very common for many chicken ( and other meat ) recipes to call for dredging in either seasoned flour , or flour followed by an egg wash and spice/breadcrumb mix . Since these commercial mixes obviously have to be completely dry , they are most likely to be seasoned flour . Check out some recipes for seasoned flour ( alternatively called seasoning flour ) , you 'll probably find them to be very similar to the mixes you 've been using .
There are 3 main types of rice huller in use : The oldest , <URL> , takes strength , time and patience . <URL> have been around since the late 1800 's , but high speed ( 5Krpm + ) centrifuges are not consumer devices . They can be quite dangerous if not used correctly . <URL> are probably the most common type today . You do n't see many consumer friendly units around , but rubber based attachments for Corona mills are <URL> Once you get your rice dehulled , you 'll need to separate the chaff . There are lots of ways to do that , <URL>
The potato is probably not as important as the method . Simply frying them will not get you the fry you want . Basically you boil them , then double fry them . Here are the steps for <URL> : Ingredients 2 pounds russet potatoes ( about 4 large ) , peeled and cut into 1/4-inch by 1/4-inch fries ( keep potatoes stored in a bowl of water ) 2 tablespoons distilled white vinegar Kosher salt 2 quarts peanut oil Procedure Place potatoes and vinegar in saucepan and add 2 quarts of water and 2 tablespoons of salt . Bring to a boil over high heat . Boil for 10 minutes . Potatoes should be fully tender , but not falling apart . Drain and spread on paper towel-lined rimmed baking sheet . Allow to dry for five minutes . Meanwhile , heat oil in 5-quart Dutch oven or large wok over high heat to 400 ° F. Add 1/3 of fries to oil ( oil temperature should drop to around 360 ° F ) . Cook for 50 seconds , agitating occasionally with wire mesh spider , then remove to second paper-towel lined rimmed baking sheet . Repeat with remaining potatoes ( working in two more batches ) , allowing oil to return to 400 ° F after each addition . Allow potatoes to cool to room temperature , about 30 minutes . Continue with step 3 , or for best results , freeze potatoes at least over night , or up to 2 months . Return oil to 400 ° F over high heat . Fry half of potatoes until crisp and light golden brown , about 3 1/2 minutes , adjusting heat to maintain at around 360 ° F. Drain in a bowl lined with paper towels and season immediately with kosher salt . Cooked fries can be kept hot and crisp on a wire rack set on a sheet tray in a 200 ° F oven while second batch is cooked . Serve immediately . Worth reading is also <URL> .
I would n't pay much attention to this list . I would just get my cookware based on what functionality I need , not based on what my stove manufacturer says . The idea of not using cast iron on glass to protect the glass from scratches is as perverse as keeping a sunhat in the closet and going to the beach bareheaded to protect the sunhat from color fading . Your stove 's purpose is n't to gleam , it is to cook . The manufacturer probably tries to shield himself from customer complaints : " your stove got scratches " " nothing we can do , you treated it against our recommendation " . This would explain the overly cautious list . I have an induction stove with a glass plate myself . I do n't have cast iron cookware from the type common in the US ( Lodge pans and similar ) , but I have a wrought iron pan , not seasoned on the outside ( it developed black rust during seasoning the inside , as well as something which I suspect must be ferrous sulfide ) . It is smoother than cast iron , but rougher than a typical stainless steel pan . I regularly use it on my stove . Also , I regularly clean the stove with a mild abrasive ( equivalent to Unilever 's brand Cif ) and once or twice , I had a baked-on spill which would n't go away with this cleaner , so I used a steel wool scouring pad instead . I worked gently , but still applied enough force to remove the residues . After cleaning and polishing with a glass-ceramic cleaner , my stove literally mirrors the ceiling . I bet it has less scratches than my phone screen . So , I think that all the stories about iron cookware damaging the stovetop are greatly exaggerated . But if you are really scared , you can sand and season the bottom . The other claims are also dubious . Alu melts at 660 ° C , you probably wo n't reach it even if you forget an empty pan on high for hours . Nobody uses pure copper pans anyway , and if it is an inner layer of a sandwich bottom , there is no way it will leave marks . And so on . Only the glass warning is good - not because it would damage the stove , but because you risk the glass vessel itself to shatter . Bottomline : Buy based on what material is best for cooking whatever you plan to cook . The stove should be able to take it . And if you are rough and it does get a scratch or two , then I do n't see why it should bother you - it is a tool , not a fashion statement .
Cookies for shaping are usually rolled cookies . Common categories would include : Sugar cookies ( as Mien mentioned ) Gingerbread Linzer cookie dough Look for recipes where you use a rolling pin . These are already formulated for minimal spread . Adapting other cookie recipes for use with cookie cutters will be trickier , and probably not worth the effort , in my opinion .
Cottage cheese will keep it consistent and match very well with the zucchini &amp; spices .
Low and slow is the only way to go , I 'm afraid . You can add some broth and simmer them down ( as opposed to just cooking them in oil ) but make sure you add little enough that it will all evaporate ... Do n't want to be pouring off flavor .
The choice of one onion over another is really going to come down to personal preference based on color and flavor . Red and white onions are usually milder in flavor than yellow onions which is the reason they 're often the choice for hamburgers and sandwiches . Yellow ( sometimes referred to as " Spanish " ) onions tend to have a more pungent flavor . Sweet onions ( Vidalia , Maui , Walla-Walla , Texas 1015 ) develop more sweetness and fewer sulfuric compounds due to the mineral content of the soil that they 're grown in . This is why you can have onion sets ( small bulbs ) from any of these varieties but they wo n't necessarily be sweet ( or as sweet ) because a lot of it has to do with the makeup of the soiling they 're grown in . Two years ago I hosted Jeanne Jones ( syndicated writer of " Cook it Light " column for King Features syndicate and writer of over 33 cookbooks including " Canyon Ranch Spa Cookbook " ) for guest chef cooking classes . If I recall correctly , she said she used primarily white onions because they have a lower sodium content than any other type . Did that " mean black eyed pea salad " recipe happen to come from a certain " Low Country Cooking Class " ? If so , I used it for two reasons : not everyone will have access to Vidalia onions and it provides additional color .
It 's a regional preference on what they 're called . When you 're buying seeds , they 're also called " bunching onions " , and I grew up calling them " scallions " , although I think that scallion specifically do n't have a bulb yet formed , while green/spring onions might . update : A little research suggests that " spring onion " is the preferred term in the UK , AU and Canada , " green onion " in the US south , and " scallion " in the US northeast , however I 'm not sure what the exact boundries are as in the US mid-atlantic , I 'll see both " green onions " and " scallions " for sale , with " green onions " being larger ( scallions with no bulb , maybe 12 " / 30cm long , while green onions might have a 2 " / 5cm bulb , and have over 24 " / 60cm of green top ) . It 's possible that " green onion " might be a polysemous term that varies by region .
Milder cheddars are for melting . They get used in things such as grilled cheese sandwiches , grating into chili , nachos , or in quesadillas . In these uses , they do n't need the full-bodied flavor of a sharp cheddar , but they do need to melt down into soft , gooey , creamy deliciousness . Sharper cheddars are for flavor . I commonly see them in sandwiches , macaroni and cheese , topping salads , and as part of cheese boards . The reason it works like this is that " sharper " cheddars get their bite from additional aging , which develops a richer flavor but makes the cheese drier and increases the melting point . That said , there are no hard and fast rules for how to use mild vs. sharp cheddar . In my house we always use extra sharp cheddar because even everyday cheese should be a gustatory delight . It 's a little trickier to make into a quesadilla or melt on a cheeseburger , but the extra tang is worth it !
There are actually two dishes being sold , and neither is " Phở " . The words that she yelled and had Gordon do the same were " Hủ tiếu , Bún riêu " . They are both noodle soups , the former is pork based broth , and the latter , porc and shrimp/crab with tomatoes . You can google the words for more info .
I looked at the first 8 recipes that came up on a Google search . All but one just said " Dry White Wine " . One said , " dry white wine , such as Sauvignon Blanc " . So , I would say that 's your answer . Any dry white wine will do , perhaps Sauvignon Blanc might be ideal .
The bakers couche is not just floured fabric , it is usually a hard wearing canvas It is used to allow the dough to breath , and hold it 's shape while your actual bread moulds are being used in the oven . The all over air gap allow the crust to dry slightly . A dry crust makes it easier to handle and bakes slightly more crispy The flour is there to stop the soft dough from sticking to the canvas , but a with careful handling and a well worn in couche this should not happen If you keep the couche dry it should not develop mold or mildew . Even if it does , leave it out in the sunshine , so that the UV light can deal to it . I ca n't imagine that the occasional normal household mold is going to form dangerous toxins that can survive the oven ! After use , give the couche a good brush down with a clean fine bristled brush , and store somewhere dry If you have plenty of the fine perforated steel moulds , you wont need to use a couche , just use the pans
Aluminum is n't exactly toxic or harmful to the same degree as lead , <URL> . And as you 've identified , aluminum is fairly reactive . <URL> in any aluminum cooking vessel ( or utensils for that matter ) . This is an issue for three primary reasons : Absorption of aluminum is , as noted above , not necessarily healthy . Absorption of aluminum can result in a metallic flavor in your food , which is generally unpleasant . Absorption of aluminum into your food also corrodes the cooking vessel . That third is probably of the most concern here , since you 're talking about a vessel that 's under pressure when in use . Sufficient corrosion and the resulting structural weakness could ( in very rare cases ) cause a rupture and sudden pressure release , i.e. . <URL> This would take a long while to occur , and you 'd almost certainly notice the corrosion on the inside of your vessel before it became truly dangerous , but this type of problem is exactly why modern pressure cookers have such fancy pressure-sensitive locks and come with warnings all over them . They can pop if abused , and they do this in your kitchen , possibly while you 're nearby . So , extended cooking of certain acidic items ( what if you wanted to make , say , <URL> ? ) could be dangerous with long-term use , hence the warning . Such foods will also contain more aluminum than they would otherwise , and taste like it as a result . <URL> with information on the general pH levels of common foods , which may help you identify specific items of concern . Another good way to avoid this is to select a stainless steel model instead of aluminum . Stainless is more expensive and does n't heat up as quickly , but it 's not as reactive as aluminum either , so there 's less concern when cooking acidic ingredients over a long period . <URL> with comparison of features and some more specific recommendations .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
end question
start question
How to make kidney beans tender ?
Adding a little bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) to the beans when soaking overnight should help soften them .
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
The cut is important for both techniques . For sauteing , you need a lean cut - fillet , sirloin , or good rump steak . These should be cooked quickly over a high heat . As Cerberus has suggested , if you are cooking something else in the same pan , take the beef out and re-add it later ; do n't boil it in a sauce . Stewing beef needs some fat and cartilage which breaks down during slow cooking and tenderises the meat . Packs of such beef are usually sold as such in the supermarket ; look for a pack with plenty of fat marbled through the meat ; ' Lean stewing steak ' is as useful as a waterproof teabag ! My personal favourite stewing beef is brisket , as it breaks down into nice tender fibres after 2-3 hours cooking . Contrary to popular belief , browning meat does nothing to ' seal in the juices ' . It simply provides a bit of extra colour and flavour by ' caramelising ' the outside a little . So if you have a strong flavoured stew ( like a chilli , for example ) , just throw the chunks of meat straight into the sauce .
For a start , any Asian dish will be effected if the chicken stock is not good . Make quality chicken stock from whole chicken carcases , and take your time with it In the case of Laksa , the key flavours are mostly in the Laksa paste ( shrimp paste and lemon grass ) . If you do n't have an equivalent of the one used at To 's you will have an entirely different dish . A lot of effort can go into a Laksa paste ( or for that matter curry pastes in general ) , in terms of exact ingredient ratios , roasting times etc , quality and freshness of ingredients etc Laksa is often made with prawn stock , not chicken stock . Save the prawn heads and other fish bits , and boil them up for a very stinky prawn stock Do n't overdo the coconut milk/cream . Stick to one brand , and start with a lot less and see how it goes , if it is lacking , add more . Record what the magic amount for your favourite brand is Getting quality and fresh ingredients for Asian dishes is often a major stumbling block for truly authentic tastes . Making your own decent Laksa paste is near impossible outside of Asia . Western grown lemon grass , tastes like , well grass ! When you 're next at To 's have a peek in the kitchen , ask if you have too . And check what they use for Laksa paste . If it 's out of a branded jar you 're in luck , if it 's homemade , it 's back to the grindstone , literally The recipe linked , does not seem like a very good Laksa recipe to me . Also a good Laksa is topped with chilli oil . This is an import part . It consists of a lot of chilli and a little garlic cocked in a cup of oil . Float a couple of spoons of this on each bowl as you serve it
The tradition has been to use the Blue Lake variety for canning and pickling , even though Kentucky Wonder is judged as having a fuller flavor . One has to be careful with Blue Lake , as it is being bread for easy mechanical harvesting , with less attention being paid to flavor , according to the <URL> . When I grow stuff , I buy my seeds from Burpee . The <URL> for snap peas ( what they are now calling string beans , as the string is gone in many varieties ) lists a stringless cross between Blue Lake and Kentucky . That would be my choice for a pickle . I would try to grow them slowly by not overwatering , as that increases the calcium content of the plant and how well the beans keep their texture submerged in a jar .
Coffee can be used for a variety of things BESIDES drinking straight . Off the top of my head , you can use less-than-perfect beans for : Chocolate mousse and cakes : brew into coffee , and add to the chocolate mix for a richer flavor Ice cream and sorbets . Coffee ice cream is awesome , and the cream will mask defects Chocolate-covered coffee beans . These make a great pick-me up snack for mornings , sweet and caffeinated . Coffee-flavored simple syrup , for baking and cocktails . Use equal weights coffee and simple syrup . Compost . Grounds compost very well , especially if used In a pinch , stale beans also make great projectiles . Got squirrels on your bird feeder ? Coffee bean slingshot !
The toxin in kidney beans is destroyed by boiling for around ten minutes , which no doubt holds true for any toxin in the water as well . So there should be no problem with using the soaking water to cook the beans , provided you cook them properly .
If they 're gummy , they might still have too much moisture in them . Try roasting them at higher temperatures or longer and see if they crisp up .
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
Welcome . According to the excerpt below from <URL> , kidney beans are an acceptable substitute . azuki bean = adzuki bean = Tiensin red bean = aduki bean = asuki bean = field pea = red Oriental bean = feijao bean = red chori Equivalents : 1 cup dried yields 3 cups cooked beans Pronunciation : a-ZOO-kee Notes : The Japanese use these small red beans to make sweet red bean paste , but they 're also good in rice dishes or salads . Azuki beans are sweet and relatively easy to digest , so they wo n't make you as gassy as other beans . They also do n't take as long to cook . Substitutes : black azuki beans OR red kidney beans OR Tolosana beans That said , while you may be able to substitute them you may need to make adjustments to end up with a similar bean paste . For example you may need to add more sugar as adzuki beans have a natural slightly sweet flavor . Also , even though you have canned beans , they may require a bit of cooking to get them to the right softness . ( Adzuki beans tend to have a very creamy texture . ) Note that dark red kidney beans tend to be more firm than light red . All said and done , you can probably make adjustments and end up with a slightly different result . But as for me , I would get the adzuki beans .
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
Basically , it is that easy . But it is a costly endeaver . I have know chefs to make it with a pure olive oil or grape seed oil . Some heat it to 220 degrees or so but I have meet some that do n't . The ones that did n't made sure to pull the oxygen from the bottle with one of those wine vacuum savers . I have been told self made truffle oil will lose it truffle flavor due to most the flavor actually coming from an odorant . I have not personally made any so I ca n't speak from experience on how long it will hold . All the above being said . If I had the money to buy some truffle , I am not sure the best use for them would be to make truffle oil .
I think the problem lies in that the beans are not water blanched , but rather oil blanched . The technique is called " dry frying " , and is a traditional Sichuan cooking method . The oil temp is kept low to dry out the inside while cooking the outside of the food . After the dry frying you can then stir fry the food . This technique should give you the required look and texture to the food . Hope this helps .
What you need , my good man , is a candy fork . Basically it 's a two-tined fork with incredibly thin tines . Dip , lift , allow excess to drip off , place on parchment ( you will get a tiny ' foot ' but this is normal ) . unless you 're talking about absolutely perfect spheres ? to my knowledge this is not doable by hand , you will need industrial machinery . and the two hemispheres method will leave you with a seam . i have heard one solution for the tiny hole left by a thin skewer is another tiny dab of chocolate and a quick blast with a hair dryer to smooth out any imperfections , but i have never tried it myself .
They will technically last a long time in the freezer - up to many months - but this is not the best way to store them as they lose flavor quickly ( as little as 5-6 uses ) . Even though the beans will last , storing them in the freezer is not ideal . It affects flavor for a number of reasons . ( See below ) If you have n't opened the bag , store the bag in the cupboard , away from sunlight , heat , and excess humidity . The best way to store coffee beans after being opened is in an opaque , airtight container at room temperature ( unless you have a resealable bag with a degassing valve designed for storing coffee ) . After being opened , the beans are considered fresh for 2-3 weeks , although if you are strict about the storage you may be able to get up to 5 out of them . ( When I say fresh , I mean with minimal flavor change/loss ) Why the freezer is bad : Freezing beans severely lowers the humidity in the bag or container . This causes the beans to become stale very quickly . In effect , you are slowly freeze drying them . Also using cold beans in a grinder can mess with grind due to the oil on the beans being in a more solid state , which in turn affects the brewing . If you do decide to store them in the freezer , put them in an airtight container and when you go to use the beans let the container warm up to room temperature before opening . This way you do not mess with the overall humidity content of the container too much . Especially let them warm up to room temperature before grinding . Sources : I am a Barista in a cafe and a lover of coffee at home . I have tried both methods of coffee storage and have dealt with many customers who have tried both . In my store we follow these regulations : Beans that go into an opaque container that is not totally airtight are fresh for two weeks max . Packaged beans with a degassing valve are fresh for six months or longer in the bag . Beans , once ground , can not be used after two hours ( that being said , ground coffee starts losing flavor immediately ) . Obviously , the sooner you use everything the better , but we follow those guidelines .
If you are handy with electrics and electronics , linking a heating element to a PID controller is probably your best bet for stability . This will give you quite stable temperatures . You can find many sets of instructions by googling <URL> , which is a very similar application , although higher temperature ranges are usually the goal .
You ca n't really substitute marshmallows in that recipe . I have had some luck with the following procedure : Get a good quality chocolate of the flavour you would like to use . Do not try chocolates with 70 % cocoa solids or more . They are good for some things , but not for this . Melt it in a double boiler . Do not make the chocolate boil or heat it directly ( some can do that but most people end up with burned chocolate ) . Remove it from the heat . Fold in 2 spoons of glycose syrup ( for regular nonmilky chocolate ) and mix fast . Let it cool and when it gets close to room temperature , put it in the fridge . For darker chocolates , use a bit more glucose and less for lighter chocolates .
With every ( edible ) part of an animal , you should consider the former duty of the piece of meat at hand . This will influence the internal structure and thus the best method to prepare it . So throwing all chicken offal into one pot at the same time is probably not the wisest idea . Lets " dissect " what we are dealing with here : Liver and kidneys Basically no muscle fibers , just a very tender large gland . Keep in mind that there are no fibrous parts that " melt down " during a long cooking process , just tender stuff that gets very hard and dry when overcooked . So short is the key here - a quick sear in a hot pan and you are good to go . Depending on your personal preference , slightly pink or " just not pink any more " would be a good point to serve . Note that especially for organs from larger animals careful preparation is important : remove all hard parts like " vessels " and excess fat and wash kidneys well or soak them for half an hour to an hour . Some suggest soaking in milk . Hearts and stomachs Just the opposite - a hardworking muscle , garnished with a good amount of collagen . Here , you need time to break down the collagen . When you heat heart or gizzard , first the muscle parts toughen up , then the collagen breaks down and the piece gets tender again . Braising is a common method to acchieve good results . For chicken hearts , sources vary between 15 and 25 minutes braising after roasting/frying them in your pan . It may depend on the quality of meat at hand , where your personal " just right " is . Larger animals ' hearts may need much longer , a very old cook book of mine suggests 1.5 hours for beef hearts . Chicken gizzards are even tougher than hearts : did you notice the white lump of collagenous fibers on each side when cleaning them ? Give it time to get tender . It may take from thirty minutes to over an hour - sources vary .
This really is n't a good substitution . Think of the difference between fresh peas and dried split peas - they are two completely different products . But if you are really set on doing this , simply soak and cook the dried limas like you would any other dried bean , then add the fully cooked lima at the same stage that that recipe calls for the fresh beans .
end question
start question
Why is it called spit roast ?
From <URL> : Rotisserie is a style of roasting where meat is skewered on a spit -- a long solid rod used to hold food while it is being cooked over a fire in a fireplace or over a campfire , or roasted in an oven . A spit is a long solid rod :) ( as confirmed by <URL> )
Well , technically there is a minor difference between biga and poolish , but often the terms are used interchangeably . Just for clarification : A poolish uses equal parts ( by weight ) of flour and water and very little yeast ( sources vary between 0.1 % to 1 % fresh yeast / 0.03 % 1 to 0.33 % dry yeast of flour weight ) . This leads to a poolish being rather liquid and easily mixable with a spoon . A biga has a lower water content , usually in the range of 40 % to 60 % of flour weight and a yeast content of 1 % fresh / 0.33 % dry . It will be quite firm in the beginning and may require some kneading to mix dry and wet ingredients properly . But should you explicitly knead ? Actually , you do n't need to . Both pre-ferments will rest for hours . During that time the gluten will both develop ( - > see the principles of <URL> ) and be diminished to some extent by the growing yeast . You do n't want or need to mess with this process . Just mix flour , water and yeast until somewhat homogenous ( no dry patches ) and let both yeast and enzyme activity do their thing . You will observe that the " uneven " preferment will change texture over time , yeast starts to bubble and when it 's ready to use , it will be nice and even . 1 Yes , that 's a really , really tiny amount .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
The current most common term in English appears to be " century egg " , but it 's also been known as a thousand-year egg or hundred-year egg . It 's typically produced by aging in a solution of table salt , calcium hydroxide , and sodium carbonate , but traditional methods involved less refined versions of those chemicals wrapped in clay ( and some quantity of rice bran ) . More details in this <URL> . <URL> Image : Wikipedia/Wiki commons
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
Yes . What you can do is throw the potatoes in with the meat - anything above 85C will eventually cook the potatoes through . Then when you pull the meat out to rest , raise the oven temperature to say 190 - 200 C and possibly add a little fat . They wo n't take long to finish roasting to a nice golden brown .
By your description I would say it 's taro or 芋头 ( yu tao ) in chinese <URL> It can be bought in most chinese supermarkets For more info <URL>
I 'll attempt to expand upon daniel 's answer above . Boudin describes a sausage that is generally created from a blend of beef , rice , and/or pork ( <URL> ) . Sometimes other types of proteins are added to create variations : Gator , Shrimp , crawfish , etc. . Boudin is widely known to be used in Cajun cooking . Other various types of Boudin exists . As wikipedia defines various different types of boudin : Boudin blanc : A white sausage made of pork without the blood . Pork liver and heart meat are typically included . In Cajun versions , the sausage is made from a pork rice dressing [ ... ] In French/Belgian cuisine , the sausage is sauteed or grilled . The Louisiana version is normally simmered or braised , although coating with oil and slow grilling for tailgating is becoming a popular option in New Orleans and Baton Rouge . Boudin noir : A dark-hued blood sausage , containing pork , pig blood , and other ingredients . Variants of the boudin noir occur in French , Belgian , Cajun and Catalan cuisine [ ... ] Shrimp Boudin : Similar to crawfish boudin , it is made by adding the shrimp to rice [ ... ] [ 4 ] Boudin rouge : In Louisiana cuisine , a sausage similar to boudin blanc , but with pork blood added to it . This originated from the French boudin noir . Brown Rice Boudin : Taste is very similar to traditional pork boudin , except this boudin > is made with a brown-rice substitute for those looking to cut down on white rice intake .
I had this exact same problem for years . And it was all about letting the dough relax . I 'd get beautiful crusts , but never EVER pass the windowpane test . I was so confused . Turns out , all I had to do was leave it alone for about 10 minutes , much less and I 'd still run into issues . The window pane test is intended to show that enough gluten has been formed that you can stretch the dough . It 's a completely non-exact test . It 's just to ballpark if there is ' enough ' gluten . By leaving it alone for 10 minutes or more , the gluten has relaxed and can be stretched to form the window pane . This relaxing is the same thing that you may need to do while forming your pizza . If you find that your pizza dough will stretch out some , and then pull back constantly - its good because you 've probably got enough gluten . Let it relax for several minutes and then pull it back - go too far and you 'll likely accidentally form a window pane ! Enough gluten means that you 've formed an efficent ' net ' of gluten that will trap gases from the yeast and also provide some ' chew ' . You 'll get better rise and your bread will have a better crumb . Yeast breads without much gluten development are often denser . When hand kneading , an <URL> will also help ( well , it always helps , just especially when you have to do the work manually ) . By giving the dough a short rest after initial mixing , you let the dough fully hydrate and some gluten will start to form on its own . When you come back to knead the dough , you should find the dough more workable and a little easier to get to the ' kneaded ' point . What 's going on with ' relaxing ' gluten ? Kneading forms gluten , but it often also tangles them up a bit . <URL> and will pull out into long strands easier .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
It is traditionally served with coffee when getting together with friends for coffee ; kind of like tea-cakes are served at tea-time .
I generally put garlic , rosemary , and thyme in the pan for a roast . As the meat juices and butter flow into the pan , they make a wonderful infusion of flavour that is well worth bathing the roast in . I 'm all for it - I feel the roasts I 've made and basted are better than the ones I did n't baste . That said , I have n't done any double-blind studies .
Dude you said you have cast iron . Cast iron rules . And it performs very well in the oven . No contest against glass and you can make pan sauce on the stove-top after the roasting is finished . My favorite pan to make roast chicken with is my 12 " Lodge cast iron skillet . Glass is probably better at roasting than cheap cookie style sheets , because it keeps the heat distribution fairly smooth . But glass will not hold up well to heavy roasting use and will eventually ruin your dinner when it cracks or shatters . All Clad makes a great roasting pan with wire rack . But for most roasting a simple cast iron skillet works well and is indestructible .
In the <URL> , Madhur says one of the few uses she 's found for a plain microwave oven is to roast cashews . She dresses them in a little bit of oil , then spreads them out on a plate in a single layer and cooks them in the microwave oven until they turn brown . I assume dressing them in a little bit of oil helps browning . I found <URL> for cashews and other nuts , but which implies the oil contained in the nuts themselves is enough to get them to brown . And finally , about.com has a page which is specifically about <URL> .
If it 's been fully cured ( smoked , then hung for a few months ) , it likely just needs to be warmed through for serving ( or even just sliced ) . If it 's soft , you might need to cook it , and then you could roast it in the oven ... a crock pot might be okay ; it 's hard to say without having seen it . But if it 's quite firm , I 'd likely just slice pieces off like you might other dry cured hams like <URL> , <URL> , jamón or <URL> . If it 's heavily salted , I 'd be more likely to use it as a flavoring than a meat -- cut off bits , and add to vegetable dishes when cooking . It goes great with dark greens or in bean dishes . ( I just had an excellent bean &amp; ham soup last night at a meeting that a few of us treat as a pot-luck )
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
Having just returned from Hawaii , I actually have a possible answer for you . There is a type of ginger that you can get there ( though it 's not all that common , far as I could tell ) that 's called blue ginger . It 's just like regular ginger , only it has the blue layer inside as you describe . There was a guy selling it at a roadside fruit stand when we were there . It should be absolutely safe to use . edit : I found a link to somebody talking about it . <URL>
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
Sure , but the rest of the onion gets mushy and unpalatable after they 've grown for a bit . Some people eat the sprouts ; they have a lot of protein , so they 're popular with vegans and other protein challenged groups .
end question
start question
Does Domino 's use rennet-free cheese ?
According to the <URL> Domino 's uses a blend of Mozzarella , American , Cheddar , Feta , Parmesan , and Provolone Cheeses . Somebody , apparently , with similar concerns asked Domino 's and <URL> : excerpt from letter , emphasis added : Domino 's Pizza Diced Cheese for Pizza is a specially produced cheese made exclusively for our use . It is a natural dairy product , produced from cultured , pasteurized milk , rennet ; and salts of calcium and/or sodium . The type of rennet used in the production of this cheese is restricted to a microbial-based rennet or a genetically-engineered rennet . Animal derived rennets will not be allowed . As far as the other cheeses ( Cheddar , Parmesan , Provolone , etc. ) , Domino 's does not specify the source of rennet used in these products . They may or may not contain animal rennet . This depends on the supplier 's current source and is always subject to change without notification to Domino 's Pizza .
True free range eggs are noticeably different in terms of yolk colour ( a much deeper yellow ) and taste . Free range chickens are allowed to supplement their diets with naturally found grubs , inscets etc. . You might find this of interest : <URL>
You can learn a lot from the rind of a cheese . <URL> There are three types of rind : Bloomy , washed , and natural . While I do n't think it is technically a rind I would also list waxed as a category . Bloomy rinds are formed when molds and such that grew during the cheese aging are smashed flat . Usually such cheeses will have unique textures because of the action of the mold . Think of the creaminess of brie as an example . The rind is edible if it is in good condition . Washed - the cheese is wiped with vinegar or similar while it ages . Natural - The top layer of the cheese is allowed to dry as the cheese ages . Parmesan is a good example of this . Waxed - Wax is applied to inhibit drying and mold growth . It is common with many semi firm to firm cheeses and does n't tell you much except the favorite color of the cheese marketing people . Cheddar is almost always waxed . Some cheeses do n't have a rind at all - this generally means that they were n't aged . Cream cheese , queso fresco are examples . Mozarella and feta are both brined and so do n't have rinds . Of course - it is a good thing when you can see any rind at all as odds are good that the cheese was n't mass produced for an undiscriminating clientele .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
I 'm a coeliac from Australia and so my tips come from my experience here , but they should hopefully be useful regardless . The first thing I suggest is joining your local society which can be invaluable in terms of support , information and even training . The training covers for example how to read ingredient lists to determine whether something is gluten free by ingredient . As a general rule you need to avoid products containing [ wheat , barley , rye , malts and triticale ] [ 1 ] . There are a few exceptions such as glucose syrup , caramel colour and dextrose derived from wheat where the ingredients are so highly processed that they contain no detectable [ gluten ] [ 2 ] . Cross contamination and hidden sources of gluten can make it hard to ensure a gluten free diet . In my experience the hardest replacements are the bread based ones . They generally do not come close to the texture and taste of traditional breads . Baking your own bread may be the best option using gluten free bread mixes . Eating out can become a bit of chore because many restaurants use gluten containing products such as sauces and fillers . I recommend contacting the restaurant beforehand . The following products are some of the better gluten free alternatives I 've found ( could n't post links because I do n't have enough rep ) : Zehnder Bread San Remo Pasta BuonTempo Pasta Schar Products Neumarkter Lammsbräu beer References : [ 1 ] <URL> [ 2 ] <URL>
Structure is the main reason a tube pan is used for angel food cake . Angel food cake rises a lot , but does not have much of any gluten network or other means of supporting this structure . The egg whites can hold the air bubbles initially , but will lose them eventually . ( Hence you should not delay baking after the batter is mixed , and you should treat the batter gently , spooning into the pan and taking care to not slam the pan around . ) The tube pan helps because as the batter rises , it can " climb " the pan , sticking to the edges . This is also why angel food cake is left to cool upside-down in the pan for an unusually long time ; it should not be removed from the pan until it is completely set . If it were n't for the tube , the center of the cake would not have anything strong to hold it up , so it would collapse . This is not an issue for cupcakes because they are so small .
In Europe at least , the rules on advertising say : " for a product to be able to make a claim that it was low in saturated fat under EU Regulation 1924/2006 on Nutrition and Health Claims Made on Foods , it should contain no more than 1.5 g of saturated fat per 100 g of solids " ( from the <URL> )
While I found many references to Chinese egg noodles , I did not find much information on Japanese egg noodles . Digging into the edit history of your question , it appears that the actual product you would like to substitute for is <URL> . Their website is parsimonious with information , but does call the product vermicelli , and only indicates that they are made with wheat , and does not mention egg . <URL> , a producer of Asian ingredients for the US market , suggests using suggests substituting Italian style fettuccine or spaghetti for Chinese egg noodles . Putting this all together , you should be able to substitute dried Italian vermicelli , spaghetti , fettuccine or angel hair in the your recipe with good results . Check the package to ensure that the ingredients are only semolina ( and water ) , as some Italian pastas are made with egg ( this is most likely with the fettuccine shape ) . Any non-egg based semolina pasta will be completely cholesterol free . See also : <URL> from Recipe Tips .
Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking , is very detailed in his explanation of how cheese " works " . He describes three stages . In the first stage , lactic acid bacteria convert milk sugar into lactic acid . In the second stage , which overlaps with the first one , rennet ( an extract of calf stomach - or , to be more precise , chymosin , a protein found in this extract and now also obtainable from yeasts and the like ) curdles the casein proteins and watery whey is drained from the concentrated curds . And finally , in the third stage , the cheese ripens , and a whole host of different enzymes do all sorts of things to flavour and texture . According to McGee , Acid and Rennet form very different kinds of curd structures -- acid a fine , fragile gel , rennet a coarse but robust , rubbery one -- so their relative contributions , and how quickly they act , help determine the ultimate texture of the cheese . He goes on to describe how mostly acid coagulation leads to softer cheeses and mostly rennet-based coagulation leads to firmer curds and harder cheeses . Draining of the whey also strongly affects the final texture , as Sobachatina points out in <URL> . Pressing firmly expels much whey and thus leads to a harder cheese ; softer cheeses are just allowed to drain some whey by gravity . But there 's another important factor here : heat . Some cheeses are " cooked " in their whey at this stage , to a temperature as high as 55C ( 130F ) for a rock-hard Parmesan or about 38C ( 100F ) for a somewhat softer Tommes , and this expels even more whey from the curd particles ( and , of course , also affects flavour ) . At this stage , salt is also added . Salt draws some moisture out of the curds as well and is a catalyst for the denaturing of casein , thus reinforcing the protein structure . McGee also discusses aging of cheese at some length , but he does n't really touch on the effect of aging on the structure of cheese . That effect is certainly there ; a very young Gouda cheese is almost as soft as a Camembert , whereas a very old one gets close to Parmesan hardness ( if it does n't crumble to dust ) . I imagine that this is due to some moisture escaping the cheese , but also due to the fact that the protein networks keep growing more and more interconnected as the cheese ripens .
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
Obviously , this will depend on your personal preferences and how you brew the coffee . The canonical measurement is about 2 tablespoons of coffee per 6 ounce cup , or about 2 3/4 cups of ground coffee per gallon of water . Typical ratios for cold brew coffee , such as suggested <URL> are 1.75 cups of coffee to 3 1/2 cups of water for the concentrate , which would then be diluted by a like amount of water for drinking . That is a ratio of 1.75 cups of coffee to 7 cups of water , or about 3 3/4 cups of coffee per gallon of water ( I am generously assuming the ratio is based on measuring cups , not " coffee " cups ) . So the cold brewing method uses about 1.35 times more beans than the traditional methods . You will have to decide if you prefer the flavor of the cold brewed coffee enough to justify the increased amount of beans required . As to whether you can produce enough , that depends on what equipment you have , how much trouble you are willing to go to , and how much storage space you have . There is nothing about cold brewed coffee that would prevent you from producing the concentrate in large quantities . At the volume you specify ( assuming you mean a 6 ounce " coffee " cup , and it is three cups between the two of you ) , you would need about 45 ounces of concentrate for a week , which is about 1.5 quarts ( or liters ) . See also : <URL> Concentrate should easily last you throughout a week , if you have room to store it .
Real cheese crackers are always going to be a little greasy . You can reduce this by using a lower fat cheese like mozzarella . I think you 'd benefit by adding some flour to absorb some of the oil . Try starting with a 1/4 to 1/3 ratio of flour to cheese . From what I understand , whole wheat , whole grain , and oat flour are much more friendly to diabetics . You could even try something exotic like mesquite or yellow pea flour .
One thing you also might want to consider when making pickles is the process of heating versus not . I recently learned that the crispy store bought pickles are pickled at low temps ( my preferred method ) , where as softer pickles were most likely heated first . Not sure which method you are using , but this may help as you move forward . My step-mother recently made some awesome pickles with chilies and dill and garlic but heated them first in the canning process and they turned out a bit too soft for my liking . Regarding salt ... I happen to agree with Adam 's comment on the brine . I usually confirm salt is dissolved before it goes into the pickling solution , so it 's not a problem . In that respect , a good quality salt , regardless of shape and size should be used ( feel free to grind it in a mortar with a pestle if you think it should be finer ) . I happen to use coarse Kosher from Morton for most things ...
Honey is your real binding agent here , not maple syrup . You can substitute the sugar-free syrup but be aware of what 's in it - according to the ingredients , it 's mostly <URL> , which is both a <URL> and a laxative . Now , ordinarily , I would n't tell people to worry about the digestive effects of sorbitol , but that 's a seriously large quantity you 'd be adding , so if any of you have sensitive stomachs , beware of eating too much of that trail mix at once . The other property - humectancy - means that what you end up with is going to be moister than what you 'd get with pure maple syrup . That may or may not be a good thing depending on your tastes . Since your issue seems to be a lack of availability rather than a problem with sugar itself , I 'd personally substitute generic pancake syrup , sugar syrup or even corn syrup instead . Or , if you 're really keen on the sugar-free stuff , you can use less of it and add more honey because the sorbitol will help keep the whole product moist . If you really want to cut down on the sugar , you can also use agave nectar , which is a fairly close substitute for honey ( a bit thinner ) , and could also stand in for maple syrup if used in combination with another syrup and perhaps some maple extract or maple flavouring . It wo n't be the same flavour , but , texture-wise , it should be a pretty close match .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
Properly wrapped , the extra insulation would not have been the cause of higher than normal ice formation ( freezer burn ) . What I suspect might have happened here is that putting it outside in the cold caused all of the steam to condense on the surface of your mac &amp; cheese , resulting in you bagging damper than usual mac &amp; cheese .
They all seem to use different cheeses depending on the brand . The most consistent cheese is definitely mozzarella , which makes sense as it 's the default cheese on most pizzas . Second to that is some sort of hard grating cheese like Parmesan or Asiago ... which also makes sense as it 's a traditional pizza condiment . Other Italian cheeses also seem popular like fontina and provolone But non-Italian cheeses like cheddar certainly show up . Below are some examples . I do n't recommend any of these products , they just came up in web searches and specifically describe which four cheeses they use . Amy 's uses : Fontina , provolone , Parmesan , mozzarella : <URL> Frontera uses : Mozzarella , white cheddar , smoked provolone , asiago . <URL> California Pizza Kitchen uses : Mozzarella ( apparently more than one kind ) , fontina , gouda <URL> Lean Cuisine uses : low fat mozzarella , Parmesan , asiago , romano <URL>
According to <URL> , cream cheese , opened should last about two weeks between 32 ' f and 40 ' f. For the cheese itself , unopened , they recommend to " Use within one week of the ' best when purchased by ' date " . Unfortunately , in this situation , you can not simply cut away the mold from the cheese since it is a mixed dish . When you factor in the fact that the cheese was not only unwrapped , but heated along with other components , and likely sat out for some time on the counter in addition to in the pan , with added protein ( the black beans especially ) , the math for how long cream cheese can last in your fridge shrinks and shrinks . Personally , I would follow the cooked meat guidelines to be on the safe side . This means that well-wrapped leftovers , quickly taken out of the danger zone range of temps ( <URL> ) , should last for 3-4 days after cooking .
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
Candle wax and cheese wax are quite different . Candle wax is very stiff . If it were flexible , you 'd get bendy candles . Cheese wax has additional ingredients to keep it <URL> and prevent it from becoming brittle : This wax is pliable and will not become brittle as will pure paraffin wax . It also has food-grade dyes . Remember that candle wax is generally not designed to touch food . As to brining . The instructions on the About Waxing tab mentions that it 's important to clean cheese before waxing to prevent mold growth : Before the cheese can be waxed , the mold needs to be removed . This can be done with a brine wash or vinegar wash . Both high acid and high salt will discourage mold from growing . I prefer the brine wash with ~ 1 tsp salt to a cup of cool water . As you can see in the photos , the mold wipes away easily . Photo at left shows the clean cheese ready for waxing . The cheese will dry and be ready for waxing in an hour or two .
end question
start question
What is the secret behind " always soft " ice cream ?
The softness of ice cream is going to depend on a variety of factors : Use of gums and other binding agents , amount of sugar , the amount of fat , and especially the amount of " overrun " ( air ) that is churned into it during the freezing process . Less expensive ice creams will usually have a softer " chewier " texture than premium ice creams due to more gums and a great amount of air being churned into it to increase volume . More air = more volume = more yield for the same amount of ingredients used .
There are cultured soy and coconut milk products ( generally sold with yogurt ) which can be used as a sour cream substitute ; it 's frequently advisable to add a little extra vinegar or lemon juice as these products do n't generally provide as much kick as real sour cream .
Since you say French-style ice cream works fine , but the gelato is freezing rock hard , I suspect the problem may simply be the serving temperature . Gelato needs to be served at a warmer temperature than ice cream . Unfortunately the temperatures I 've found are pretty variable ( some say 5F , some say 10-20F ) , but everyone consistently says gelato needs a higher temperature than ice cream . So just try taking it out of the freezer 15 minutes before you want to serve . If you do n't want to do that , then actual gelato recipes probably wo n't work well , and you 'll have to modify them . You can try some of the usual tricks for softening ice cream : <URL> . But keep in mind that they may cause you to stray a bit from the original gelato flavor or texture !
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
At least in the U.S. , there is no legal requirement to list " live cultures " or whatever on food labels . Short of contacting the manufacturer , there 's no way to know for certain whether or not it may contain live cultures . Kimchi , like sauerkraut and similar cultured foods , will continue to ferment and change flavor and texture if it has live cultures . Thus , if a manufacturer wants to ensure a more stable product and longer shelf life , they may heat treat ( or otherwise process ) the food to destroy active bacteria before shipping the product to consumers . On the other hand , since many people have become interested in " live culture " fermented foods in recent years , manufacturers usually go out of their way to point out when they do maintain live cultures . I 'd therefore say it 's likely that at least large manufacturers will advertise their " live cultures " if present . If there 's no such description on the product or on the manufacturer 's website , it 's more likely ( though not certain ) that the product has been treated in some way to extend shelf life and does not contain live bacteria . For smaller and/or local producers , you probably will need to ask directly about their processing .
Well , yes and no . A lot of recipes for semifreddo are n't truly semifreddo because they are hard frozen . Recipes like that can be fried just like ice cream . The key to fried ice cream is to hard freeze the scoops of ice cream . By definition , that is n't semifreddo , but definitions do n't seem to matter much to writers of recipes . So , if the " stuff " is hard frozen , it can be coated and fried like fried ice cream . Perhaps after being deep fried , the name " semifreddo " is more apropos .
The ideal temperature for whipping cream is between 35 degrees F and 50 degrees F ( 1 2/3 degrees C to 10 degrees C ) . In order to maintain this temperature , you may want to chill your bowl and beaters in your fridge until cold , but you should be able to whip cream just fine as long as you do not let it rest once you remove it from the fridge . Above 50 degrees F ( 10 degrees C ) you wo n't be able to whip your cream .
There actually does n't seem to be a special word for this as a technique - as common as it is ( to add an egg to the top of a dish and use the runny yolk as sauce ) , it is usually just the dish name " topped with an egg " or " topped with a fried egg " . Sometimes the egg is fried , occasioanlly poached , sometimes it is cracked on top of the dish and cooked in the residual heat - the goal of having the yolk serve as sauce remains the same , though . Some dish variations specify the egg on top - in some south American countries , a steak topped with an egg is called a " <URL> " or riding steak . I have heard of pancakes topped with a fried egg being called a " texas one-eye " , though i ca n't find a citation just now . Pasta with a raw egg added , which is supposed to be cooked in the residual heat and make a sauce of the yolk - is pasta " <URL> " . Its a little funny , but as common as it is to find a dish with topped with an egg , so the yolk will double as sauce - it does n't seem to have a name more specific . ( And it is really common , all sorts of cultures have <URL> ) . You can say " topped with an egg " , or use ElendilTheTall or ESultanik 's suggestions for how to specify the soft-cooked nature of the fried egg , and people will probably understand you . Edit : with the help of some comments from Andrew Mattson , Relaxed , and Chuu , we now have a potential term : steak " Au Cheval " ( French ) or beef " a cavalo " ( south American ) means a steak with an egg on top . The words look similar-ish enough to seem related in word appearance and meaning , yet from two different countries - which translate the term to horse riding or horseback steak , meaning the egg is on top of the dish . So with that commonality , we might take the term " Au Cheval " and take it to mean when an egg is laid on top of , or " riding " the dish . As a term it wo n't be too well known right now , someone may not be understood if you just ask for a sandwich or veggie hash " au cheval " ... but if enough people see this definition , or start using it , it may become the official term for the cooking technique !
The crusting is important so that any flowers or other intricate decorations will fix their shape and not slump when left out in warmer temperatures . ( you do n't want to refrigerate iced cakes , as when you remove them from the fridge , you 'll get condensation ) . An icing that crusts quickly means that you can use an icing that 's not quite as stiff for your decorations , and after a few hours of decorating , you 'll come to appreciate that minor difference . The crust is also a benefit when trying to get a <URL> . Some other recipes will crust over time , and <URL> uses more powdered sugar and cream of tartar , but no merangue powder . I suspect it 's the starch in the powdered sugar that ensures that it still crusts up . As for shelf life ... I 'm not 100 % sure . I believe that the eggwhites have been pasteurized , and I 've made flowers , let them dry out , then kept them stored for months at a time ... but I ca n't remember if those were made with merengue powder or not . I suspect that some batches were .
It means the butter is made from cream that has n't been fermented . Butter made from fermented cream is known as " cultured cream butter " , and it has distinct sour , lactic acid notes . Sweet cream butter tastes , well , sweet , and if it is from really good fresh milk you may be able to taste grassy notes . Both are good in their own way .
Soft serve ice cream is soft because : It 's warmer than hard ice cream . According to <URL> , it 's generally made at about -4 C , rather than -15 C for hard ice cream . It 's also served at a higher temperature -- <URL> , compared to 5 to 7 degrees F for hard ice cream . It contains more air . The technical term for air introduced during freezing is <URL> , and it 's calculated based on the percent increase in volume of the ice cream . The more air , the fluffier and softer the mouth-feel . It usually contains <URL> than hard ice cream , which is mitigated by the soft creamy mouth-feel resulting from the warmer temperature . If you were to freeze soft ice cream , you 'd lose the advantage of item 1 . In addition , your freezer takes longer to freeze ice cream than an ice cream maker , which may result in ice crystals in the ice cream . Furthermore , once the soft ice cream chills to the freezer temperature ( usually around 0F ) , the lower fat content may decrease the perceived creaminess , because of the information in item 3 . Of course , having said all of that , I have n't tried the experiment , so I 'd be interested in hearing first hand stories .
Probably the easiest way to do it is to just gently pour the blackberries into a basket strainer , then lower the strainer into a bowl of water . Then you can just lift the strainer out and the berries will come with it , no fishing required .
As someone who uses liquid nitrogen as part of their daily routine ( in a lab ) and who has made liquid nitrogen ice cream on several occasions , my advice would be to not use a plastic container to hold liquid nitrogen unless it 's designed to . Yes , the plastic vessel may become brittle and may fracture . I have seen some materials shatter with extreme violence when frozen with liquid nitrogen ; do not attempt this . Vessels for handling cryogenic liquids are designed especially for the job , and made from materials such as stainless steel , styrofoam , teflon , HDPE or silvered borosilicate glass . Unless you know with certainty that your container is designed to withstand temperatures of -196 & deg ; C ( -321 & deg ; F ) , do not attempt this procedure .
tl ; dr Either way is fine . When making ice cream - your quest is to bind up water . Water crystallizes and makes ice cream icy instead of creamy . There are a lot of ways to keep water from freezing in ice cream from reducing the volume of water in the mix , to using natural antifreezes , to binding the water up with gums or starches . Sugar loves water . The water will eagerly hook up with sugar and wo n't be able to freeze . If you macerate your cherries two things will happen - 1 - Water will be drawn out of the cherries and 2 - The water that is left in them will be saturated with sugar and slower to freeze . The result is that the cherries will be softer , sweeter ( of course ) , be slightly more concentrated , and not freeze solid . If you do n't macerate them then they will be little chunks for cherry ice . Both ways are perfectly tasty and I 've had ice creams that do it either way . It just depends what you want to make .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
Oil or fat is absolutely not necessary to cook rice . I suspect you may have been taught the pilaf method where the rice is first sauteed in oil or butter , and then liquid is added and the rice is fully cooked . The purpose of the pilaf method is to add depth of flavor . When making pilafs , additional herbs , spices , or aromatics ( such as onions ) are often included . If you have been taught to add oil without the sauteeing , then the only purpose of it would be to add flavor . It wo n't really help prevent sticking , and is n't needed for the rice to cook properly . There are many methods to cook rice in addition to the pilaf method , and many to do not require any fat . Simply boiling or steaming in water is completely traditional in many Asian cuisines . In some cuisines , the crusty rice that sticks to the bottom of the pot or rice cooker is actually highly prized ( see Wikipedia 's <URL> article ) . You can mitigate the crusting of the rice by making sure to use the lowest flame or heat setting that will keep the rice steaming . I actually prefer to put the whole pot in a moderate oven , rather than do it on the stove top . You can also use the pasta method of simply boiling the rice in water , and then draining it when it is done to your liking , to completely avoid the crust . This will result in less sticky rice since the surface starches will be left in the boiling water . I understand this method is popular in some parts of India and Pakistan .
I usually freeze mozzarella and then grate it ( longer the better , unless you are in a hurry , then 20 minutes or so works OK ) . This works very well . Other soft cheeses , such as those meant to be eaten at room temp , brie , for example , I would n't freeze ... Of course , I do n't think many of us are grating brie anyway .
Thinking about this from first principles , a banana is about : 75 % water 20 % carbohydrates ( mostly sugar and a small amount of starch ) Less than 5 % combined fiber and protein Trace amount of fat ( generally considered to be zero ) . The anti-crystallization effect of guar gum works on the water component , so adding a small amount of guar gum actually should be of some benefit . The hard part is getting it all dispersed ; you do n't want to over-process the banana ( you 'd lose the creaminess ) but you also need to hydrate the guar gum in order for it to work its magic . You also need to avoid over-thickening , which might be difficult even with the very small starch content in a typical banana . Bananas convert more starch to sugar as they ripen , so I suspect you 'd have more success trying this on very ripe bananas that are , essentially , little more than sugar and water to begin with . Incorporating and maintaining air is something that I just do n't think you 're going to be able to do . Proteins and fats can both participate in foaming ( egg whites being an example of the former , and heavy cream being the canonical example of the latter ) , but bananas have neither of those . There 's simply nothing to whip , and thus nothing to stabilize , so neither xanthan gum nor any other emulsifier/stabilizer is going to do you much good here . If you really want to incorporate air then you 're going to need more than one ingredient . My instinct would be to say coconut milk , which has relatively high fat and pairs well with banana ( and obviously is also vegan / non-dairy ) , but I can say from experience now that coconut milk just does n't have enough fat . You could try cooking it down first to get the fat ratio up , or using coconut oil , but I 'm not sure how it would taste . Traditional ice cream is about 60 % water , which means the amount of guar gum that most people seem to get the best results with ( about 1 tsp/qt ) is about 0.87 % of the total water . For a small ( 100 g ) banana , that 's about 75 mL of water corresponding to very close to 1/8 tsp of guar gum . So , I 'd give this a try with 1/8 tsp of guar gum , forget the xanthan gum . Try adding it after you 've frozen the banana for the first time , when you first pop it into the blender . No guarantees , but , you can probably afford to waste one banana in the attempt . Update : I thought I 'd give this a try myself since ( a ) it seemed pretty easy and ( b ) I can always use more non-dairy dessert recipes . Here 's how it came out with 1/4 tsp of guar gum for 2 bananas , after being frozen for two days : You can see that ice crystal formation is pretty minimal , and although some parts did harden a bit ( much like ordinary homemade ice cream with low overrun ) , they returned to normal consistency within just a few minutes . Of course it still tastes like frozen bananas , so if I were to do this again I think I 'd probably try adding a few other flavours . Also note that even though the texture is decent , the colour is getting dark , and I have no doubt that this would eventually turn black after enough time in the freezer - and the lemon juice trick does n't really work so well when the whole thing has been blended up .
end question
start question
Is there such a thing as " sweet " carrots ?
There are varieties of carrots that have been bred for extra sugar , but you wo n't find them in your typical grocery store . Most of the grocery store carrots have been bred for color , shape , production and storage . In grocery stores that sell loose carrots , you can sometimes find ' winter carrots ' . They 're quite large ( nearly 2 " / 5cm across ) . These are carrots that have been left in the ground over the winter -- they are typically much sweeter than carrots that are taken out of the ground in warmer weather . I have seen larger carrots at the latin markets and restaurant supply stores near me , but I 've never done side-by-side taste tests to confirm if these are sweeter than standard grocery store carrots . There are also seed companies ( eg , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) who sell varieties bred specifically for their sugar content , much like what 's being done with corn . If you grow your own , you can seek these out , or you can check to see if any of the farmer 's markets near you carry them . Much like heirloom tomatoes , they 're often a bit stranger in color and shape than what you get in the grocery stores -- they might be short and stubby , or have a dramatic taper that is n't useful to make ' baby carrots ' )
MSG is the primary ingredient in Accent . The full ingredient list for Accent " original flavor " is as follows : Monosodium Glutamate , Salt , Chili Pepper , Tricalcium Phosphate ( As Anticaking Agent ) , Spice ( Cumin , Oregano ) , Paprika Extractives ( color ) , Garlic Extractives , Onion Extractives , Yellow No. 6 Lake , Yellow No. 5 Lake .
Donuts are a deep fried food . The texture of deep fried food is unique and can not be duplicated by other methods . If you bake doughnut dough , you will get small rolls , which will have a similar aroma , but not the same combination of moist , soft inside and fat-crispy outside . You could bake it , as with any other yeast dough , only nobody will recognize it as a donut . Assuming that you want to get actual donuts , you must fry them . And no matter what you do to them , the more oil you use to fry them , the better your donuts will turn out . The physics of deep frying include throwing pieces of food with a starchy surface ( potatoes , or breaded items , or dough pieces like donuts ) in oil at around 190 degrees Celsius . At this temperature , the outer surface of the dough/vegetable/breading crisps immediately , preventing from any oil getting into the item and any vapor getting out of the item . This only works when the oil in the vicinity of the fried item stays within a few degrees of the target temperature during the first ~ 30 seconds of the frying process . Which means that you need a stable temperature in your fryer . Now , thermodynamics tells us that , if you throw a 25 degrees piece of food into a puddle of 190 degrees hot oil , they will exchange warmth proportionally to their mass . So , if you want the oil to stay close to the correct temperature , the mass of the donut has to be very small in comparison to the mass of the oil -- which means that you need lots of oil . The options you have to do with less oil are all unsatisfactory from my point of view , you might decide to pick one of them . Put up with the quality reduction . Use less oil in the pan , maybe even shallow frying in oil up to the half of the donut only . The donuts will lose moisture and soak up grease . The less oil you use , the worse the grease soak will be . Also , you will use up more oil , because you will have to constantly add the amount soaked up by the already fried donuts . You may consider it well used instead of wasted , because you get to eat it , but from my point of view this is the worst option . Trade time for oil . You can use a small pot , and fry a single donut at a time . Frying 50 g donuts should go well with under 500 ml oil . You are still a bit constrained by the fact that the oil temperature will fluctuate more due to factors not related to the oil , but it should be manageable , if you have the patience . Note that if you place multiple donuts in the small pan , you are getting towards the first or third solution . Try to manage a stable temperature in a donut-crowded small pan by using a very hot setting and letting the oil get too hot before adding a new donut . This is a very complicated thing to manage , especially seeing that you are trying to not burn the other donuts in the pan at the same time . I do n't think I could manage it , and if I could , the oil would n't be worth the stress . There is also the extra energy to consider -- not as expensive as throwing out more oil , but probably worse from an environmental point of view . In the end , if you want good donuts , you have to use a pot/fryer where they can swim freely in oil . Any change you make to this setup reduces the quality of your donut , making it less donut-like .
Well , if you really want a " definitive " way to measure when lactic fermentation is complete , you 'd have to do a laboratory test directly for residual sugars . Most traditional foods that are lactic-acid fermented do n't have enough sugar to reach a final acidity that will self-limit continued fermentation by killing all the bacteria . ( Foods with too much sugar also often tend to spontaneously undergo yeast fermentation and lead to alcohol production instead if not monitored . ) Given the wide variety of fermentation products that can result from initial ingredients and different fermentation conditions , it 's really difficult to come up with some sort of " test strip " or something for residual sugar that is accurate . Home fermenters rarely bother with such things , but large-scale commercial fermentation sometimes tests residual sugar content for batches to ensure shelf-stability . That said , a specific recipe with specific starting ingredients will often have a target pH range , depending on the quantity of sugar in the ingredients , the amount of salt ( which in excess will inhibit further fermentation ) , desired flavor , etc. . The composition of the ingredients will determine the mininum possible pH when fermentation is effectively complete . The desired pH of lacto-fermented foods can vary anywhere from about 3.0 ( even down to ~ 2.75 for some sweet relishes ) to 4.5 ( more common in grain-based ferments , or quick-fermented vegetables meant to be used up quickly ) . To answer the specific question for sauerkraut , I 'd say most people would say sauerkraut fermentation is " complete " when a pH of ~ 3.5 or below is reached ( though opinions may vary ) . Part of the difficulty in answering the question is that home fermentation is often done with the intention of keeping the food " alive " even when it is consumed , which means fermentation will still be ongoing . In most traditional food cultures around the word , lactic acid fermentation is often deliberately incomplete , only used for a short period to transform an ingredient and then use it within a dish for consumption . This contrasts with much alcohol production , where continued fermentation in your final product can obviously create various difficulties for bottling , proper aging , etc. . And some people just prefer food at various earlier stages in the fermentation process . To take sauerkraut as an example , a pH of 4.0-4 .5 will be achieved rather quickly ( usually within a few days , depending on temperature , salt content , etc. ) . Some people prefer the taste of a fresher , crunchier product , and they may only ferment for a few days and then refrigerate to slow down fermentation significantly . Other people like to go much further and will ferment sauerkraut anywhere from a month to several months , again depending on temperature -- to achieve a final pH below 3.5 and even down to ~ 3.0 . Over time , the final product will obviously get more sour , but it will also soften and various nutritional changes will take place . It 's all a matter of preference when done at home . Lastly , in reference to the " lagering " aspect of the question , I think the closest analog in lacto-fermentation is the fact that various processes ( and various bacteria ) will work better at different temperatures . A higher temperature fermentation , for example , may result in a greater acetic acid component in the final ingredients , enhancing the " sharp " vinegar notes . At lower temperatures other bacteria may become more prominent in the fermentation , and in some temperature ranges enzymes and natural ( spoilage ) reactions may help to change flavor and texture too . Anyhow , for these reasons , some people prefer to refrigerate fermented foods or hold them for a while at " cold cellar " temperatures to allow these " aging " mechanisms to work as bacteria slow down ( analogous to lagering ) . Whether this is done after fermentation is effectively complete or at an earlier stage when the food is less sour again depends on individual preference .
The person who wrote <URL> , agrees with you on the 80-100 ° part . However , in his salmon recipe , he advices to smoke below 85 ° . So my guess is that it depends on the food you 're smoking .
If your carrots are going soft after just a few days , you 're not storing them properly . Mine keep for weeks and weeks . I leave them in the plastic bag , and keep that in one of the vegetable drawers in my fridge . How are you storing yours ? A rubbery soft carrot is n't bad for you , it just is n't very pleasant . A slimy carrot is bad for you , do n't eat it .
Agaricus bisporus is commonly found in two varieties a brown and a white variety both of them have a variety of aliases as you have already found out ... and the name portobella is used for mature fruiting bodies of both varieties . So you can find the brown variety in all sizes from tiny " button " mushrooms over closed and open small and big non-mature fruiting bodies to the big open mature portobellos . The brown-capped variety will be ( at least somewhat ) brown through all stages and the white-capped one will have a white cap through all stages . While maturing the gills will turn from white to brown in all varieties , as brown is the color of mature spores in this mushroom species . Anyway , your assumption is correct - that the chestnut mushroom is in fact a baby ( = immature fruiting body ) brown-capped portobello mushroom .
According to <URL> , the main reason is that in raw packing , more air is introduced into the jar . This may lead to discoloration over time , which is an aesthetic issue , rather than a safety issue . Regarding hot packing , they describe the benefits : This practice helps to remove air from food tissues , shrinks food , helps keep the food from floating in the jars , increases vacuum in sealed jars , and improves shelf life . Preshrinking food also permits filling more food into each jar . They provide the following guidelines regarding which method to use : Use the hot-pack method , especially with acid foods to be processed in boiling water rather than a pressure canning method . The Raw pack method is fine for pickles and for vegetables to be processed in a pressure canner . See also : <URL> describing the differences , benefits , and reasoning in great detail .
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
Coupling design matters more than material . If you make your coupling short and thin , concentrating all the force in a small area , it will strip even it 's metal . Conversely , a well-designed coupling is longer , so the strain is spread over a large area . I have a Cuisinart CSB-76 hand ( immersion ) blender , and it has handled ice numerous times without any problems . It has a plastic coupling , but it is a good 3 cm long to spread out the force over more material . If I recall correctly , the professional-grade Vitamix blender also uses a plastic coupling , but with careful engineering to prevent problems . It is now common to advertise kitchen appliances based on their motor 's power ( 700 watts in this case ) , but many of these appliances will have mechanical failures if called on to deliver that much power . I suspect that you 'd be better served to look for a lower-power blender from a reputable brand with good consumer reviews . I do n't think the professional-grade immersion blenders I 've used in restaurant kitchens are rated to more than 400 watts . Personally , I recommend the Cuisinart CSB-76 , and have never had a case where I needed more than its 200W .
I do n't know that you 'd want to make a full meal of it , but it sounds like you 'd enjoy nutritional yeast . You can find it at any " health food store " type of grocery . It is deactivated , so you do n't need to worry about it filling you up with CO2 . The flavor is somewhat reminiscent of Parmesan cheese . Googling " nutritional yeast recipes " will give you plenty of ideas for what to do with it .
While I found many references to Chinese egg noodles , I did not find much information on Japanese egg noodles . Digging into the edit history of your question , it appears that the actual product you would like to substitute for is <URL> . Their website is parsimonious with information , but does call the product vermicelli , and only indicates that they are made with wheat , and does not mention egg . <URL> , a producer of Asian ingredients for the US market , suggests using suggests substituting Italian style fettuccine or spaghetti for Chinese egg noodles . Putting this all together , you should be able to substitute dried Italian vermicelli , spaghetti , fettuccine or angel hair in the your recipe with good results . Check the package to ensure that the ingredients are only semolina ( and water ) , as some Italian pastas are made with egg ( this is most likely with the fettuccine shape ) . Any non-egg based semolina pasta will be completely cholesterol free . See also : <URL> from Recipe Tips .
There are varieties of carrots that have been bred for extra sugar , but you wo n't find them in your typical grocery store . Most of the grocery store carrots have been bred for color , shape , production and storage . In grocery stores that sell loose carrots , you can sometimes find ' winter carrots ' . They 're quite large ( nearly 2 " / 5cm across ) . These are carrots that have been left in the ground over the winter -- they are typically much sweeter than carrots that are taken out of the ground in warmer weather . I have seen larger carrots at the latin markets and restaurant supply stores near me , but I 've never done side-by-side taste tests to confirm if these are sweeter than standard grocery store carrots . There are also seed companies ( eg , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) who sell varieties bred specifically for their sugar content , much like what 's being done with corn . If you grow your own , you can seek these out , or you can check to see if any of the farmer 's markets near you carry them . Much like heirloom tomatoes , they 're often a bit stranger in color and shape than what you get in the grocery stores -- they might be short and stubby , or have a dramatic taper that is n't useful to make ' baby carrots ' )
Store them in the bag in your fridge . Also , if you take the greens off they will last longer . I keep mine in the drawer at the bottom .
Butter traditionally has salt in it as a preservative , mainly to stop bacterial growth on the residual whey , and to slow fat rancidity Modern butter has a much lower amount of salt than is required for shelf storage in the pre-electric era . Now we have refrigerators , salt is not required at such a high level Butter with no salt has nearly half of the shelf life of modern salted butter Processed sugar is a modern ingredient , and therefore there is no culture in having it in butter . Sweet yoghurt and milk are all " new " inventions Using salt as a preservative is as old as recorded history . Many cultures used salt to preserve fruits , as well as meats and vegetables
There certainly is such a thing as pork stock , it 's made the same way as beef and chicken stock - by cooking down bones to extract the flavors . With beef you use beef bones , with pork you use pork bones . Supermarkets stock the products that make economic sense , they do n't carry items which wo n't move - especially if they have a very limited shelf life . Beef , chicken and vegetable stocks are the most widely used ones in many parts of the world , so they will carry those as they have a good chance to be sold . Pork , lamb , and fish stocks can be found in supermarkets in areas where enough of the customer base will buy it . If you ca n't find it in your local supermarket then there may be specialty stores ( online or bricks and mortar ) which you could get it from . Butchers may carry it as well . If not then making stock is very simple , all you need is some bones , vegetables , a heat source and some time .
Candle wax and cheese wax are quite different . Candle wax is very stiff . If it were flexible , you 'd get bendy candles . Cheese wax has additional ingredients to keep it <URL> and prevent it from becoming brittle : This wax is pliable and will not become brittle as will pure paraffin wax . It also has food-grade dyes . Remember that candle wax is generally not designed to touch food . As to brining . The instructions on the About Waxing tab mentions that it 's important to clean cheese before waxing to prevent mold growth : Before the cheese can be waxed , the mold needs to be removed . This can be done with a brine wash or vinegar wash . Both high acid and high salt will discourage mold from growing . I prefer the brine wash with ~ 1 tsp salt to a cup of cool water . As you can see in the photos , the mold wipes away easily . Photo at left shows the clean cheese ready for waxing . The cheese will dry and be ready for waxing in an hour or two .
My guess is that you dropped 2lb of carrots into the water . This drops the water temperature under the boiling-simmering point . So , you 're not blanching correctly . You should have taken about 3/4lb portions and blanched them successively . ( Or you should have used more water on a bigger stove top . )
You want the ones that look like little tiny T-bone steaks . Typically they are called Lamb Chops , but look first as there are different cuts under that name . You might also consider doing a rack , which is the equivalent to a Rib Roast , but obviously much smaller . For the rack , I 'd sear it in a pan , and then broil it until done . ( 15-25 minutes , 140-160 degrees ) .
425 & deg ; F is so hot that it will surely burn over-do the outside of a ham before the inside will get warm . However , you can slice the ham then warm it for about 10 minutes . Slicing it will allow the whole slice to get warm , while not over-cooking the outside .
end question
start question
Is cooking with hydrogen peroxide an accepted practice ?
The <URL> offers the following information and advice : Use of Hydrogen Peroxide in Food Processing Because of its strong oxidising property , hydrogen peroxide is used as a bleaching agent in some foods such as wheat flour , edible oil , egg white etc. in countries like the US , Canada , Australia and New Zealand . It is also allowed to be used as an antimicrobial agent in food , e.g. milk , and as a sterilizing agent for food packaging materials . and Safety of Hydrogen Peroxide Oral ingestion of 3 % hydrogen peroxide solutions ( household strength ) generally does not result in severe toxicity but may result in vomiting , mild irritation to mucosa and burns in the mouth , throat , oesophagus and stomach . Ingestion of higher concentration , e.g. > 10 % , can result in more dangerous sequelae such as burns to mucus membranes and gut mucosa . Hydrogen peroxide is unstable and would decompose in contact with food and after cooking . and , finally , Advice to the Trade If hydrogen peroxide is used in processing food , only food grade hydrogen peroxide should be used in processing food . The amount of hydrogen peroxide to be used in food processing should be limited to the amount sufficient for the purpose . Appropriate measures should be taken to remove residual hydrogen peroxide from the finished products . Based on this information , it seems there is some precedent for using hydrogen peroxide in a cooking environment .
It 's feasible , but then you 'd better really like the taste of turpentine and have the courage to take a chance on ingesting it . Turpentine comes from the oils of pine and -- you guessed it -- spruce . I would n't recommend taking a chance on smoking anything using coniferous materials . If you 're in an area with spruce , then you probably have alder as well . There 's your viable alternative . Additional info : If you do n't have alder handy or you just dislike alder smoke , then wild hazelnut or wild applewood will work just as well . ( I use the applewood . ) If you do n't live where the trees are , most hardware stores that sell wood stove or pellet stove fuel will have wood chips made from hardwood trees . If you live anywhere near an orchard , take a drive to the country and ask a grower if you can buy or reserve some apple , cherry , or nut tree prunings . And finally , if you live in eastern North America , maple and butternut woods make excellent smoking materials .
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
Not really , but there have n't been that many studies in to the issue . An abstract of the most significant one can be found <URL> . To summarise , the study tested people who had drunk black coffee , coffee with milk , and coffee with non-dairy creamer to see how much of the phenolic acid ( one constituent of coffee that is supposed to have health benefits ) entered the bloodstream in each case . The study found that adding milk had no effect , but adding creamer affected the maximum concentration of the phenols in blood plasma , and the time it took to achieve that concentration . This kind of toing and froing over the health of certain foods is rife today . One minute coffee is bad for you , the next it 's good for you , and so on . For example , the study above assumes that the phenolic acids involved , being antioxidants , are good for you because they reduce free radicals in the body . Free radicals in too high a concentration can indeed be harmful . However , they are also an essential part of the immune system - when a harmful bacteria is found in the body , phagocyte cells will surround it and destroy it with free radicals , for example . Things like this mean that there is rarely a simple answer to questions of food health . Likewise , it has been suggested that people with a certain set of genes may be adversely affected by drinking too much caffeine , which may cause bone loss , unless they also have a source of calcium , like milk , in their diet as well , which would rather suggest that milk is definitely a good thing to have with your coffee !
Most ovens have a ' broil ' setting ( where the top element is on , and not the lower element ) . You 'll likely want a ' broiler pan ' so that you can drain the grease away from the food ( and catch it so it does n't light on fire ) . They 're under $ 20 online . Set the rack of the oven so that the food will be about 2 " from the upper heating element . Heat the broiler on its hottest setting , but leave the door to the oven open . Place the food in the oven , but again , do n't close it . Turn the food occasionally until it 's cooked to the level you want . As for the bit about not closing the door : If you close the door to the oven , it might heat up too much , and shut off . You need the element actively heating , so that you have radiant heating , not convection or conduction . ( this is also why you want the food really close to the heating element ) . Note that this is for electric ovens -- I do n't think gas ovens have the same issue .
A roux is just cooking flour in an equal amount ( or thereabouts ) of fat . If you 've already done it in butter , you already know what you are doing . Butter is tricky because there is some water left in the butter and the fat itself has a low smoke point . After making a roux with butter , another fat is easy . Butter contains water , but it 's not so picky that the small amount of water matters as far as measuring the butter ; it 's more about compensating for the butter 's behavior and not allowing it to burn . Do the same thing with any oil as you have with butter , and you will be fine . If anything , you will find it easier with another fat . Just go roughly 50/50 and take your time .
You should refer to the discussion here : <URL> Some relevant points : MSG is found naturally in seaweed and other things . It is used to enhance the flavors it is combined with . It is completely harmless unless you are limiting your sodium intake . Check out the wikipedia article on the subject as a starting point : <URL> In short there has been no linkage to any adverse effects found in many controlled studies . As far as replacing it - You can leave it out altogether or add a little salt .
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
I think this is a problem with all oils . When something burns , it produces smoke . Smoke is generally indicative of something that is n't particularly good for us if inhaled . Same holds for oils . It seems that all oils will begin to produce toxins once they hit their smoke point . However , before that , they are completely fine . So pick an oil that will handle the temperature you 're using by checking the <URL> . There 's also a difference between producing toxins and toxic . Does burning oil produce toxins ? Yes . Will that actually make you sick ? I do n't know . But my inclination is that it 's unlikely to cause you harm under " normal " usage or else we 'd be hearing about people actually getting sick from burning their oil rather than just getting scare stories on the news about free radicals . And to get very sciency ( stop reading immediately if your eyes glaze over , I think that 's a sign of toxicity ) , from <URL> : Researchers investigated processes of oxidative degradation - notably that caused at 70 ° C with ventilation - of a broad group of oils with very wide-ranging compositions . Another degradation process studied was that which is caused by microwave action that does not heat greater than a temperature of 190 ° C . In both processes deterioration of the oils takes place . In the first type of process ( 70 ° C with ventilation ) hydroperoxides are first produced and subsequently aldehydes . In the second kind of process ( microwave ) it is basically aldehydes produced . It has to be pointed out that both the oxidative conditions and the composition of the oil determined the velocity of the degradation and both the nature and concentration of the compounds produced . These studies have shown , for the first time , that degradation of lipids in foods can produce toxic oxygenated aldehydes . These compounds , well-known in medical studies for their geno - and cytotoxic activity , considered as markers of oxidative stress in cells as well as being causal agents of degenerative illnesses , had not previously been detected in foodstuffs . Researchers have shown that some oils produce these toxic substances in greater quantities and at a greater rate . Virgin olive oil was , amongst all the oils studied , that which took longer to produce this type of compounds and produced a lower concentration of them .
Last evening , I left one empty ( but dirty ) sauce pan unattended on the induction stove top as the dish washer was full . The stove was turned off , but dirty as well , and the pan was slightly touching the controls . During the night , there was a small power outage ( 2 computers were powered off this morning while one was n't ) and apparently , that was enough to have the stove turn on by itself , start cooking and burnt the left-over sauce completely black . Moral of the story : Even when you 're tired after a late meal : clean the stove before going to bed . Leave dirty pots in the sink and not on top of an induction stove !
Based on your description , you seem to be measuring the rice and water in a measuring cup and adding them to the pan . Having used the same Zojirushi rice maker for 8 years , I can testify that relatively small variations in the water/rice ratio can produce large changes in the final texture of the rice . In your case , it seems to be that you 're using too much water . Adjusting the ratio to 1:1 should give you a chewier baseline to work with , and adding water in 1 oz . increments should allow you very fine-grained control ( no pun intended ) over the texture of the rice . That said , I believe that the most reliable results come from using the 3/4 C / 180 mL " cup " provided . To use it , you scoop a number of " cups " of rice and add them to the cooking pan , washing in the pan . After pouring off the wash water , fill the pan with water to the line on the inside face corresponding to the type of rice used and the number of " cups " of rice you added to the pan . In my experience , using this method produces essentially perfect results every time . Adjusting the water level to very slightly below the line will yield chewier rice , while adjusting slightly above will yield mushier rice .
Unless there is something seriously wrong with your stove , you should not have any negative effects from using it to make choux pastry . Simply melt the butter into the water over medium then adjust the temperature to high . The purpose of boiling the water and then cooking the pastry over low heat is to gelatinize the starches in the flour . Your recipe likely adds emphasis to the point of bringing the water to a boil quickly so that you do not simmer the water away . Doing so can have negative effects on the finished product because it will throw off the water : flour ratio and you will not be able to completely gelatinize the starches . If your stove heats up so slowly that you think this might be an issue , you can simply place a lid over the pot as you bring it to a boil , making sure to add back to the pot any condensed vapor on the inside of the lid .
I 'm no authority , but I have a hypothesis . Measuring weight is more complex than measuring volume . Before the invention of the digital scale ( recent history ) , or the spring scale ( 1770 , by a Brit ) things were weighed with a balance scale and a set of weights . Materials alone makes this more expensive than a simple cup that would hold a liquid . Given the timing of the invention of the spring scale , and our subsequent armed revolution , and many years ( decades ? ) of being a flat-out poor country I do n't imagine that we had much money to worry about spring scales or balance scales . A cup is cheaper and simpler , and does n't wear out or break . The durability also likely had a role to play in our journeys westward . Likely by the time we actually could afford " fancier " methods of measurement the volume thing was just too ingrained in our heads . Plus , we tend to be stubborn ( e.g. metric ) .
Olives ( and onions ) are a very traditional garnish used by bartenders to add a slightly savory flavor to a drink . As with many things behind the bar , they 're used nowadays largely because they 're iconic , but they do have a subtle effect on flavor . It 's not really known where traditional garnishes such as citrus peels , cherries , olives/onions , and mint sprigs originated , but they 're found in the earliest known published bartender 's manual . ( This was <URL> ' How to Mix Drinks or the Bon-Vivant 's Companion ; cocktail historian David Wondrich 's book <URL> , which reorganizes and provides context for the original , is required reading for the modern cocktail nerd . ) These garnishes may have started with early drink families called cobblers and juleps which feature fresh berries and mint , respectively . Over time , drinks got more elaborate and drinkers came to expect something added to their drinks to give them more visual appeal . <URL> . At first , as seen in other early bartending guides , bartenders just tossed whatever they had ( usually preserved or pickled items that kept well including nuts , olives , and cherries ) into the drink on hand . Eventually they sorted themselves out and figured out that olives or onions went best with savory drinks such as the Martini , and cherries went best with sweeter drinks such as the Manhattan . The tradition solidified a few years before <URL> in the US , and was one of the practices that survived the resulting upheaval in drinking traditions . In the 1950s , Martini practices grew more variable ; when ordering , you 'd be quizzed about whether you wanted vodka or gin , shaken or stirred , an olive or a twist , without any particular standard . The olive may have become even more tightly associated with the Martini later on , when drinks began skewing to sweet and fruity in the late 1960s and 1970s , and fresh citrus started disappearing behind the bar . For whatever reason , bartenders also seem to have forgotten how to store vermouth ( which , since it 's a wine , will go off if stored at room temperature and allowed to oxidize ) and the olives may have been the only thing preventing Martinis from being unpleasantly bitter . By the 1980s , the " dirty " Martini ( which adds a dash or more of olive brine ) emerged as one of the few options for drinkers who wanted a non-sweet cocktail at a bar . Fortunately , we 've now come full circle , and a Martini closer to the original pre-Prohibition version can be found at many cocktail bars ( usually with a twist of lemon peel ) . But the olive has now been firmly established as the traditional Martini garnish for multiple generations . One of the main reasons that the briny olive works as a garnish is because a small amount of salt is a flavor enhancer , which is why just about every savory dish that we eat ( and some sweet ones , ala salted caramel ) contain at least some salt . There are n't many drinks where salt is added directly , but there are certain drinks ( such as the <URL> ) where it 's an important part of the flavor , and <URL> with a culinary background use a couple drops of salt solution in almost all of their drinks . Some people particularly like this in a Martini , especially if that 's what they 're used to . So , the tl ; dr : It 's now seen as traditional , some people really like the salty flavor it adds , and it works pretty well in a largely savory drink like the Martini .
You 'll sometimes hear television cooking show hosts describe what they 're doing as " cooking out " the paste . What they 're actually doing is altering the flavor of the chili itself , not manipulating the level of capsaicin that was introduced . If you take a typical chili paste which has been combined with garlic and other things and then saute it in a fat , you will lower the level of heat that 's tasted ( and possibly take some bitterness out , depending on the chili and what 's in the paste ) , but not lower the level that 's actually ingested . If you literally want to cook it out , put some sliced chili with nothing else in a searing hot pan , but make sure no one else is home or going to be home for a while , and wear a respirator . The capsaicin has nowhere to go and vaporizes as it burns ( seriously , do n't do that , if you did that in my kitchen I 'd throw a live crab at you ) . Various kinds of fat bond well with the capsaicin , essentially creating a sort of encasement . To demonstrate how this works , grab some sriracha and some cream . Mix in about half a tablespoon of sriracha to about 300 ml of cream , taste it . Now , simmer the cream a bit ( about 3 - 5 minutes ) , take it off the heat , let it rest a few minutes and taste it again . The level of sriracha did n't change , what happened is the cream got its hands on the capsaicin that it contained . It 'll continue to get milder the longer it sits . That 's why a glass of milk can rescue you from atomic hot wings and why water just broadens the pain as it makes sure your whole palate gets a chance to taste it :) Beer just makes you care less about it . Now , sugar has the remarkable quality of helping to hide heat with its mighty <URL> when it comes to your palate . The heat from the chili shows up and your palate says " what ? I 'm too busy with this sweet , I can only listen to a little of you " . To see how that works , repeat the experiment again , but this time throw a teaspoon or so of confectioner 's ( or castor ) sugar into the cream with the sriracha , along with an additional squirt or two ( around 10 ml ) of sriracha . That 's why coconut milk works so perfectly in a curry . The best bet for your recipe is finding a way to get some kind of fat into it . That could be coconut milk , fatty bacon , or whatever makes sense based on how you want to serve it . Then , optionally , sweeten it up a bit ( also remember that citrus helps offset sweet , handy to keep that in mind when you 're ' fixing ' a dish ) - some raisins sound like they 'd work rather well with what you 're doing . Maybe go with coconut milk and raisins , and thin it out with a bit of chicken stock if needed ? I really try to encourage people to take an hour and just experiment with ways you can alter and sort of control chili , because it is a lovely thing to cook with . Just remember , whatever you put in the pan initially ends up being eaten , you 're just hiding a bit of that as you cook .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
Given the source ( Michael Ruhlman ) and that it was linked by Seriouseats , I am willing to bet cash money that not only does it work exactly as stated , it will provide spectacular results .
The site that has the best information I 've found in regards to competitive cooking is <URL> . They do n't quite meet all your criteria in terms of searchability , but they do some levels of sorting and provide a wealth of information on the contests they list ( which are quite numerous ) .
Generally , slow-cooking means any food preparation method which relies on using low-heat for a long amount of time . Barbecues , smokers , luau pits , and low-heat ovens could all qualify . The benefit of slow-cooking , generally , is that food becomes incredibly tender , as all of its connective tissues break down . Also , flavor can infuse over time and provide deeper results than with virtually any other method . Lastly , long-cooking times create a celebratory atmosphere where food is the focal point of a social gathering . Specifically , slow-cooking refers to the ' slow-cooker ' a counter-top set-up which has a large , electronically heated ceramic bowl and a glass lid . It usually has only a few settings , such as ' low ' , ' medium ' , and ' high ' . The benefit of slow-cooking in a slow-cooker is mainly convenience . These units are safe enough to turn on before work and return to before dinner , with fully-cooked , piping hot food ready to go . The slow-cooker is geared towards ' one-pot ' recipes , which means they require minimal food preparation . You simply cut up the ingredients in fairly large chunks , add seasoning , and liquid , and that 's it . They are a favorite of working parents , but increasingly , also a device for more advanced experimentation .
end question
start question
Chinese pork jerky : what makes them so tender , how do you make it ?
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
I have had the same issue when cooking lots of quesadillas , and have found the following combination of techniques to work quite well . The obvious answer has been hit upon already , lower the heat . But I think that 's missing an important aspect of the issue . What 's happening is most likely that you are turning on the heat and then cooking your first omelet before the pan has actually reached temperature . Depending on the type of pan , it can take up to 5 mins for the pan to reach temperature . So , as you continue to cook , the pan is getting closer to temperature . Of course , each time you add more cold egg , the temp decreases again . So your heat is too hot , but it does n't really become apparent until the last omelet . Rather than just starting at a lower temperature though , start at the same temp you tried and then turn down the temperature as you continue to cook . The pan can also heat rapidly between omelets . Take the pan off the heat , swirl your butter or oil through it , add the egg , and then put it back on the heat . If it seems really hot when you add the egg , you can cook it for a second with just the radiant heat of the pan before returning to the burner . This will stop the pan from getting too hot between omelets .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
Tomato paste is just tomatoes with the water removed , essentially . I 'd slice the tomatoes in half and roast them ( cut side up ) at 350 degrees F for an hour ( this will concentrate the flavour nicely and you can add s &amp; p/olive oil/herbs/garlic if you want ) . Then mash them through a sieve or food mill to get a smooth consistency . Then put that tomato puree in a pot and just boil them down until it 's as thick as you want . As it gets thicker , you 'll need to stir it regularly to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot and burning .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
Adding a little bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) to the beans when soaking overnight should help soften them .
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
Another physics digression . All cooked food gets hot , and everything in any given dish will have the same temperature { * } . The tomatoes do n't get hotter than the other ingredients . But they do have a tendency to burn more than certain other substances , so the question is " Why ? " . You get burned when a portion of your flesh reaches a high enough temperature { + } . The food warms your tongue , lips , etc. by heat conduction until either you move the food or your mouth parts and the food reach the same temperature ( a condition known as thermal equilibrium ) . What that common temperature is depends on the amount of heat ( i.e. thermal energy ) in the system . Some of the factors that come into play are : How much ( mass of ) food there is . How much ( mass of ) your mouth is involved ( see below ) . The initial temperature of the food . The " heat capacity " of both the food and your mouth parts , which is a property of each substance that appears as a coefficient in the thermal equilibrium equation . ( Do n't worry , I 'm not going to make you read any math . ) Water has a ( very ! ) high heat capacity , so watery foods tend to drive high final temperature and thus to burn you more easily . There is an added complication for the extra heat needed to establish a phase change ( i.e. melt solids or vaporize liquids ) called the heat of fusion or heat of vaporization . Again water has a high value for both of these numbers . How fast the common temperature is reached depends on The area of contact between the food and the mouth . Another coefficient called the thermal conductivity . This one is complicated , but liquids tend to have a high thermal conductivity and solids less so . This is where soups , sauces , and melted cheese really get you . Note that your mouth parts has a pretty low thermal conductivity , so you only get to count the surface layers in finding the equilibrium temperature . Sorry . Some consequences of all this : This is why you can peel the aluminum foil off of a pan that has just come out of a 400 degree ( F ) oven without trouble , but if you get your hand stuck in the steam plume ( which is only around 212 degrees F ) you get scalded : Aluminum has a low heat capacity , and steam has a ( very , very ! ) high one . Small bites help in two ways : less total heat means a lower common temperature , and may allow you to move the food around in your mouth , reducing the temperature of any one part . Some foods are just dangerous this way . You know what they are from experience : steam , hot soups and sauces , melted cheese , etc. . { * } Well , sort of . But take that as true for any particular region of any particular dish . { + } What temperature is that ? Good question . Maybe there is a medical professional around , 'cause I do n't know . I 'd guess around 140 -- 150 degrees F ( call it 60 -- 65 degrees C ) , but do n't quote me .
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
First , the recommended minimum cooking temperature for pork is 145 so you can cook them a little less than you already are . Also , keep in mind that meat continues to cook after it is removed from the pan/cooking element . The residual heat will produce what is known as " carry over cooking " which can range from 5-15 degrees , depending on the size of the item and how long it sits . Pork chops are n't going to continue rising as high as a large roast that has a greater amount of residual heat built up . Also , it is very difficult to get an accurate reading on temperatures for chops and steaks with a thermometer so it 's really best to learn to determine doneness through touch . For pork you 're looking for a medium doneness so touch your middle finger to your thumb . That will contract the fleshy part between the thumb and index finger on the same hand . Poke that with the index finger from your other hand . It should feel somewhat springy with just a little firmness . That 's how your pork ( or medium-done steak ) should feel when it 's ready to be removed . As for other things you might consider ... Brining will pull moisture into the pork so that it 's less likely to dry out during the cooking process . A brine is a mixture of water , sugar , and salt . Additional flavors may be added but this would be a basic moisturizing brine . Through osmosis , the liquid is pulled into the cells of the meat . As the meat cooks it retains it 's juiciness due to the fact that salt helps to retain water . The flavor is enhanced through any seasonings that were also introduced to the brine as they will be carried into the cells of the meat as well . Basic Brine : 1 qt . water , 1/2 cup kosher salt , 1/2 cup sugar . Add the sugar and salt to the water and stir until dissolved . Submerge meat in brine and refrigerate if brining for an extended period of time . Plan on about 1 hour per pound of meat . When you 're ready to cook , remove the meat from brine , pat dry and then season as you normally would and rub with a little oil before broiling , grilling , searing , etc. . I hope that provides some help !
You could do it as others have mentioned on the lowest setting , You want a temp around 150 degrees F ( 65 degrees C ) . When you do this prepare for drippings . Cut the meat about 50 to 75 % thicker than you want the finished product . To thin will turn it into paper . We soak our meat in a soya sause , sugar , garlic &amp; pepper brine . To add different flavor we will add a hot sauce and honey to make a sweet/hot flavor . Let the meat sit over night in the brine at the least . Stir it a few times to make sure it soaks evenly . you should use a metal screen to put the jerky on , it does n't work well to lay it in a pan . it will just cook in the juices if you do . spray no stick on the screen it helps . Good luck .
There are several options : wrap jerky in paper napkins/towels before putting in the baggie put jerky in a paper bag and then in a plastic one put some uncooked rice , as Optionparty has mentioned The method you choose also depends on how long it takes the mail to be delivered . Rice is the most long-lasting way , but it will also add the most weight to the package . Paper bags and towels are equally effective , but they wo n't do for longer than a few days . Whichever you do , make sure the baggie is well closed to prevent any moisture from outside getting in .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
All crisp-bread recipes use water ( or at least some ingredient with a high water content ) , but the bread is baked and then hung from the ceiling to dry further until the water content is very much reduced . The real mystery is how structure is introduced without leavening . Wikipedia has good information on this point , [ ... ] bubbles are introduced into the dough mechanically . Traditionally , this was done by mixing snow or powdered ice into the dough , which then evaporated during baking . Today , the dough , which must contain a large amount of water , is cooled and mixed until bubbly . Another method is to knead the dough under pressure in an extruder . The sudden drop in pressure then causes water to evaporate , creating bubbles in the dough . Presumably knäckebröd was only made during the winter months before its production became industrialised . For the modern home cook , the difficulty of introducing structure still remains , so it is unsurprising that you did n't find many recipes with very basic ingredients . Some recipes for home cooks introduce structure in the form of seeds and whole grains . Others , as you noted use yeast . Some Swedish crisp breads such as <URL> , have no leavening , no gas incorporated into the dough and are wafer thin . These can be made at home with a very short ingredient list , no specialised equipment and during any season :-) At least some of the major Swedish manufacturers do use yeast . My favorite , <URL> , for instance uses , swedish wholegrain rye flour , fresh water from our own spring , yeast and a pinch of salt . So if you are considering baking your own knäcke , you do n't necessarily have to avoid recipes using yeast .
Yes , it is to do with freshness - the fresher and younger the aubergine , the less bitter it will be . If you have an old aubergine , you could try peeling it , as the bitter compounds are concentrated just under the skin .
There are two major families of North American style donuts : Yeast raised donuts are a very sweet yeast raised dough . ( <URL> from Pioneer Woman blog ) . So-called " cake donuts " which are made from a quickbread like batter very similar to muffin batter , only fried instead of baked . ( <URL> for chocolate cake donuts from Serious Eats . ) If you google , you will find a multitude of donut recipes , in a wide variety of styles and levels of complexity , but almost all of them fall into one of the two groups above . Note : I am not sure that The Simpsons has ever revealed Homer 's preference in donuts .
I second the recommendation for Lukas Volger 's <URL> . I 've been working my way through it and have made several of the recipes so far , all of which have been good . However , I would say that not all of the recipes in the book work well for the grill . I 've been doing everything vegan from the Volger book with mixed results . Many of the recipes use eggs , but you can do them with just breadcrumbs and water as the binder . They come out pretty delicate that way and are better in a skillet and then baked , as Volger recommends . His tofu and chard burgers use some tofu that has been browned then pureed as binder . This works ok , but the burgers came out quite delicate ( but still delicious ) . Silken tofu pureed in the food processor gets a thick , creamy texture that could also be used as a binder . Eggs are by far the most common binder as they may be the best edible binder there is , since they are basically liquid protein , but obviously not vegan . For delicate burgers , I use this <URL> on the grill , which works great . You can find something similar at most kitchen stores . Another binder option is steamed rice , prepared like you would for sushi . It gets sticky and makes a great binder , though they 'll still be a bit delicate . I 've been making the beet , brown rice and black bean burger recipe from Volger 's book . I add bbq sauce and a paste of pureed rehydrated prunes , similar to the veggie burger at Hillstone/Houston 's restaurant and they come out really great . They work fine right on the grill , though refrigerating them overnight makes them a little sturdier . Another option is adding vital wheat gluten and water , aka raw seitan dough . This is what is done in the <URL> black bean burger recipe . I tried these straight on the grill also and they stayed together perfectly , as well as any commercial veggie burger . However , they were a little bland and could use some more seasoning . I have n't tried any of these in burgers , but some common binders in vegan baking are peanut butter , apple sauce and <URL> . I bet peanut butter would work well in a burger with flavors that work with peanut , like Thai flavors or chipotle . Falafel-style burgers also do n't need any binders , they stick together pretty well and can be grilled , though you may want to use a grill grid or something similar . Lastly , you can put a cast iron skillet or pizza stone on the grill - it 's common now for grilled pizza and will work for delicate burgers .
I 'm afraid this is impossible . It 's the freezing , not the thawing , that causes this . Remember , water expands when freezing , so the freezing process breaks the cell walls , so when the pepper thaws , it has lost its crispness . This does n't matter if you 're going to mince it finely or cook it , though ! I freeze peppers regularly .
end question
start question
Why is sauteing beneficial ?
The flip answer is that sauteed food will taste good , and the microwaved version you 're describing will not . A more useful answer , however , would consider physics and chemistry . Microwaving excites molecules , resulting in heat , presuming an adequate supply of water molecules to excite . Sauteeing conducts heat from the heat source to the food by way of the pan . Microwaving falls somewhere between radiant heating ( like an oven ) and steaming , though the results from conventional methods are generally superior . Sauteeing can transfer enough heat quickly enough that desirable effects like caramelization and similar effects like browning are effected with the help of fats and sugars ( often referred to as a <URL> ) , which produces volatile compounds that are very aromatic and contribute a lot to our perception of flavor . It 's exceptionally hard to create the same effects with a microwave .
The canning process makes food safe : existing bacteria and fungi are killed , the intrusion of new pathogens is prevented by sealing the container . ( More e.g. <URL> . ) As soon as you open the can or jar , its contents are exposed to the surrounding air which will contain bacteria and fungal spores . Some of those will happily grow feeding on the food they land on . Refrigerating slows down their metabolism , meaning they ca n't reach dangerous numbers within the recommended storage time after opening . For more info on storing food , see our canonical posts <URL> and on how long quickly-spoiling food can be <URL> .
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
According to <URL> , the main reason is that in raw packing , more air is introduced into the jar . This may lead to discoloration over time , which is an aesthetic issue , rather than a safety issue . Regarding hot packing , they describe the benefits : This practice helps to remove air from food tissues , shrinks food , helps keep the food from floating in the jars , increases vacuum in sealed jars , and improves shelf life . Preshrinking food also permits filling more food into each jar . They provide the following guidelines regarding which method to use : Use the hot-pack method , especially with acid foods to be processed in boiling water rather than a pressure canning method . The Raw pack method is fine for pickles and for vegetables to be processed in a pressure canner . See also : <URL> describing the differences , benefits , and reasoning in great detail .
This probably refers to whole eggs mostly ... A microwave can boil water very rapidly , and a tight but fragile container like a whole egg will violently rupture if such rapid boiling happens inside it , because the overpressure inside it is already significant when the shell finally breaks . Here is a <URL> showing an experiment with ca. 180 eggs in a microwave oven , which after a minute or two rupture simultaneously and with enough force to blow the oven open , with debris being propelled several meters .
It may be that your oven is not up to temperature before your first batch goes in . If it 's not hot enough your cookies will have more time to melt and flatten before they cook . Try giving the oven 10 more minute preheating time before putting your first batch in .
Supply and demand . Supplies of avocados are declining due to droughts and unusual weather patterns . Not only drought can reduce crops , but unusual cool weather patterns can as well . Avocados dislike temperatures lower than 10 ° C and have absolutely no frost tolerance . Demand for avocados is going steadily upward as more people enjoy cuisines in which they are popular , such as Mexican and many South American dishes . Avocado oil is becoming more in demand as people consume it for its healthy omegas , and cooks use it due to its high smoke-point . Declining supply + rising demand = high prices .
The reason is that butter can inhibit gluten formation . It ' coats ' the proteins that would form gluten . You knead the dough first to get gluten , and then add the butter afterward around the already formed gluten . You can add it earlier , you just end up with less gluten and a more tender dough . Creaming is n't usually done with bread , as its purpose is air bubble formation .
Hmm . I would say that pumpkins maybe have a slight bit of acidity , but I would never think of them as distinctly sour . I suppose it could be the variety you are using . Also , taste your stock by itself to make sure it is n't contributing an unwanted sour note . All of that said , it may just be one of those expectation things . We are used to pumpkin in a sweet context , and your brain wants that little bit of sugar there to match the template , so it seems sour without it . If you really want to test this out further , try making a small batch of the same recipe with no spices and plain water to see if it is truly the pumpkin that seems sour to you .
Were your blueberries grainy ? I occasionally get a pint that have a grainy texture . I 've heard that this means they are n't quite fresh , but they usually taste just fine despite the texture . I 'm not sure if this particular graininess translates to a jam though . Jam can also get grainy from sugar that is n't fully dissolved . This can happen more easily with larger batches , since the fruit can start to boil before the sugar is fully dissolved . For your particular recipe , perhaps a more thorough stirring after adding the sugar would help . You should be able to turn the heat down once you add the sugar so that you can stir it thoroughly before going back to high heat to boil for that 1 minute .
Cleanliness , as pTerry reminds us , is only next to godliness in a very sternly abridged dictionary . However , working clean has three main things going for it : order ! when you 're trying to bang out a couple hundred dishes as fast as possible , being orderly and methodical in your work is not just important , it is absolutely vital . safety ! see above . if your area is a mess , you 're more likely to injure yourself or others . Bear in mind that we play with sharper knives and hotter burners than you do at home health ! a clean work area is one that is free of cross-contamination . Per calumbrodie 's answer below , I 'd like to expand a bit on the need for order . I 'll do this by telling you about my day today . We 've just rotated the kitchen ; chef does this from time to time to make sure everyone is cross-trained on all stations . So right now for the restaurant I 'm responsible for sandwiches ( one hot menu sandwich , one daily special ) , prepping one of our appetizers , one hot appetizer , soup daily , and one of our main courses ( crepe stuffed with pan-roasted wild mushrooms , caramelized shallots , and barre boulard cheese which is just heavenly ) . In addition to that , we also have a takeout counter and a satellite location elsewhere in the building ; for those I am responsible for sixteen sandwiches daily ( different from the restaurant sandwiches ! ) as well as stuffed chicken which goes with a salad . We start work at 9:30 AM , everything for the takeout must be ready by 11:15 , and restaurant service runs from 11:30 until 3PM . You should be able to see the time constraints this imposes . When I walked in this morning , here is what I had to do just to get the counter stuff out , and be ready for service : Bake bread ( parbaked , frozen , from a local artisanal baker ; we simply do not have the room to bake our own , although chef is open to the idea of tasking me with that ) Bread , par-fry , stuff , and bake chicken breasts . Deep-fry onions until crispy ( garnish for the menu sandwich ) Make crepes ( must be done fresh daily ) Make sandwiches for the counters ( today I was lucky ; I had some of the mise ready from some free time on Saturday ) Oops , mayonnaise did n't come in Friday 's delivery , better make some ... Make garnish for the soup I made Saturday Double check all my mise en place in case I forgot something . Chef has slimmed down the menu somewhat , but I still have roughly fifteen to twenty different components which must all be ready , all the time . With backups in case we get slammed . I have 1h 45m to do all of these things . And while I work best in a situation that looks like chaos to the outside observer , everything is carefully organized and planned . For example , crepes are something that -- if you 've made enough of them -- you can interweave with another task : make the batter first . Ladle batter into pan , spin around , put back on the heat . Good , now I have a minute or two to work on another task ; make a sandwich . Flip crepe , cut and wrap sandwich . Remove crepe from pan , repeat . And this was a slow day . On a busy day , this list could easily be twice as long , including some things that will simply take time and require undivided attention . So that took right up until service . During service I 'm still prepping : everything I need for tomorrow that can possibly be done today , I do . So ... roasting turkey for tomorrow 's sandwich , making a cranberry aioli , making crab croquettes for the entremetier station ( so : mashed potatoes , chilled -- oh dear that 's going to take two hours to come down in temp , better get started now -- then folded around a crab mixture ) , some sort of stuffing for tomorrow 's chicken ... and on top of that I 've got to be planning for Wednesday , for which I will need a new soup ( and garnish ) , got ta roast another lamb leg -- and that needs to chill too so I can slice it carefully , make sure I 've got enough bread in stock , and oh wait -- we have a catering function Thursday for which I need to make about a dozen things , best figure out when I 'm going to do that ... And all of this is being done while chits are coming out of the printer , so I need to be organized in such a way that I can not only stop whatever project I 'm working on , but that having those ingredients/tools on my station wo n't impede my ability to serve food in a timely manner . ... you get the point . ( There 's a much better treatment of this , from an exec 's POV , in Bourdain 's Kitchen Confidential ) . Without some order to my workspace ( which is thankfully large ) , I would quickly be dans la merde and everything would go a bit pear-shaped . I 've had those days , and it is difficult for me to convey how much it sucks to look at the clock , know you have five minutes left , and know that you have fifteen minutes of work still to go . The thing about working in a kitchen is that , apart from a very few places which run with military precision ( Alinea , Fat Duck , elBulli , Moto , the Laundry , etc ) , there is never enough time . Ever . And when there is enough time , well , there 's
Actually , I think " the Internet " is wrong on this one , assuming that we are talking about proper caramel sauce . In most of candy making , you are very careful of crystalization . You are working with a supersaturated sugar solution , and it is looking for the slightest excuse to precipitate . Stirring will clump the sugar out of the solution into crystals . Some candy types need to be perfectly smooth , while others ( like fudge ) get their characteristic texture from careful management of crystal size . You should n't be stirring there at all . But once you have reached caramelization , you can stir . What you have in the pan is no longer a supersaturated sugar solution , but caramelization products mixed in a less-concentrated sugar solution . In other words , you have caramel , which is a substance quite different from sugar syrup . And it does not clump into crystals . It is amorphous in its structure , not a crystal , and it 's actually got some viscosity ( if you leave a clump a solid caramel around for years , it will flow a few centimeters ) . And you are not just dealing with pure caramel , but with caramel sauce , which also has lots of liquid added in the form of cream . So much liquid would have also prevented the sugar syrup from crystalizing if it had been added earlier . So , to summarize , you should n't stir a sugar solution during candy making , but you can stir both caramel and caramel sauce . It seems that somebody learned the rule about hot sugar solutions and decided that it applies in all kinds of candy making , without exceptions . But in fact , it does n't apply to caramel sauce .
The following excerpt answers questions 1 and 2 . Additionally it reduces the cooking time for the parboiled rice . Also known as converted rice , parboiled rice has been pressure-steamed and then dried in its natural outer husk ( which is later removed ) . This process hardens the starch in the grains so they remain firmer , less sticky , and separate when cooked . It also forces the vitamins and minerals from the outer layer of the grains into the endosperm , which is the part we eat . This makes parboiled rice a more nutritious option than regular ( unenriched ) white rice , which does n't retain any of the goodness of the nutrient-rich husk . There are several techniques you can use to prevent unprocessed cooked rice from sticking to each other : Use medium to long grain rice . Rinse the rice until the rinsing water is completely clear . Use the Boil and Steam method to cook the rice . In this method boil the rice for 5-10 minutes . Then pour off the excess water and steam the rice for an additional 10 minutes . This method of cooking the rice reduces the most starch on the outside of the rice which is what causes the sticking . Source : <URL>
Toughness is usually the result of either too much gluten ( which in turn comes from using a flour too high in protein ) , or not enough fat ( or possibly adding the fat at the wrong time ) . Poor volume on the other hand is usually the result of using low-protein flour , and thus not having enough gluten formation . Therefore it is logical to assume that the most likely cause of your bread troubles is the fat . Try adding some more fat .
After dumping out a couple of jars of failed not-quite-fermented fennel I wondered , " Could fennel have antimicrobial properties ? " < < facepalm >> Why , yes . Yes it could : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Granted , these are about the essential oil and not the whole plant . So I ca n't be sure this is the problem , but it seems very likely . Maybe a little fennel mixed in with something else wo n't muck up the fermentation process , whereas a whole jar of fennel can . And though it 's hard to know , I suppose there could be a safety concern . Lacto fermentation protects us through ( 1 ) salt , ( 2 ) oxygen depletion , and ( 3 ) acid production . Based on what I saw with the failed batches , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) may have been below normal . If salt-tolerant critters were to survive ... that could be bad .
A latte is similar to a cappuccino but with different proportions . It 's unsurprising that a similar method and equipment would be used . Cappuccino needs steamed milk to get the froth , so a coffee bar machine has a steam pipe . To boil the milk for a latte would require an extra piece of equipment and the associated space . Is perfectly possible to make an espresso-based drink with milk heated on the stove or in a microwave , that would be a close approximation to a latte -- possibly indistinguishable . But if you boil the milk , it will change the flavour .
Yes , as mentioned previously it is beneficial to whip egg whites in copper bowls BUT it is important to note that the impact on the egg whites from the copper is primarily beneficial for applications where the final product is going to be baked . You will generally not notice any increased volume in the whipped egg whites themselves , compared to what you 'd get without a copper bowl . As the whites are whipped the copper bonds to create a copper salt that increases the temperature at which the proteins will coagulate . The copper salt makes them more pliable and able to better expand without rupturing . Under " usual " conditions ( glass , stainless steel , ceramic ) they will coagulate at around 160F degrees . When whipped in a copper bowl they have to reach 170F degrees before they coagulate . This means that they will have a 10 degree increase in temperature to continue to expand and increase in volume . This also means that if you 're talking about whipping egg whites for meringues , dried for cookies or other desserts , the expense of a copper bowl will not be worthwhile as you 're not looking for expansion properties in these items . If you 're doing a lot of cakes and souffles then a copper bowl would certainly produce better results .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
In meatballs or meat loaf or even burgers , breadcrumbs are sometimes added with egg . The bread , if unseasoned , does n't change the flavor much except to dilute it . The texture is definitely different . It is smoother and spongier . The breadcrumbs also soak up liquid so the product does n't lose as much and stays moister . Purists often decry the use of breadcrumbs in things like burger patties . For myself - I will add breadcrumbs when I am in the mood for the breadier texture - often when I will be adding extra liquid flavorings like Worcestershire or liquid smoke and want to strengthen the structure a bit .
end question
start question
Is it possible to make caramel that does not taste sweet ?
It is very simple , you just have to heat it long enough . It can even happen by accident :) The taste is a mixture of bitter and sour , while the smell component is mostly towards something burnt . Also , your assumption " because of the uncaramelized sugar mixed in the caramel " is incorrect , or at least incomplete . There usually is such sugar , but many of the caramelization products of the early stages of caramelization also taste sweet on their own . In later stages , you get more and more nonsweet stuff until you get into the state I described ( barely liquid charcoal ) .
I think what your looking for is called poured sugar oil moulds ( rings ) that you want to use ant shape is okay then use 2 lbs sugar ,1 lb water , 6.55 ounces of glucose and food colouring if you want.make a syrup with the three and then boil until it reaches 260F add food colouring continue to boil until temp . reaches 330F plunge the pot into a cold water bath to stop the cooking.remove from water and let stand 2-3 minutes to thicken . Pour mixture into moulds until 1/4 inch thick . Once edges have setenough remove the ring . Use a little reheated sugar to attached pieces together like a glue.this can be used as a base for any center piece you want to create with other sugar pieces
Kudos to your wife for giving it another shot ! Let me start with what I feel is the most important part of my answer : find a good fish monger and make friends . If the supermarket is the best you can find , so be it , but learn the name of the person behind the counter , ask about the fish , be interested . Ask what 's just in , ask what 's fresh . If the fish is frozen at sea , ask if you can get some from the freezer instead of the stock in the case that 's been thawed and sitting all day . Ask to touch and smell the fish . Look at the stock - do the whole fish have clear eyes ? Does it smell like a dumpster ? Getting the freshest , best fish will help you and your wife enjoy it more . <URL> on shopping for fish . Now , on to your bullet points . Fish should never smell or taste " fishy " . Fishy smelling fish is a sign of bad fish . I find that a lot of my friends who say they do n't like fish have had experiences with poorly handled or old fish . Fish must be fresh ( or frozen at sea and handled properly afterward ) to be good . I 've stopped ordering fish in restaurants unless it specializes in fish ( and I do n't mean Red Lobster ) or is well known for their freshness . That said , some fish is certainly more strongly flavored than others . I <URL> here with a few varieties of mildly flavored fish . I do agree that flaky , white-fleshed fish is generally the mildest . Flatfish , like sole or flounder tend to be consistently mild . Tilapia has become an extremely popular fish lately . However if you do find a good fish monger , talk to him about it and you should be able to find plenty of interesting venues : monkfish has been called the poor man 's lobster , and I had some arctic char the other night that knocked my socks off . As for why white fish tends to be less strongly flavored than meatier fishes , I ca n't really answer authoritatively . My guess would be that meatier fishes tend to be more oily and fatty , which equals more/stronger flavor .
The only way that the butter could be incorporated without creaming would be to melt it . Melting butter , or allowing it to get too soft , even if just left at room temperature too long will result in what I call " pancake cookies " ... those that just spread out and run all over the baking sheet . This is also the reason that butter should NEVER be softened in the microwave . Creaming butter and sugar aerates the butter with tiny little air pockets . The reason it becomes lighter in color is due to the air that has been incorporated . The moisture inside the air pockets from the butter itself to eggs , milk , etc. turns to steam and the steam ( aided by any leavening that might be called for in the recipe ) helps the cookies to " puff " . If you do n't cream the butter and sugar you 'll most likely have very poor results . The expense of the wasted and ingredients and your time would be enough to pay for an inexpensive hand mixer .
You are n't going to be able to get a sourdough starter from flour to ready-to-bake in 24 hours . You could easily make a poolish or pâte fermentée in that time , and get some of the flavor . You might also be able to use some yogurt whey or another source of lactic acid to get some of the sour flavor . Unfortunately , a sour starter is something that you kind of need to keep going and have on hand .
Braising gently in milk will also , I find , help with bitterness . The radicchio becomes wonderfully succulent , very nice with a firm-fleshed fish .
@Adam A is close -- it 's not an issue of surface area on potency , it 's an issue of damage to the garlic . The ' strong ' taste of garlic comes from a reaction as chemicals are released so they can mix ( alliin and alliinase ) When you cook the garlic whole ( as you would for roasted garlic ) , you will never get this reaction , as you 'll break down the chemicals . Also , the chemicals break down over long cooking , so even if you add a head of crushed garlic at the beginning of a batch of slow-cooked tomato sauce ( 4 + hrs ) , it 's not going to have as strong a garlic flavor as adding a clove or two at the end . One other way that the garlic prep can affect the taste is when you 're sauteing , stir frying or other cooking over high heat -- larger bits can be cooked longer before they burn ... and burned garlic is bitter , acrid and will ruin any dish . ( if you burn garlic , stop immediately , trash everything , clean the pan , and start again -- there is no way to save it that I know )
Sweetness is perceived in inverse relation to temperature , so what you say is quite correct . Further along the same range , ice cream or sorbet tastes much less sweet when frozen than when you taste the initial base .
Doing both is possible , but there is no point . For both , you need a <URL> , and this is a good contender for a gadget not worth its shelf space in a home kitchen . For a good chocolate , you have to mix the melted combination of base chocolate and additional ingredients for hours ( Wikipedia says 6 for low quality , up to 78 for best quality ) , and this is what the conche does for you . For a nice structure and shine , you also want to temper the chocolate afterwards and cool it under appropriate conditions . Chocolate is made by pressing roasted cocoa beans to cocoa liquor ( consists of cocoa butter and cocoa solids ) . The dry remainder of the beans is then ground to cocoa powder ( and sometimes also deacidified in a <URL> ) . The cocoa butter can be separated from the liquor . The pure liquor can be tempered and sold as high-end baking chocolate , also called " unsweetened chocolate " in the US ( low-end blocks of " baking chocolate " are mostly cocoa powder mixed with hydrogenated vegetable fat ) . To create bars of chocolate , chocolate creators like Lindt put cocoa liquor together with sugar in a conche to create different grades of dark chocolate ( US name : semi-sweetened chocolate ) , or also add milk or milk solids to create milk chocolate . Lower grade semisweet chocolate has cocoa powder added , so a 72 % chocolate will always have 72 % cocoa bean products and 28 % sugar , but depending on the brand , the ratio of cocoa solids and cocoa butter will vary , which will have effect on its behavior in confectionery ( a higher ratio of cocoa butter will produce a smoother chocolate with more shine ) . If you insist on changing the darkness of a chocolate you have and achieve reasonable quality , you have to throw together the needed ingredients , conche them , and temper them . For example , you could start with 100 g 60 % semi-sweet dryish chocolate , add 80 g cocoa butter and 20 g cocoa powder , and you will end up with 200 g of smooth 80 % semi-sweet chocolate , if you do it right . Given the prices for high quality raw materials , energy requirements and space taken up by a conche , and the availability of different grades of chocolate , I do n't see any reason to go through all of this instead of directly buying good quality 80 % chocolate . This all assumes that the final product you want is pure chocolate . If you are making , say , a chocolate flavored custard , where you mix ganache into custard , and you have a chocolate bar darker than what the recipe specifies , you can get a perfectly good solution by first dissolving sugar in the warm cream and making the ganache with it , and then adding it to the custard . Other recipes which work with chocolate mixes ( e.g. cake layer batters ) function in a similar way - add your ingredient ( cocoa powder if your chocolate is too light , sugar if it is too dark ) to a wet ingredient which will dissolve it , and then mix the melted chocolate in as usual .
Sure , why not ? It probably wo n't turn out quite like the stuff you get at the store , but all you need is cream , a way to churn air into it , and enough agitation that the milk fat molecules start to clump together . It will require some manual work once you 've got the butter and buttercream separated . But the food processor will get you most of the way there without too much of an arm workout . Check out this <URL> with a food processor .
As Sobachatina said , it 's cooked like many grains , and behaves very similar to rice . You could try continuing the steaming method , and if it does not get done by the time all the water has turned to steam , start it with a bit more water . Sobachatina 's suggestion of a tight lid is also worth considering , but pay attention to the pot then , so you do n't get it boiling over . An alternative is to use a boiling method . With or without toasting it first , add 3.5 parts of water to 1 part quinoa . Cook until soft , and put through a sieve to discard the superfluous water . The upside is that , unless you are using too high a temperature , there is no way to burn it .
If you add too much water your jello ( jelly in some parts of the world ) will not solidify . What I would suggest is looking for a non-sweetened gelatin mix and adding less sugar to it . Alternatively you could get gelatin sheets or powder and make your own from scratch . It 's not that hard to do and you get exactly what you want .
Evidently , there are some recipes for frozen confections based on oat milk . For example , <URL> provides " 5 vegan ice creams " , most of which are based on oat milk . They read more like sorbet recipes , due to the lack of fat in the mix . If you were to try to create your own oat milk based frozen dessert recipes , I would suggest modifying a base sorbet recipe , as they are not as dependent on fat as ice cream recipes . The additional starches in oat milk compared to water should add slightly more body and mouth feel , and make the product more opaque than a traditional sorbet . If you are not opposed to egg whites , you might also consider using sherbert recipes as your base . Note : the lactose in dairy products does not have a huge effect on the chemistry of ice cream ( it is a small part of the total sugar in the mix ) , although it could potentially help inhibit sugar crystal formation somewhat ( this is not usually an issue in frozen desserts ) . If you want to replace its effect , a small amount of honey , maple syrup , or even corn syrup would be very similar .
Yes , you can do it without a press . Place a ball of dough between two layers of plastic wrap . Use at least twice the area of wrap that you think the final tortilla will be . Squish the ball flat with a pan , book , or your hand . Now use a rolling pin to roll the dough between the sheets of plastic . Make sure the thickness is even , and do n't get it too thin or it will break when you cook it . Bonus : you can store the uncooked tortillas in the plastic until using and they wo n't dry out .
There is no reason why you ca n't turn chocolate milk into yogurt . Now , much commercial chocolate milk has carrageenan added as a stabilizer . If you get issues with carrageenan separating out , you can also use Torani chocolate syrup ( intended to flavor coffees ) to add the flavor to normal milk .
There are two types of paprika extracts ; one , as you mention , is mainly a food colour . I understand this is made from raw , unsmoked paprika . It has no real flavour . The other is mostly a smoke flavour . I believe it 's taken from the smoked paprika leftovers , not from the raw paprika . Neither is any good for simulating the colour , texture , and taste of paprika . There are also many types of paprika , each having a different level of spice , colour , oil , and smoke . It is just a question of taste and culture to which one you like . So getting an extract to match what you think paprika is , is also difficult .
Nutella is over half sugar by weight ; peanut butter might be more like 5-10 % depending on brand/style . That already sounds like enough that it wo n't make a good one-for-one substitution in most things , especially anything that 's not already pretty sweet . It probably also means that it 'll have a slightly different resulting texture ; nutella is already a bit less thick ( probably again affected by the sugar ) , and I believe this is pretty obvious when heated , though it 's been a while since I tried .
Sure . <URL> , and I think there was an episode of Good Eats that described the process pretty well , too . I 'm not sure what you can get at the butcher in India , but you 'll want to find the belly of the pig . What you do is rub the meat with a cure , which is a mix of salt , sugar , seasoning , and " pink salt " ( a curing salt that is part regular salt and part sodium nitrite ) . Leave it in your fridge in a ziploc bag for a week or covered on a tray , flipping it over daily so that it cures evenly , then rinse it off . At that point you can roast it in a low oven , smoke it , or hang it to dry .
From my answer on another question ( that justkt linked in the comments ) : <URL> Arborio rice , the classic choice for risotto , contains roughly 19 to 21 percent amylose . However , that is not the only difference . The desirable " bite " in risotto is due to a defect in Arborio rice called chalk . During maturation , the starch structures at the grain 's core deform , making for a firm , toothy center when cooked . Sorry , but for the best risotto , you really need an appropriate rice .
Vanilla sugar is incredibly easy to make . Store a whole vanilla bean in a jar of sugar , shaking it up every so often , until the sugar is vanilla flavored . That 's it . The time , I think , would depend on your bean and your taste .
end question
start question
Why did my omelette turn gray ?
I have a theory about your omelette ( and sadly , no means to test it ) . But I think it is plausible , please feel free to point out logical errors . I think that the unappetizing coloring is due to the creation of sulfur salts in your pan . Egg whites are rich in sulfur , as are all alliums ( including chives ) . If you heat them enough ( you do n't mention whether you overcooked the omelette , but it happens often enough ) , the heat changes the molecules in which the sulfur is bound , and the sulfur atoms ( or sulfur containing ions ) are free to react with whatever they find around . If they happen to find iron or copper , they form sulfides and sulfates with them . These sulfides and sulfates have colors ranging from blue to green , and pure iron sulfide is black . A mixture of them with the yellow yolk can easily look gray , especially when the color is desaturated through the addition of white cream cheese . You say you used a coated pan , but there are still possible sources for the iron and copper . First , nuts contain trace elements , including iron and copper . Second , yolks too contain iron ( in fact , the bluish coloring on the surface of a hard boiled yolk is an iron sulfide created when the proteins in the egg white denaturated from the heat ) . Third , you ca n't exclude contamination of the ingredients ( plants sometimes store metal ions from the environment ) . I have no way to prove any of the above , but at least it sounds like a good working theory . But I will understand if you are n't eager to reproduce in order to investigate the effect closer .
It sounds like you may be having temperature control issues . If it 's not dark enough , keep it over low heat for a bit longer . If it 's hardening/burning , it 's probably caused by one of the following : 1 ) your stovetop ( if burner is n't turned low enough or burner is too large and overheats sides of pan ) 2 ) your pan ( easy to burn things if your pan is n't sufficiently thick-bottomed ) 3 ) lack of attention during the carmelization process ( you need to move the sugar towards the center once carmelization begins to prevent burning at the edges , but not stir it too much ) . You might find these <URL> helpful for troubleshooting .
Hojicha is a green tea which is made from bancha , a low grade green tea , and cooked slightly ; this very inexpensive green tea often comes out brown because it is discolored by oxidation . Other than this variety , and some very stale bancha , I ca n't think of a Japanese green tea that comes out brown . Some stale kukicha might come out brown , and low quality genmaicha made with poor quality kukicha could be brownish from the combination of excess oxidation and the toasted rice . Most of the non-Japanese green teas I 've seen sold as " green tea " and some lower quality teabags marked as " sencha " are broken down tea leaves that can easily oxidize in the packaging to the point where they are , at best , yellowish . However , if you use even a moderate quality sencha , and it is n't stale , it should come out green . Most good quality kukicha and genmaicha will at least come out greenish-yellow . Since most Japanese restaurants use a fairly inexpensive second-harvest sencha , I imagine you 're either buying hojicha or simply using a very stale , low-quality sencha . Chinese green teas are sometimes slightly yellow , but if they 're actually yielding a brown brew , they , too are either stale or are simply mislabeled oolong . I used to sell a fair amount of green tea when I ran a small scale import business . I do recall even matcha products turning brown after being exposed to excessive sunlight ; one of the bakeries I know was constantly running into issues with their matcha pound cake slices on sunny days , especially those pieces in the front of their pastry case . So it 's reasonably possible you simply have tea which has been stored improperly ; you 're best off with a nitrogen flushed tea and it should be used within about 6 months of opening the sealed package . If your tea comes unsealed , it probably is n't in very good shape to begin with . In any event , my recommendation is to try a first-harvest high-mountain grown sencha that is sold in nitrogen-flushed aluminum packages . Depending on the style , the brewed color will be either very green or slightly yellowish if brewed in the typical way . You can either do a very brief , several second infusion at near-boiling , or a longer infusion at around 80 celsius . I like it both ways . Gyokuro , if you can afford it , is extraordinarily green , but is unlikely to be served at a restaurant without an additional charge ( it 's essentially the same leaves used to make matcha , except rolled instead of being milled ) .
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
You are probably stirring the pudding too much . Cornstarch starts thickening at about 205 ° F/95 ° C . Once the pudding has got to that point and has thickened , stop stirring , otherwise you will interfere with the starch formation that causes the thickening . Using electric beaters probably means you are missing the point when the pudding has thickened and quickly beating the living daylights out of any starch formation that has occurred . It may also be the case that you are beating so much air into the pudding that it just does n't get hot enough to activate the cornstarch in the first place . I would use @ecnerwal 's suggestion of a double boiler , along with a balloon whisk , and some patience .
This is another case for anthocyanins , the same compound that causes garlic and ginger to turn blue . Anthocyanins are pH sensitive , only appearing blue or purple when in the presence of acidity . As you cook the beans , the cells begin to rupture and lose water , which causes the acid around the anthocyanins to be diluted . As this happens , they lose their color allowing the green chlorophyll ( which was always present ) to show through . <URL>
Blowing out happens because the extra expansion of the bread in the oven , called oven spring , expands further than the skin of the bread can accommodate . The protein sheets that make up risen bread can toughen when they dry out . When the bread is introduced to the sudden high heat of the oven the water and alcohol vaporizes , filling the loaf with gas . If the outer gluten sheets were allowed to toughen or if the spring is just to great then the sheets have to tear to make room . The tear will happen wherever the sheets are weakest . This seems to be usually in the ugliest spot possible for a blowout . It would be possible to reduce the spring by baking at a lower temperature but the spring is desirable and results in a lighter texture . The solution must come , therefore , in softening the gluten or controlling the expansion . Fat softens bread so this problem happens mostly with lean doughs . One possible solution for some breads is to increase the amount of fat in the dough . Keeping the surface of the dough moist will also help . Keep the dough covered while it is proofing and spraying it with water when it goes in the oven , and , if possible , having a humid environment in the oven will keep the proteins from drying out . The traditional solution with lean doughs is to allow the blowout to occur but control the direction . In this way the loaf can be both light and attractive . Slashing the surface of the loaf releases some of the pressure and allows the baker to have some control over the direction of expansion .
Onions have a lot of sugar in them . All they want in the world is to burn and fill your kitchen with oniony smoke . The solution , as with all things heavy in sugar , is to turn down the heat and stir frequently . That said - if your olive oil was extra virgin then it might have been your oil that started burning before the onions did .
Most pestos use olive oil , which solidifies at around 6 degrees celsius - just over the temperature of the average fridge . The shop-bought pestos you buy probably adulterate the olive oil with other kinds of oils . In any case , you 'll be able to eat your pesto just by leaving it out at room temperature for a few hours , or by just scooping it out and adding to your hot pasta .
After a few experiments , I found the lessening the concentration of the cure left the meat undercured and still salty , whereas a soak eased out the excess salt of the already-cured beef .
Perhaps I 'm stating the obvious , but is your oven rack perfectly level ? Muffin mix initially has low enough viscosity that it can be influenced by gravity as it gradually rises . Even a small inclination of the tray/rack is likely to cause this .
The crystalization is to be expected , that 's what inverted sugar does . It is the same thing as with honey , which is chemically nothing but a contaminated inverted sugar . So , you are not doing anything wrong . In an inverted sugar at sucrose ratios , you will get sucrose crystalizing back out of the solution , just as you are observing now . If you really need it smooth , you can try changing the ratio by adding some fructose , as such a mixture is less prone to crystalizing . The one thing that puzzles me in your description is that you can not get it back smooth by heating , this should in principle be possible . Maybe try adding a bit of water to the syrup itself during heating , so it can dissolve again .
As far as I know , pouring hot stuffs into the meringue ( beaten egg-white ) while mixing will denature the protein , and thus stiffen and stabilize the meringue . However , I have no idea why you should pour and wait , then mix in .
The brown color of the stock comes from the cooking method , not the kind of bones , a chicken stock cooked in the " brown stock " method can be as dark as what we expect beef stock to be . Roasting the bones was a good start ; but you also need to brown the vegetables , either with the bones for the last half hour or in a pan on the stovetop . One of the most important parts of brown stock is to add tomato to the vegetable mix , either finely diced or more often tomato paste . Cooking the tomato to a dark brick red will round out the components needed to make a very dark stock . Whether you roast all the ingredients together in the oven or separate the vegetables to the stove ; deglazing everything as you did helps the flavor , color , and of course makes cleaning the pans easier :)
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
The theories that have come out in comments are most likely right on . Cast iron is special in how well it retains heat . Give cast iron ample preheating time , and you can drop in cold food without a significant drop in the temperature of the pan . That equals crispy . Even a pretty good and heavy non-stick pan is not going to give sweet potatoes the kind of crisp you can achieve with cast iron . You mention higher sides in the non-stick pan . That alone probably would n't make much of a difference , but considering that you 're already seeing a greater drop in temperature as you put in the potatoes , the higher sides would hold in more moisture in the cooler pan . That is not a friend of crispiness . You say that you preheated both pans to about the same temperature . I actually hope your memory is a little off on that :) One of the great joys of cooking with cast iron is that you can and usually should pre-heat it to a quite high temperature without damaging the pan . Teflon , on the other hand , should never be preheated beyond a very moderate temperature for a very short time . Some people go so far as to say that you should n't preheat it all . So if your beginning temperatures were about the same in the pans , they should n't have been . After you put in the potatoes , forget about it . You 'll never get the same kind of crispy sear with a teflon pan as you will with cast iron , even if you do n't know how to best exploit the advantages of cast iron .
Expiration dates on milk are not intended for open containers . Any open milk is only good for 3-5 days . After that , it is not safe for drinking , and taste is not guaranteed either . Many people seem to not know that . Traditionally , you could only buy HTST pasteurized milk , which has 7-10 days of usable time altogether . It spent 2-3 days on its way to the customer , and if a milk opened on day 3 after production went off on day 8 , nobody wondered , because it was on or just before the expiration date . Today , you get also ESL milks and nut milks , which have a much longer life in the closed container . But once you open them , they start acting like any other food - they are only good for 3-5 days in the fridge , no longer . The expiration date does n't matter for open foods .
It will if you add more icing sugar but you may end up with a lot of buttercream depending on how much of the icing you have left . A basic ratio is 4 cups icing sugar to 1 cup of butter and 1/4 cup of liquid which makes 3 cups of icing . You may have to add more icing sugar , then more butter to compensate for the water if there 's more than 1/4 cup in your original biscuit icing .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
end question
start question
In what ways does the size of the baking pan matter while baking cakes ?
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
Note : This answer goes in a bit more detail than necessary to answer the question . If you truly only care about the hydration , please only read " Water/flour ratio " and " Flavor of the bread " . I have added the other information as well since the effects are similar to that of a change in hydration . I 've frequently baked ( about once to twice a week ) with sourdough for 4 years now . I 'm not a professional . The only thing I can take a bit of pride in is that a professional baker who tested a loaf of my sourdough bread told me that it 's " fantastic , considering the little possibilities available to control the conditions the sourdough and loaf are exposed to at home " . So while far from perfect , I 'd consider my sourdough breads and knowledge pretty good . Most of what I 'm writing now was first read on the internet somewhere and confirmed through testing it with my own sourdough culture ( I 'm still using the same one I started out with ) . Apart from the flour you use , there are several factors that affect the taste of the resulting bread : Temperature This has , in my experience , the biggest impact on the taste . The following rules apply : Anything over 40 ° C is deadly to the microbes in your sourdough . Lower temperature : More acetic acid , less lactic acid , yeasts develop more slowly . Higher temperature : More lactic acid , less acetic acid , yeasts develop more quickly . Lactic acid bacteria prefer temperatures at around 30-35 ° C Yeasts like temperatures around 25 ° C best Note : Your sourdough can be 1-2 ° C warmer than the environment due to microbial activity . That can be important to keep in mind . Water/flour ratio Most of the time , people use a ratio of 1:1 water/flour for the sourdough and that will give you good results , but you can play around with that ratio to change the taste to your liking : Lower water content causes more acetic acid production and less developed yeasts Higher water content will make it easier for the yeasts to grow and increase the lactic acid content I 've found that having more than 1.5 times the amount of water compared to the flour will hardly have any effect on the dough anymore and I 'd recommend stirring the dough every couple of hours with that much water . On single staged sourdough , using less than 0.75 times the water compared to the flour is also not a good idea and you will probably be required to add yeast in the bread dough . Salt and oil Adding these , especially salt , to the sourdough already will have a considerable impact on the sourdough taste . A sourdough made with salt in it will taste quite different from one without it . I 'm not quite sure about why this is , but it may have something to do with the yeasts growing more slowly ( more information below ) . Both salt and oil will slow down the growth of the yeasts , but do n't have much of an effect on the lactic acid bacteria . Adding oil mainly affects the mechanical properties of the dough ( it will be softer and more ductile ) . It also helps with the structure of the bread ( the air bubbles in the bread will be smaller and more uniformly distributed ) , especially in the presence of an emulsifyer ( lard is both fat and an emulsifyer , so it works well in this regard ) . For this reason , it does n't make much sense to add it to the sourdough already . Of course , if the fat is n't tasteless , it will also add to the taste of the bread ( I love using natural olive oil in my wheat breads ) . Flavor of the bread Sourdough actually has some pretty complicated chemistry that I know little about . However , here are some effects that I do know : Lactic acid will give your bread a mild , sour taste . This works very well for wheat breads . Acetic acid gives you a stronger , more sour taste ( very noticable while eating ) . This works great for rye breads The amount of yeast in your sourdough also has a big impact on the smell and taste of the bread . Yeast is beneficial to the bread not only for it 's leavening properties . Apart from CO2 , it also produces ethanol , which will esterify the lactic acid to ethyl lactate over time , which in turn has a strong flavor . Okay I think that 's it . I hope this helps you .
Blind baking is indeed just baking without a filling -- it can be fully or partially . Typically you do this because your filling will either need to bake for a shorter time than your crust ( a quiche for example ) or not at all ( a pie filled with some kind of pre cooked/set custard ) . It can also be done to help ' set ' a crust against a filling that will make it rather soggy . Oftentimes you will want something neutral in the shell to keep it from becoming a big bubbly , puffed up crust . This may be in the form of formal ' pie weights ' or just a piece of parchment paper and some dry beans will suffice . I have no idea why it 's called blind baking , but the <URL> site is notoriously good at word origins .
It Depends . First off , by ' goes bad ' I 'm assuming you mean both ' stale and unpalatable ' and ' moldy and not food-safe ' . And for both of those , it 's going to greatly depend on what ingredient , what you 're making , and how you 're making it . In the case of tomatoes , if you take your batch of ' last-legs ' tomatoes ( and I 'm assuming you mean there 's almost an unsafe level of bacterial/mold growth on them ) , and thoroughly cook them into a sauce , i.e. bring to a boil for an extended amount of time , you 'll ( hopefully ) kill of the microbes , and inactivate the toxins created by those bacteria , you will have a generally safe-to-eat sauce . Compared with a similarly cooked sauce from fresher tomatoes , it will probably get moldy at roughly the same average rate . However , it will probably taste worse . The ' last-legs ' sauce will get to unpalatable faster than the fresh one . Generally , if you 're able to cook something thoroughly , you 'll generally ' reset ' the microbe growth timeline back to the starting-point . With meat , however , you usually do n't want to cook it to the point of sterility . ( If you do n't believe me , boil a steak for an hour . Then try to eat it . ) So if you have a last-legs steak , I would n't cook it , then store it for a week in the fridge . Making a stew might be a good move , however .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
I usually put tinfoil down and then lightly oil it . If done carefully , the tray stays clean and does n't need to be washed and the foil can be thrown out ( or used for a second batch of veggies if you have one ) .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
This is what <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has to say about it : Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost . And instead of light and fluffy , most often they are dense and crumbly . We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems . Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan , absorbed by the salt , and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes , making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy . All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables . Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry , crisp skin . A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we did n't have to crowd the potatoes , and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan . I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy , without it getting hard . Like the above says , the potato itself seems fluffier . The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well . Incidentally , you can reuse the salt over and over again , so it 's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method . You 'll want to keep separate salt for things like this , though , since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit . EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish ( for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt ) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F ( 232C ) for 1 1/4 hours . Remove foil , brush potatoes with oil , raise oven temp to 500F ( 260C ) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes , until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
If you are using a additional containers or surfaces in the oven for baking , you should absolutely pre-heat it with the oven . Use an IR thermometer to measure the actual temperature of the container - a dutch oven or heavy stone will take longer to come up to temperature than the air in the oven will , so the oven will claim to be preheated sooner than it is actually ready . Remember that temperature and heat are two different things - one of the benefits of using a baking stone or dutch oven or other " heavy " thing is that it stores a lot of HEAT . Air at 450F and Cast Iron at 450F contain very different amounts of heat , and it is heat that will bake your bread . You can tell that they have soaked up as much heat as they can when their temperature is close to your oven set-point , which will take a while . The only possible exception to this would be if you are just using a thin sheet metal steam tray to cover your pizza stone to trap steam , since it has so little thermal mass . A thin tray could probably be put over the bread without preheating the tray since it wo n't absorb or store much thermal energy . To prevent burning , choose containers with a good , solid handle , and get quality oven mitts , preferably with long-ish sleeves to protect your forearms .
I 've had good luck baking naan on an indoor grill . I have an electric one , but you could use a stovetop one as well . Just apply a little butter , ghee , or spray oil , wipe it off , and bake . ( Click for larger images ) <URL> <URL> I used an alternative method to make lavash : an inverted wok over a stove burner . You 'll need a gas stove to do this one . I applied them dry , cooked about 1-2 minutes on one side only . You can brush with butter or ghee after they 're done . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Your clarification means a lot -- " baked " potato in the U.S. tends to be a whole potato cooked on its own , where the insides become fluffy and creamy , and is done with larger starchy white potatoes , or sweet potatoes work well , too . Roasted potatoes , on the other hand , tends to be ( in the U.S. ) be smaller " new " potatoes , waxy potatoes , or even larger starchy potatoes cut up ( eg , ' oven fries ' ) . The starchy potatoes only really hold up well when roasting if it 's very high heat or a short amount of time -- if you 're going to be cooking them with the roast as there 's going to be moisture in there , I 'd go for a waxy potato ( eg , Red Bliss ) . As for the browning -- probably coat them well with oil , and if they 're not brown enough for your liking when you pull the roast , as you 're going to have to rest it anyway , drain the meat juices , crank the oven up to somewhere around 450F ( 230C ) and leave the potatoes in for a few extra minutes . ps . yes , I know a sweet potato is n't a potato . And I also tend to use Yukon Gold for just about everything , as it makes great baked potatoes , and roasted potatoes ( although , not sure how well with a roast at the same time ) and they 're good in pot roast and stews if you do n't add them too early .
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
The kind of oil you use in baking is mostly a matter of personal preference . Any neutral oil ( no strong flavor ) will do . I suggest you use an oil that you keep around for another purpose , which is not too expensive . Some good candidates include : Canola oil Peanut oil ( refined , except for those with peanut allergies ) Generic " vegetable " oil Grapeseed oil is also excellent but tends to expensive . Oils you would want to avoid due to the fact that they bring more flavor which may not be what you want in baked goods include : Olive oil Sesame oil Unrefined oils of all sorts
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
end question
start question
Reasons for Discarding the Core of the Onion When Chopping ?
There is one reason I might do this . If the core is green , that is starting to form a sprout . I cut that out as it can be bitter . Otherwise I do n't know why one would do that .
Pretty much everything I 've read ( <URL> ) says not to use wood , because the oils from the peppers will penetrate the board and transfer , and hold there indefinitely , even after thorough washings . <URL> is full of people with personal experience transferring the heat to later meals . That said , as with Jefromi , I 've cut hot peppers on wood before and not noticed any transfer . Specifically , home grown habaneros and jalapenos on maple boards . Maybe I 'm just acclimated to the heat and do n't notice , but those recommendations are not in line with my personal experience . I do thoroughly scrub my boards after use , but that probably is n't washing away any residual oils . If you really want to be safe , for example if someone in your house is heat sensitive or you have small children helping in the kitchen , you can dedicate a board to cutting peppers , or just cut peppers on a small plastic board and wash thoroughly after each use .
There actually does n't seem to be a special word for this as a technique - as common as it is ( to add an egg to the top of a dish and use the runny yolk as sauce ) , it is usually just the dish name " topped with an egg " or " topped with a fried egg " . Sometimes the egg is fried , occasioanlly poached , sometimes it is cracked on top of the dish and cooked in the residual heat - the goal of having the yolk serve as sauce remains the same , though . Some dish variations specify the egg on top - in some south American countries , a steak topped with an egg is called a " <URL> " or riding steak . I have heard of pancakes topped with a fried egg being called a " texas one-eye " , though i ca n't find a citation just now . Pasta with a raw egg added , which is supposed to be cooked in the residual heat and make a sauce of the yolk - is pasta " <URL> " . Its a little funny , but as common as it is to find a dish with topped with an egg , so the yolk will double as sauce - it does n't seem to have a name more specific . ( And it is really common , all sorts of cultures have <URL> ) . You can say " topped with an egg " , or use ElendilTheTall or ESultanik 's suggestions for how to specify the soft-cooked nature of the fried egg , and people will probably understand you . Edit : with the help of some comments from Andrew Mattson , Relaxed , and Chuu , we now have a potential term : steak " Au Cheval " ( French ) or beef " a cavalo " ( south American ) means a steak with an egg on top . The words look similar-ish enough to seem related in word appearance and meaning , yet from two different countries - which translate the term to horse riding or horseback steak , meaning the egg is on top of the dish . So with that commonality , we might take the term " Au Cheval " and take it to mean when an egg is laid on top of , or " riding " the dish . As a term it wo n't be too well known right now , someone may not be understood if you just ask for a sandwich or veggie hash " au cheval " ... but if enough people see this definition , or start using it , it may become the official term for the cooking technique !
I have seen recipes that call for chopped white onions instead of pearl onions , which leads me to believe it is feasible . The texture might be different ; when cooked , pearl onions tend to have a different sort of bite to them , much like a grape , revealing a burst of flavor after a slight resistance , whereas chopped fullsize onions tend to be more one-note and soft . I do n't know for sure what pickling does to the texture , but if it is beneficial to use whole onions for a similar effect , you 'll lose that . I suspect the flavor penetration would be greater , however , due to the cutting .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
For burgers I buy 2-3 different cuts - usually some sirloin and the end of a tenderloin ( fattier and cheaper ) and whatever else looks good . Slice thinly and stick in the freezer for 20 mins or so before you start grinding . I then mix in some finely minced onion and garlic , salt , pepper and a little Worcestershire sauce ( all optional and to taste ) before grilling .
Milk wo n't help you - it 's mostly water , and gluten develops from flour ( more accurately , specific proteins in flour ) and water . The way to reduce gluten development is to incorporate more fat into the batter . Lipids are hydrophobic and will prevent further hydration of the glutenin . Using a lower-protein flour will also help . If you 're not already using cake flour , the reason it 's called cake flour is because of the lower protein content . That being said , have you actually tried leaving the batter coarse ? Just because the batter is lumpy does not mean that the cake will have big lumps . The entire mixture is wet , so unless you leave huge lumps of dry flour in the batter , you wo n't end up with a lumpy cake . There 's a difference between " do n't overmix " and " do n't mix " - you 're supposed to mix enough to incorporate , just do n't try homogenize it .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
The heat is the same ; all peppers contain <URL> . The <URL> defines heat in terms of capsaicin content . Use the peppers that have the flavor you want , and make it as hot as you want , and you 'll be set . And the flavor besides heat is definitely concentrated in the flesh , so you should n't notice any real difference in pepper flavor either .
Clearly , your flatmate was misinformed . Firstly , Italian cuisine is defined regionally . There are vast differences throughout the country , usually defined by local ingredients and historical influences . However , there are many Italian dishes ... from north to south that contain both onion and garlic . It could be true that someone 's specific recipe for , spinach , for example may only have onion ... or only have garlic , but if you like the combination , there is no reason not to use it . There is no such general " rule " in Italian cuisine .
The okara has some unextracted protein and sugar but it also has a large quantity of fiber . That fiber will prevent the protein from properly coagulating . If you leave in all the okara you get soybean porridge . I imagine you could leave in a portion of the okara and you would get a fragile but hearty tofu . The problem with this is that , with most tofu recipes , the beans are not cooked long enough for the okara to be palatable . With all that sugar it would also give rise to much more flatulence . You do n't have to throw the okara out . There are many recipes that make use of the okara for its fiber . It is pretty straight forward to use it in baked goods . Toasting it gives it more interesting flavor . If you want to look into tofu-like products that use the entire bean you could research tempeh . The whole beans are fermented so you get a meaty product with all the nutrition of the whole soy bean .
Actually , hard boiling is one of the recommended uses for older eggs , since <URL> . I 'd highly recommend against using old eggs if you were going to whip the whites , for example , or any other heavy " structural " application . Quiche would probably be fine .
Onions always benefit from a few minutes on their own to soften and start sweetening . Garlic burns easily , especially when finely chopped or crushed , so in general should not be fried as long as onion . Having said that , when doing a quick stir fry or similar dish , you can throw in the garlic first for 10-20 seconds so that it flavours the oil .
This phenomenon affects fruits much worse than vegetables actually . The FDA published a report that cut or peeled fruits will lose half their vitamin C content in 1-2 weeks . Over 10-25 % of this loss will occur in fruits in only 5 days . For vegetables there exists a similar , albeit less pronounced effect . When cut the flesh inside of the vegetable is exposed to oxygen and the protection provided by the peel or covering is lost . That being said , the process of these vegetables losing nutrients is not an immediate one . Realistically the loss that occurs between you cutting the vegetables and placing them in a salad is probably distinctly minimal . I would n't worry too much about the nutrient loss as long as you are n't cutting the vegetables and then storing them for a long period of time . See : <URL>
The green shoot in the middle of a clove of garlic is said to have a somewhat bitter flavor .
The first yeast was " just there " - in the environment , everywhere . People discovered very early on that leaving the dough ( or just a flour-water slurry ) out would lead to it getting " sour " and " bubbly " , thus leavening the bread : What we today call sourdough is in fact a mixture of yeasts and bacteria ( lactobacillae ) . The origins of bread-making are so ancient that everything said about them must be pure speculation . ( M.G. Gaenzle : Encyclopedia of Food Microbiology ) Early sources are the Bible ( - > the explicit demand for of " unleavened " or " unsoured " bread during Passover suggesting that otherwise was the norm ) and sources from Ancient Egypt . The " modern " yeast that was explicitly added was mentioned by <URL> in his Naturalis historia as a foam skimmed from beer : In Gaul and Spain , where they make a drink by steeping corn in the way that has been already described - they employ the foam which thickens upon the surface as a leaven : hence it is that the bread in those countries is lighter than that made elsewhere . Source : <URL> . Pliny the Elder . John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. H.T. Riley , Esq. , B.A. London . Taylor and Francis , Red Lion Court , Fleet Street . 1855 . Sources from the 18th century describe how the <URL> ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) was used for baking , leading to the " specialized strains " of <URL> cultivated separately when the brewers switched to bottom-fermenting yeast ( S. pastorianus ) in the 19th century , which preferred cooler temperatures and was not as easy to harvest as the top-fermenting types . The use of separately cultivated yeast allowed to bake " milder " breads than the sourdough types with their typical acidic undertones but is restricted to certain flour types .
To a certain extent , it depends on the condiment . For things like oil or vinegar , where germs generally ca n't really survive anyway , there is no need for refrigeration . On the other hand , things like ketchup , mayonnaise , or any other emulsions ( tahini for instance ) should be kept in the fridge . It also depends on whether the pack is sealed or has come into contact with air already . For example , sealed packs of mayonnaise can be kept at room temperature , though an open jar must be refrigerated . Aside from that , it 's always a good idea to keep things in sealed containers , and away from direct sunlight .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
It should n't have any effect , in the sense of any flavors leaching . If your container does change the taste , you should replace it . But it would be very unusual to chance upon a taste-changing container . Most cookware is non reactive , and containers meant for preparing and serving tea even less so . For example , untreated aluminium is reactive , but I 've never heard of it being used for tea pots or tea mugs . Steel is completely OK in that regard . Melamine also has no effect on taste , but see the footnote for safety considerations . The most likely condition under which you find a taste change would be if you are using ceramic teapots or mugs which were not mass produced for daily use , but made by a pottery hobbyist or by some exotic traditional technique which does not reach the convenience standards of modern mass production . In that case , you can simply switch the container to a neutral one , if the taste bothers you , or if you are worried about the safety of glaze leaching into your drink . Why porcelain or glazed earthenware No special reason . What you cite is an ISO standard . It was n't made for people making tea at home , they wanted to have perfect reproducibility , and the easiest way is to restrict as many variables as possible . So they took one of the traditional choices and prescribed it in their standard . There is no reason to follow that standard when you make tea for drinking . The material affects the taste of the tea in other ways : it has an influence on the speed of cooling down . But it is impossible to make a general recommendation here , as 1 ) there are many other factors influencing the cooling speed , and 2 ) people have different preferences for the taste of tea . The only relevance here is that , if you have found a process which produces tea you like with one set of utensils , it might produce a different taste if you use a different teapot , and you 'll have to experiment until you have calibrated the process to your preferences again . But the differences here are subtle , you have to be a pretty dedicated tea drinker to be bothered by them . Footnote on melamine safety : Melamine is a resin which contains traces of formaldehyde , a known carcinogen . The formaldehyde does not end up in the food at room temperature , but it starts leaching at higher temperatures , this is why it is not microwave safe . As the leaching process is gradual , and depends on pH besides temperature , there is no hard temperature prescription beyond which it is considered unsafe to use . But I could n't find any source rating melamine for over 100 Celsius , and some of them give a lower temperature such as 60 or 70 Celsius . If you are concerned about the formaldehyde , you are probably better off choosing another mug . Porcelain is the standard choice , but steel and some plastics are also frequently used . For a short consumer info on melamine , see <URL> .
end question
start question
salmon + microwave = BLAM , any suggestions ?
Besides not microwaving it ? Cover your filets with a paper towel , it will catch any exploding bits . Seriously though , it should n't take but 6-8 minutes to sear a refrigerated salmon filet in a hot pan . Do this , your taste buds will thank you .
I ca n't back this up with any evidence , but I think the reason it does n't work well is that at the temperature required to caramelize sugar , the other " impurities " in brown sugar will be burned and gross . You might be able to get a similar effect by making regular white-sugar caramel and then mixing in molasses after it has begun to cool .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
There is certainly a difference between different yeasts . Different kinds of yeast react differently , are happy at different temperature ranges , produce different amounts of gas , live for different amounts of time . In my little world , however , it 's better to use a yeast that you use commonly and understand than it is to experiment with a different yeast that may not behave the way you expect . The thing is , " bakers yeast " is a generic term . If it called for rapid rise yeast , and all you had was active dry yeast , I 'd say to go out and buy some , or your bread would end up flat . Chances are you have one of those two kinds . They 'd both work in most recipes , but each have their peculiarities , and you 'd need to adjust . I 'd give it a shot , and see how it comes out . If your bread ends up whacky , then try something else .
Microwaving meat to defrost it tends to start cooking it at the edges and generally make it go weird and rubbery ( scientific terms I know ) . So yes , it is better to defrost ' naturally ' in the fridge , in terms of quality . Freezing damages meat by bursting the cell walls as their water expands . This affects the texture more than the flavour . The damage is done when freezing , not cooking from frozen , so the latter should not effect taste . The main issue with cooking from frozen is that if the item is big ( say , a roasting joint ) , the outside can be overdone by the time the middle gets up to a safe temperature .
You do get some reflection of microwaves off a glass or plastic cover ( <URL> ) Do n't use metal lids . Neither glass nor Plexiglass plastic absorb much of the beam . The question then becomes : Does reflection off a lid slow heating more than retaining heat in an enclosed vessel speeds it ? Anecdotal , but experience tells me that using a plate over a bowl or a casserole dish cover routinely gives hotter , more uniformly heated food . Probably true for plastic wrap too , but I do n't use that in a microwave since I had a piece of it melt on me .
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
Physics to the rescue : Contrary to popular belief you can not see steam . What you can see is tiny droplets of water that were steam ( = gaseous form of water ) before , but have condensed ( = returned to liquid state ) again on very small particles like dust motes . If the amount of droplets is big enough in a certain volume of air , they become visible . In other words , you have created a small cloud in your kitchen . Now back to your pot : If the pot is simmering , a lot of water will condense over or near the pot , especially if your kitchen is rather cool . At a full boil , the steam disperses more , so when the condensation happens , the tiny droplets are spread out wider , making the " cloud " harder to see . Also , the air around the pot is likely to be a bit warmer , so that the gaseous H2O will likely condense at a greater distance from the source anyway . This may lead to the assumption that a boiling pot emits less steam when actually the opposite is the case . If you want to verify this , look for condensation away from the heat source , e.g. your cool kitchen windows . There , the different amounts should be very obvious .
Why actually , I have just the link for you . <URL> Is exactly what you are looking for . And <URL> for supplies .
The leavening action of baking soda begins as soon as it is moistened - that is as soon as you mix your wet and dry ingredients your baking soda begins the chemical reaction that creates the carbon dioxide which causes the rise in your quick bread . Because of this I would say that there is no advantage , but in fact a disadvantage to resting a quick bread . Also , it is usually recommended to mix quick breads as little as possible and over mixing them can cause them to be tough .
It 's reminding you that flipping meat halfway through the defrost cycle will help prevent the bottom half cooking , while the top remains frozen solid .
That white stuff is albumen , the same protein that makes the white of chicken eggs . The albumen is part of the salmon 's blood , which means that your fillet was fresh . A trick for dealing with it was developed by Bruno Goussault while collaborating with chef Michel Richard from Citronelle in DC : soak the salmon pieces in an ice cold brine . The <URL> that told the story recommends soaking the salmon fillets for ten minutes in a 10 % brine ( by weight ) . To make the <URL> , dissolve three tablespoons of Kosher salt for every cup of ice cold water and make as many cups as you need .
Gummy candy is essentially just water , sugar , gelatin , and a few other additives like food colouring . Gelatin 's gel strength <URL> is partially dependent on its concentration . The more concentrated , the harder it gets . Gummy candies left sitting around will lose water due to evaporation , which makes the gelatin more concentrated and thus harder , and if you watch carefully you 'll notice that the moisture loss also makes the gummies shrink . To soften them , you need to rehydrate them . Toss them in a bowl of hot or warm water ( do n't use cold water - gelatin is only soluble in warmer water ) until they reach the desired consistency - usually around 20 minutes or so . The longer you leave them in the water , the more water they 'll absorb , the more they 'll grow and the softer they 'll get .
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
Besides not microwaving it ? Cover your filets with a paper towel , it will catch any exploding bits . Seriously though , it should n't take but 6-8 minutes to sear a refrigerated salmon filet in a hot pan . Do this , your taste buds will thank you .
The short answer is : it depends , on exactly how you cooked the dish , and what other ingredients are in it . In practice , for a long simmered dish , the answer is going to approach about 20 % as documented in the <URL> under the table entry " ALC BEV , STIRRED , BKD/SIMMRD 1.5 HR " . Increasing time to 2.5 hours would go down to about 5 % .
When you find cheap lemons , buy a lot . Squeeze half a lemon in each of the cavities of an ice tray . Freeze . Within a day , remove the frozen slivers from the tray to a ziploc bag in the freezer . You now have measured units of fresh lemon juice you may use for cooking and will keep for months . The frozen lemons are a bit less acid than fresh juice , but full of flavor . You can do the same with limes .
Not being aware of your location , some general tips : 1 ) Buy your fish from a fishmonger , and tell him/her what you are using it for . You want to do business with somebody who 's business is selling fish and only selling fish . They are going to know what 's been stored to eaten raw standards in a way that the just above minimum wage fish guy at your grocery store does n't . 2 ) Do n't buy it early . Buy it the day you mean to consume it or the day that you going to prep it . This question can help walk you through <URL> 3 ) Take a cooler to get your fish . You have to maintain the freshness , that means not allowing it raise in temperature anymore than you have to .
The process of pasteurizing milk is to treat it with heat to kill microorganisms such as Brucella , Campylobacter , E. coli O157 : H7 , Listeria , Mycobacterium bovis , Salmonella , and Yersinia that may or may not be in the milk . This is a precautionary step that is taken when you are not 100 % sure whether your source of milk is disease free . Pasteurization can occur at different temperature for a different amount of time but the easiest temperature to pasteurize milk in the microwave is to bring it to 161 F for at least 15 seconds . Pasteurizing the milk in the microwave is a bit tricky because overheating it make cause it to boil over and it also heats the milk very unevenly . In the worse case scenario it can curdle if you overheat it . You will need to buy a thermometer for this method . You first want to microwave the milk for a minute . Then you want to stir the milk and take a temperature reading from the stirred milk . Now you want to continue to put the milk in the microwave in short 15-30 second intervals ( decreasing as it gets closer to 161 F ) and stirring and taking the temperature reading each time . When it has finally reach 161 F , you want to heat it for 15 extra seconds in the microwave and at that point it should be pasteurized . Another thing you can do is to just pasteurize it at home using your usual stove method and store the milk for later use . Once it has been pasteurized , as long as you refrigerate the milk , it will be good for a while . Just remember to quickly chill the milk ( using a ice water bath ) after you pasteurize it before you put it into the refrigerator .
When I was a kid , we used to run over them with the car . Put a bunch in the driveway and drive over them so they got a single pass from a tire . That usually crushed a few beyond help , but just split the majority open nicely . They were still a lot of trouble to pick from the hulls , and ultimately not very nice to eat , IMO .
end question
start question
what makes red tomato sauce turn orange in colour ?
This often happens when the tomatoes used are not fully mature . Although apparently are completely red , the parties less red lighten the sauce . Alternatively , depends on the quality of tomatoes . The Native Americans tomatoes were yellow ( hence the Italian name " golden apple " = " pomo d'oro " = " pomodoro " ) . Through the selections have become red . But remaining mixed colors , which are " not red " but " reddish " . Or yellow - orange . In the United States , the orange tomatoes are sold seasonally in the markets of agricultural producers : it is " heirloom tomatoes " or " tomatoes tradition " ( heirloom tomatoes ) , ie those that were cultivated before 1800 and which for centuries delighted the palates of our ancestors . The study conducted by the chemist Betty J. Burry and biologist Betty K. Ishida has shown that orange tomatoes contain more lycopene ( an important antioxidant molecule ) of the common red tomatoes . The difference is due to the chemical form of lycopene in red tomatoes that occurs in the trans form while in the orange tomatoes in tetra-cis form . Research conducted in California and in Ohio ( USA ) have shown that the form of the tetra-cis lycopene is more efficiently absorbed by the body compared to the trans form . The research group has also assessed the oxidative damage : lycopene and other antioxidant molecules , in fact , may protect both the cells and the essential fatty acids from oxidation . Using a procedure known as " TBARS assay " the researchers noted that oxidative damage is decreased by consuming tomato sauce and tomato sauce red orange , but the damage reduction was greater in the diet that included the consumption of orange tomatoes . ( * ) <URL> Data di pubblicazione : 05/07/2012 Autore : Emanuela Fontana Copyright : www.freshplaza.it Personally I can say that in the diets of very young children less red tomatoes ( fresh , peeled and seeded ) are preferred , because they are more digestible and light . PS A very prolonged cooking of the sauce , on the contrary , gives a very dark and indigestible sauce ( tomato paste ) which is used more as a seasoning for cooking of regional recipes . Is never used on pasta , as the taste is altered and too strong . EDIT Yes it happens very often , and we all start with deep red tomatoes , san marzano and so on . But often the salsa comes oranges . <URL> that it comes from blending tomatoes after mixing with oil . But I never put so much oil to think that it could depend by oil . And it happens to me too . And the other persons disagree too . Everyone does buy san marzano tomatoes ( or similar ) , very mature and red . But when you cut them , inside they can be hard and a bit pale , not really red . And flavonoid and lycopene are into any tomato , just in different or more or less visible quantity . ( flavonoyd becomes from latin : flavus = yellow or blond / leukos is from greek = white ) . To me , since the original DNA is yellow , it could be that some genetic trait has remained , not limited to only one quality but in general the whole botanical species , and sometimes emerges . The major dietary source of lycopene is represented by the tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) from which it takes its name , and its derivatives , in which represents 60 % of the total content in carotenoids . The lycopene content is influenced by the level of maturation of the tomato , has been calculated that in fact red and ripe tomatoes are present 50 mg / kg of lycopene . But of course , i can wrong . <URL> / <URL> <URL> " The date of his arrival in Europe in 1540 when the Spaniard Hernán Cortés returned to his homeland and brought the specimens , but its cultivation and propagation waited until the second half of the seventeenth century . Arrives in Italy in 1596 but only later , finding favorable climatic conditions in the south of the country , you have the color change of its color from the original and distinctive gold color , which gave its name to the plant , the current red , thanks to selections and subsequent grafts . " EDIT II @ MandoMando Yes , I agree . What you say agrees with my experience . I must say that it is false that " many often " happens , it just happens sometimes . Normally remain red . But I never use electrical equipment , only hand devices , like these : The first is precisely for the tomato sauce . The second pass any cooked vegetables . But if you want , you can tray the ancient recipe , that I use only when I have guests and I want to offer some pasta with a fresh made sauce . You must blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin breaks down ( usually 20-30 seconds ) . Then remove the tomatoes from the water and peel them right away , still intact and hot . This is the method used by our grandmothers who were canned . After removing the skin , you can put the whole tomatoes into the jars and sterilize them . Or you can make a sauce with olive oil , salt and herbs ( as I do ) or with other ingredients such as carrots , celery or whatever . I do not think that modern industries for storage of tomato sauce stil
I 'm pretty sure the word " live " means that it 's raw and uncooked . I found a recipe for <URL> that 's very similar to the menu item you describe . It uses zucchini " noodles " , cashew " ricotta " , along with marinated mushrooms , and tomato sauce to make a raw and meatless " lasagna " . The only apparent difference is that the recipe calls for spinach pesto instead of pine nut pesto .
From <URL> : Sodium nitrite , used as a curing agent , is what gives pepperoni the pink part of its distinct orange-pink color , while paprika or other capsicum provides the orange part . It cites a <URL> as the source .
You will need to be careful about extra liquid in your sauce . Your base recipe should be adaptable . Go ahead and use the garlic and onion , but I would omit the white wine . If you are using canned whole tomatoes , drain liquid before using them . Simmer it to reduce it down until it is " spreadable " rather than " pour-able " . We make a lot of home-made pizza sauce with canned whole San Marzano tomatoes , drained and puree 'd in blender . Salt , pepper , garlic and a few spices . My husband loves bright red color in the sauce so a bit of citric acid does the trick . Enjoy your pizza .
The difference between red wines and white wines are that red wines are fermented with some of the skins , while white wines are not . Tannins come from the skins , and make people 's mouth feel dry , hence more tannins mean a wine is called dry . So you can not have a low tannin dry wine , as dry means tannic by definition . Much of a wine 's characteristics come from the properties of the earth , water , and climate that the grapes are grown in ( the french call the sum of these characteristics terroir ) , so you can get a dry wine from most grapes depending these factors . However , some grapes produce less tannic skins , and therefore overall produce less tannic , ie fruitier wines . Common fruitier red varieties are pinot noir , garancha ( granache ) , primitivo ( Zinfandel ) , and pinotage . All these varieties should be available in US supermarkets . If you can find an Oregon pinot noir then that would be my choice , they are very good value and great tasting wines . California zinfandel used to be considered cheap plonk ( because it was ) , but lately has had a resurgence and there are some fantastic wines from this grape .
You need a sharper knife . With a dull knife , you 'll have trouble getting through the skin , and end up tearing and smashing , releasing a lot of juice . With a sharp knife , you 'll get through the skin cleanly and leave the tomatoes much more intact .
Tomatoes grow on a vine . But it is possible to pick them unripe , ship them unripe ( which is much easier than shipping ripe tomatoes ) , then gas them with ethylene at the destination . Ethylene acts as a plant hormone and causes ripening . But tomatoes ripened in storage do n't taste the same as vine ripened ones . The compounds a tomato builds are dependent on the amount of UV light it gets , the surrounding temperature , the speed of ripening , the nutrients it gets during ripening , and many other variables . There are lots of tasty compounds it creates while ripening on the vine , which are absent when it ripens in storage . This is why vine ripened tomatoes are tastier . It is also more expensive to let them ripen naturally , therefore the producers label the vine ripened ones as a sign of quality , else customers would n't be willing to pay the premium .
To replace the tomato juice your primary concerns will be the flavor component the tomato adds , as well as the textural element . Any numbers of vegetables , steamed then pureed will give you the texture ; I would recommend cauliflower for creamy , butternut squash for smooth , or carrot for spicy dishes . In terms of subbing out tomato in gazpacho and trying to retain its character this is not quite possible as it is central to the dish . However going with beet would give you an intense soup , a cold potato cream would also work well , as would any other vegetable ; however they would not really yield gazpacho
This <URL> , which wipes right off and is indeed harmless , is called the " bloom " of the grape or sometime the " blush " . As described <URL> , ( the wiki for Fermentation in winemaking ) , it contains trace amounts of natural yeast , though thought to be the result of ambient yeast rather than the result of growth process proper . <URL> we find a more thorough answer , It 's mostly harmless wax , says Kay Bogart , a winemaker who works in outreach for the University of California at Davis 's viticulture program . The grape plant produces it to protect the berries from moisture loss . It 's also often just plain old dust , adds Jim LaMar , a professor of wine sensory evaluation at California State University , Fresno . Until recently , winemakers believed the white stuff was yeasts , responsible for wine fermentation . Now they believe such yeasts are airborne . In any case , that white stuff is n't pesticide residue . Which is not to say that there is n't pesticide residue on the grape , so wash it anyway before you pop it into your mouth . In the book Caravaggio : A Life Sacred and Profane by Andrew Graham-Dixon , we find of Roman mythology the following statement regarding Bacchus , the ancient god of wine and intoxication , The bloom on the grapes , which dusts them with a layer of whiteness and dulls the reflected light caught in their opalescent skins , is echoed by the dry and whitish lips of the god himself . <URL>
The ideal tool depends on what you 're trying to do with it . If you want something nice and fine , which will release as much flavor as possible , avoid getting any of the pith , and not add distracting texture to a dish , use a fine rasp grater ( sometimes known by the brand name microplane ) : ( There are also coarse rasp graters . That wo n't be any better than a standard grater . You want one that looks like the picture . ) If you want something small but visible , use a citrus zester : You can get skinny little strips that tend to curl with the small holes at the end , and bigger curls like you 've seen on the rims of cocktails with the wider hole in the middle . ( Edit : added the second picture . That looks like it was fun . ) Finally , if you want big pieces to put in something to cook in something , then maybe fish out later , you can use a normal vegetable peeler :
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
All that is meant here by " turn out " is to take the mass that you have begun to mix in the bowl , and dump it all onto your ( floured ) counter to begin kneading . Turn out just means to dump . To move .
Black bean paste is also incorporated into Asian cuisine , and has a similar flavor , although earthier . Add a little sugar , maybe a little ground cashew or peanuts for nuttiness . It wo n't be the same , but it should work well enough . Since black beans are more common , this may work well enough for you .
Any vinegar or lemon juice or any other acid it there for those two reasons . To soften the meat and to impart flavor .
Heinz and some other companies sell a product that they call ' chili sauce ' , which might be what you 're looking for . It 's a tomato-based sauce , with some spices and seasoning , but it 's not particularly spicy . If you have access to Dutch &amp; German ingredients , you might replace it with one of the thicker shashlik sauces ( aka ' curry ketchup ' ) . If you have access to UK ingredients , you might try brown sauce . If you wanted to make it yourself from scratch , see <URL>
There is no single answer to this question . Instead , a number of factors ( not including the weather ) affect the perceived tenderness or moistness of a steak or other cut of meat . Overview There are two major factors that effect the perceived moistness of a steak or other cut of meat : The amount of connective tissue . The more connective tissue the meat has , the tougher and chewier it will be , at least until the collagen that composes the connective tissue is converted to gelatin The temperature to which the cut is cooked . The higher the temperature , up to about 165 F , the more different types of proteins are denatured and coagulated , squeezing out moisture , leading to a dryer , tougher mouth feel . Additionally , some minor factors contribute to or enhance perceived tenderness or moistness : Cutting the meat against the grain enhances the perception of tenderness . Marinating in an acid or enzymatically active marinade may enhance tenderness Mechanically processing , cutting , or pounding the meat ( as in a cube steak ) to disrupt its fibers can enhance tenderness . Connective Tissue The more an animal uses a muscle , the more connective tissue that muscle will contain . For example , the shoulder of the animal is usually worked very hard ( it has to keep the animal standing up ) for pigs and cows , so it has a low of connective tissue . Other muscles are used rarely , such as the tenderloin , and do n't develop very much connective tissue . The connective tissue is composed of a protein called collagen , which is tough and rubbery , and makes cuts high in it seem much tougher than those which are not . However , with certain types of cooking , collagen can be converted to gelatin , and convert from being tough to being unctuous and soft . Temperature As the temperature in the steak rises , more and more proteins tighten and denature , squeezing out moisture , resulting in a drier , tougher mouth feel . Various groups of proteins denature at different temperatures , so the higher the internal temperature , the more moistness will be squeezed out , and the drier and tougher the steak will seem . By the time the cut reaches about 165 F , all of the proteins are denatured , and it is fully well done , and as tough as it will be . According to <URL> : 122 ° F - Myosin protein in mammal meat begins to denature . 130-135 ° F - Target temp for medium rare lamb chops and beef steaks , the temperature at which they are at optimum tenderness , flavor , and juiciness . 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . 140 ° F - Collagens begin to contract and squeeze juice from within muscle fibers into the spaces between the fibers and out to the surface . 140 ° F - Myoglobin denatures rapidly and red or pink juices begin to turn clear or tan and bead up on the surface . 150 ° F - Actin protein begins to denature making meat tougher and drier . 155 ° F - Well done for most meats . Most ( but not all ) bacteria killed in less than 30 seconds but spores can survive to much higher temps . High Connective Tissue Cuts When cuts are high in connective tissue , the same toughening and drying that occurs in low connective cuts happens as the internal temperature rises to about 165 F. However , starting at about 170-180 F , a new process begins to engage : the collagen ( the very protein that made these cuts tougher to start with ) begins to transform in the presense of water into gelatin , a different protein . The gelatin lubricates the meat , and gives it a newly unctuous and moist mouth-feel , despite being very well done . It takes time for gelatin conversion to occur : it is not enough to simply bring the internal temperature to 180 F . It has to stay there for several hours for the conversion to have enough time to take place . This gelatin conversion is what makes slow cooking methods like braising and barbecuing so effective for tough cuts of meat . They are cooked until quite well done ( when they would be extremely tough ) , but then the conversion of the collagen to gelatin makes them much softer , and unctuous , so that they are again perceived as moist and tender . Sadly , it will not work on cuts that were fairly tender to begin with , as there is little collagen to convert to gelatin . Slicing Against the Grain Additionally , while a minor factor , the way the meat is cut into bite sized portions also effects the perception of toughness . Muscles are bundles of cells that are aligned in the same direction , like a bundle of straws . They are very , very strong in the direction that the fibers align ( along the straws ) , but not as strong against that direction ( across the straws ) . If sliced against the direction of the grain of the meat , so that the straws are cut in half , the the impression is that the meat is more tender . For example , in fajitas , the traditional flank steak or skirt steak is cooked to no more than medium rare to medium ( to minimize the toughness
According to this <URL> , you can get plump crisp and tender bacon by barely covering your bacon with water in a skillet over high heat , turning the heat down to medium when the water starts boiling and down again to medium-low once it has all evaporated and cook until ready . Having water in your skillet will keep the cooking temperature low while preserving the bacon 's moisture . As in explained in the video , once the water reaches its boiling point , the fat will be pretty much all rendered , so you 'll be less likely to burn the meat while waiting for the fat to cook off . It would seem the secret , whatever the method , is to preserve the moisture in the bacon to prevent it from going dry , while of course thoroughly cooking it . Perhaps cooking it covered with a lid would achieve something similar .
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
Details on beef color changes can be found <URL> . Briefly : When beef is first cut ( or ground or whatever ) , it has a purplish hue , caused by deoxymyoglobin , a pigment that can only exist in the absence of oxygen . When exposed to oxygen , a chemical reaction occurs , producing oxymyoglobin , which leads to the bright cherry red color most people associate with " fresh meat . " Eventually , the molecule oxydizes , producing metmyoglobin , which can no longer bind oxygen -- and this turns the meat brown . ( There are natural enzymes present which can convert back to oxymyoglobin when in the presence of sufficient oxygen , though these will eventually be depleted . Packaging can preserve the strong oxygen-rich environment for longer , which is why grocery store meat stays bright red on the surface . ) When meat is cooked , the globin denatures and forms a tan/gray hemichrome pigment which can no longer convert back to the other myoglobin pigments . Anyhow , this is all a preface to explain that certain chemical additives will change the chemistry here , pushing the reactions to move to or away from certain pigment states . The primary one that you mentioned is salt . As discussed in the linked article : If salt has been incorporated into patties or is present in the case of enhanced steaks , salt decreases metmyoglobin reducing activity allowing more MMb to accumulate [ i.e. , turning brown ] ... In addition , salt promotes heat denaturation , or breakdown , of myoglobin [ i.e. , turning tan or gray ] . Basically , salt causes the pigmentation molecules to convert faster to states resembling old or cooked meat , causing the color change you see .
end question
start question
What hot cereals can I cook by just adding hot water ?
If you try regular oats and like them , then you might try flaked/rolled barley , if you can find it . If you have refrigeration at work ( or just bring in one-day 's worth each morning ) , you could also add wheat germ ( I ca n't imagine having a bowl-ful of it , but adding some to your oats would change them up . ) Wheetabix or shredded wheat can also be prepared with boiling water for a hot cereal . Late recall - " Grape Nuts ® " is another one that can be done hot , even if it normally is n't .
I do n't know the term either . I do n't think it is established baking slang , so it is bound to vary between recipes , should you find it in another one at all . But if you got it from a bread recipe , it must be because you need optimal conditions for your yeast . The optimal temperature for yeast rising is 35 ° C , with rising being too slow below that ( but it will still happen , even at 4 ° C in the fridge ! ) and not possible at 40 ° C and above , where leavening action gets too low for practical purposes ( and at some point , the yeast dies ) . This is a nice representation of the amount of CO2 produced by yeast ( which correlates well with leavening ) at different temperatures . The difference between the low effective temperature ( 25 ° C ) , the optimal temperature ( 35 ° C ) and the upper limit of the effective temperature ( 40 ° C ) is not big , so I do n't rely on my imperfect senses and always use a thermometer when making yeast dough . But you are writing that you want a " rule of thumb " , so you probably do n't have ( or do n't want to bother with ) a thermometer in your kitchen . In this case , you can still have your bread rise well . The literal thumb is a bad choice , as it is quite insensitive , but the trick our grandmas used to gauge the temperature of infant food is still valid : use your elbow . The skin of the elbow is very thin , and it will very well notice the difference between a 35 ° C liquid ( which feels roughly the same temperature as the elbow , remember that 37 ° C are normal inside the body , not on the skin outside ) and a 40 ° C liquid ( which feels too warm ) . If you were to use your fingers or the back of your hand , you would n't be able to tell the difference well enough , and will risk overshooting and killing the yeast . There are possibly other body parts which can feel the difference ( I 'd guess the tongue , if you do n't scald it daily with hot drinks ) , but hygienewise , the elbow is probably better .
I 'll leave the question of food safety and mandatory canning or not with regard to ingredients to others , but frankly , if you have a large pot in your kitchen you have a canner . For small batches and only very occasional use , there is no need to buy a separate canner . Place a small metal rack ( if you have one small enough ) or a folded towel on the bottom of the pot ( I like to use my pasta pot with the insert ) , put jars on top and fill with water until almost to the top of the tallest jar . Yes , you can process jars of different sizes in one batch . Rule of thumb : cold jars go in cold water , hot jars in hot water . This setup is equivalent to a separate canner minus the extra gadgets like timer , thermometer / thermostat and other features that are for your comfort and ease of use , not essential for the physical process of heating and sealing the jars . So if you want to play it safe , put your sauce in the jars1 , add lids and screw them on with the bands " fingertip tight " . Place them in the water bath and slowly bring to a boil . Once your water is simmering , " canning time " starts . Off the cuff , ten to fifteen minutes should be fine for a cooked BBQ sauce , longer is n't a problem either . After that , lift the jars out and cool slowly in a drought-free area . If done correctly the lid will stick to the jar even without the bands , so you get an extra safety mechanism : If your sauce should spoil , the lid will come off , being a clear indication of trouble . But my main reason why I suggest canning the jars is this : If you ship your sauce , you have no control over the storage conditions of your jars during transit and - depending on the destination - constant refrigeration or similar might not be possible everywhere on this world . That alone would be reason enough to do the extra step , which is surprisingly easy once you give it a try . I suggest leaving the rings on during shipping and instructing the recipient to remove them on arrival to notice any signs of spoilage . 1 This includes the usual steps done even without canning , e.g. cleaning the jars and lids , " sterilizing " them in your oven or in boiling water , keeping the rims of the jars clean and filling the hot food immediately into the jars . In short , what you would normally do to ensure general cleanliness and food safety .
Surprisingly , the answer seems to be a qualified yes , however the texture is not the same . The dried gnocchi turned out to be much better if fried after boiling ; see below . Here are the results of my experiment : I dried a small amount of the fresh Gnocchi by placing them in a 150 degree ( Farenheit ) oven for about an hour , then turning off the oven and leaving them in all day . It is very dry here , so that did the trick . I boiled the dried gnocchi after several days of storage . They took about ten times longer to boil than their fresh counterparts . Even after they were fully cooked , they were not as soft as the fresh gnocchi , and they never regained their original size or shape . Overall , they were denser , firmer , and less sticky . Not desirable traits necessarily , but they were quite edible . I decided to pan-fry a small batch in about a tablespoon of oil , and these turned out wonderfully ! I have pan-fried gnocchi before , and it tends to be hard to keep them intact and keep them from sticking . The previously dried gnocchi , however , did not stick and held up to vigorous frying . The result were gnocchi with a crispy exterior and soft ( if somewhat dense ) interior . The crispy outside and flavor reminded me of samosas . These were n't just edible , they were great . I plan to dry about half of my next batch and use the dried gnocchi exclusively for frying .
Capsaicin is oil/fat-soluble so try washing your hands with a little whole milk , or rub with sour cream or vegetable oil and see if that helps . Just as you can get it in your eyes if you rub them with your fingers , I 'm sure you can easily transfer it to your baby . I 'm just surmising here , not speaking from experience so if you try any of these , be sure to let us know how they worked ... or what you did instead .
Personally , I 'd just season the pan a couple times to cover the spot ; it seems excessive to strip off all the other seasoning and start from scratch unless the pan is really deeply rusted . Other people may feel differently , of course ; there are as many opinions about caring for cast-iron as there are people that own it .
In a hot pan , the oil droplets jump off for three reasons usually : When you add oil to a hot pan that is not completely dry yet ( i.e some water present in the pan ) . This residue water will boil , turn into steam and splatter oil . When you are adding wet food to the hot oil . The water turns into steam and splatters oil . Solution : Making sure the food is fairly dry before putting in oil . E.g. drying vegetables with a paper towel . When you are turning food . Solution : as @Wayfaring Stranger said , flip to food towards the opposite end , not towards you . Another thing might be that you are using a very shallow walled-pan , but mostly , splattering oil is due to water being present .
Charcoal can get to 700 degrees F but in normal use you 're more likely to be in the 500F range . In order to get to the higher end of charcoal 's abilities there are a couple things you can do : Use natural <URL> , not briquettes . Lower the grill grate to within 1 " of the hot coals If 1 &amp; 2 do n't get you enough heat , consider using the Alton Brown <URL> ( Setup starts around the 8 minute mark )
Yes . In fact , many , many people believe ( falsely ) that adding salt before or during cooking will keep beans hard ( a myth addressed in your first link ) , and most of these people have been cooking perfectly good beans for many years without adding salt until the beans were fully cooked . The cooking time may vary slightly . In some circumstances , the texture of the beans and/or their skins may soften at somewhat different rates than with salt . But the beans will still cook fine . ( One note : some chefs have claimed that cooking beans without salt causes people to add even more salt afterward to create a flavor that tastes " properly salted . " Beans are generally enhanced by adding flavoring components early enough in cooking for the flavors to penetrate . But you can always add salt afterward too ; the resulting flavor distribution will just be different . )
I mostly agree with GdD 's answer , but I 'll add a couple more comments . This may be an obvious answer , but I 'd generally follow the recommendation on the specific bottle . Some sauces will clearly state " refrigerate after opening , " and others wo n't . The Frank 's FAQ <URL> is an example of these sorts of instructions : two specific products recommend refrigeration , but in other cases for Frank 's hot sauces it is n't required ( " but doing so will keep the product fresher for a longer period of time " ) . I 've also seen an occasional product that said refrigeration " recommended " or something on the package . I 'd generally assume that if a manufacturer bothers to say something about refrigeration , it 's a good idea to do it . Sometimes it may be for food safety , but in other cases it may just be a product with ingredients that will lose flavor or degrade rapidly at room temperature . Most hot sauces wo n't degrade noticeably at room temperature even over a period of several months , and many will be stable for a couple years . Others will change flavors slowly over time at room temperature , but not necessarily in a negative way . ( Some sauces are deliberately " aged " or fermented at room temperature for periods from a week to several years , and sometimes these processes will continue to change the product even after it is bottled . Some sauces will undergo natural browning reactions at room temperature as well , which can alter flavor . I know some people who actually prefer hot sauce this way , though I 'm personally skeptical . ) If there 's a " best before " date on your sauce and no instruction to refrigerate , you can probably assume the sauce is supposed to maintain quality at least that long without refrigeration . However , that does n't guarantee that it will stay exactly the same over that period . As GdD said , refrigeration will almost always keep the sauce more stable .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
I do n't think it 's your fault . Mates do n't break that often . Besides , I 've seen a lot of people drink it hotter than me without any problems . As for preparation , it was recommended to me the following : Place the leaves in the mate Add a little bit of cold water Add hot water When and how you put the straw is a whole other chapter !
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
The difference between a santuko and European chef 's knife is mostly a matter of personal taste and style . However , if you live in North America , Europe , or anywhere else with a European cooking tradition , most of the resources and videos that you see to help you develop knife skills will assume you have a chef 's knife . For this reason , I suggest you start with a good basic chef 's knife . Secondly , you will want a paring knife . With these two knives , you can do 95 % of kitchen tasks very well . As you develop your skills , you can try santukos and other style blades and determine if the work for you .
Do you like your noodles swimming in water ? If not , drain them .
Wetted starch is not the same thing as cooked starch . If you want to see the difference in a simple experiment , make two starch slurries , boil one into a pudding , and leave the other one cold . Starch only gelates at high temperatures ( I think it starts around 70 ° C , but needs even more to complete the process ) . When you have a grain of rice , you have the problem that the starch is very closely packed together , and water ca n't penetrate into the center of the grain too well - the outside layers soak all the water they come in contact with , and so water only seeps into the center of the rice after the outer part has been hydrated . It is similar for pasta . In the worst case , when you cook rice , the time needed for cooking will be enough to heat the whole grain to the gelating temperature , but not enough for the water to hydrate the innermost part of the corn . This is fine if you want hardish-cooked rice , but if you want soft , mushy rice , you should presoak it so the inside is already hydrated when you start cooking it . I suppose you can do the same with pasta . This is the reason why some sources will advice you to presoak . But , as I said , this is not the same as cooking . Yes , the rice or pasta will get soft , so you wo n't break your teeth if you try to eat it . But it will still be raw starch . I do n't know if it is unhealthy to eat raw starch ( my mother certainly told me so , but it could have been a myth ; I asked <URL> and got no conclusive answers ) . But it will probably taste unpleasant , similar to raw potatoes or raw flour . I would try to get other sources of food for this time period . Or , as @justkt 's comment suggests , it is easy to get an electric kettle in a brand new house before the kitchen is installed . You can use it to pour cooking water over " instant " versions of pasta and rice . These have been pregelated and then dehydrated , so do n't need a prologned cooking . They are usually available as instant hot soup or rice meals in sachets and cardboard boxes , I have n't seen them as pure ingredients .
Marshmallows will dissolve ( " melt " ) in your hot cocoa for the same reason that they " melt " in your mouth : both provide heat and moisture . If you could somehow treat the marshmallows so that they did n't dissolve in the cocoa you would n't get the desired effect in your mouth either . It comes down to a matter of timing : how can you keep the marshmallows intact until you drink the cocoa ? I can think of three options : Drink the cocoa more quickly . Use larger marshmallows . Add more marshmallows as necessary . It 's not clear from your question exactly what kind of marshmallows you 're referring to . I suspect that you 're talking about the crunchily dehydrated " micro-mini " marshmallows that come in a packet of hot cocoa mix . Call me a snob , but those things hardly qualify as a " marshmallow " at all ; you should perhaps be happy that they dissolve , or else sift them out of the mix and throw them away ! If you like them , though , you 'll be happy to know that you can buy more : Amazon carries 12 oz . bags of dehydrated micro-mini marshmallows , and adding a spoonful to your cup when you 're ready to drink should solve the problem . If you feel like an upgrading your brew , pick up a bag of mini marshmallows and add a handful of those . Minis should be large enough to last for quite a while , and since they 're not dehydrated they 'll be somewhat sturdier in the cup . Marshmallows come in a number of sizes ... if the minis do n't last long enough for you , go with a few standard sized ( approximately 1 inch ) marshmallows . I 've seen jumbo marshmallows in the store lately , but you 'll probably need a larger cup if you want to have any room left for the cocoa . Try one of <URL> .
Poke them with a fork in a few places . This will let the steam out in a controlled manner and prevent bursting . or , even better , skip the microwave and boil them in a pan over the stove .
Wilting in greens is triggered by temperature , pH , and salt content . To reduce wilting , you can cool the vegetables or shrimp , make the vegetables more acidic * , or decrease their salt content . My suggestion would be to cool the shrimp with an ice water bath or cold running water . This is the most traditional approach for shrimp salad . Alternately , you could apply an acidic dressing before topping , but wait to salt it until the shrimp have cooled to 140F . Alternately , wilting of vegetables adds a rather interesting variation in flavor or texture to a salad . This technique has been desirable and in vogue at various times . Why does this all happen ? Plant cells wilt when cooking breaks apart the cellulose-based cell walls , and allows water to escape , causing them to soften . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pp 282 ) : When the tissue reaches 140F/60C , the cell membranes are damaged , the cells lose water and deflate , and the tissue as a whole goes from firm and crisp to limp and flabby . Acids will impede wilting , because the cell walls are held together with hemicellulose , and it is " not very soluble in an acid environment " ( pp 282 ) . Table salt is a problem , because " its sodium ions displace the calcium ions that cross-link and anchor the cement molecules in the fruits and vegetable walls , thus breaking the cross-links and helping dissolve the hemicelluloses " ( pp 283 ) . Calcium has the opposite affect , so if you can use hard water or add calcium salts , do so . * Acidic solutions will reduce green colors ( On Food and Cooking , pp 280-281 ) , but preserve texture ( 282 ) .
I 'm going to propose a different cooking method that 's closer to cooking it on the stovetop ; gnocchi when cooked wrong can be quite dense . It 's still edible , but it 's not as enjoyable . take your cooking vessel , and heat up your cooking liquid ( I 'd go with just water , as we do n't know how much liquid it 's going to absorb , and we do n't want too runny of a sauce ) Float a toothpick in it , or something else microwave safe . ( note : this is for safety ... we need nucleation points so you do n't get scalded in step # 5 ) Microwave on high 'til boiling ** Remove the toothpick Add the gnocci Microwave on high 'til boiling again Microwave on low until floating . Drain Add sauce Microwave to warm the sauce . ** as you said you had a combination water cooler/heater , you can start with hot water , and skip steps 2 through 4 .
end question
start question
Could a cast iron skillet change its ways and be kosher for a vegan ?
There are a few aspects to consider , but will always boil down to " you have to ask the individual " . Making a piece of cookware " safe " for a given person involves two components : Removing the contaminant in question in a manner that will prevent accidental ingestion of said contaminant . Making the item seem un-contaminated . At first glance this is similar to the first part , but has less to do with the physical molecules , and more to do with people 's perception of cleanliness , as seen through their cultural lens . If a toothbrush falls on the bathroom floor , many people will throw it away because of the persistant sensation of uncleanliness , even if a dishwasher cycle would be more than enough to satisfy point 1 . " Is it clean ? " is as much about physics as it is about perception and intent . For vegans and vegetarians , there are no guidelines of any kind . Individuals who are vegan or vegetarian for primarily environmental or health reasons will probably be satisfied with any simple cleaning to meet condition 1 , and are probably unconcerned with item 2 , as it applies to meat . Vegans and vegetarians who are primarily motivated by ethics will be more impacted by item 2 , and may prefer not to eat off the pan . While some may be satisfied by various " rituals " , there is no standard for such rituals . For people who keep Kosher , some sects of Judaism allow for " kashering " , which is the process of making something previously un-Kosher into something Kosher . Kashering is partially about item 1 , but is primarily about item 2 - in some cases the cleaning is highly ritualized . Note that while there are some common themes to kashering , different sects will see the acts very differently , and may or may not " allow " certain methods for their followers . For some appliances the process is fairly easy - a stainless steel sink can be Kashered with boiling water . Porcelain is seen as porous , and in many cases can not be kashered ( exceptions can be made for valuable old items , but they must remain unused for over a year ) . Ovens and oven-safe cooking items can be put through a self-cleaning cycle ( around 800F ) , and must be thoroughly cleaned of all debris . Cast iron pans and other fry pans must have their entire seasoned coating removed , abrasively and/or through extremely high heat . The bare pan may then be re-seasoned in a proper way . Many consider that to be too extreme to be worth the time , and simple replacement of the cast iron cookware is advised . Some examples of Kashering processes , though various sub-communities will see these items differently : <URL> <URL> Ultimately , everyone will fall into a different place on the Item 1/Item 2 scale , and their habits or religion alone may not allow you to easily predict their reaction . In some cases , Jews determine that being an ungrateful guest is a greater sin than eating from a non-Kosher pan . Some vegans may find the pan forever unclean , but many will also take a more practical attitude when eating with friends than they would with their own cookware . The best you can do is to take a good guess at whether someone is an Item 1 or and Item 2 prioritizer , and act accordingly . People who highly prioritize Item 2 will probably never be OK with your cast iron pan . People who prioritize Item 1 will probably be satisfied with any solid cleaning such as a heavy salt scrub with very hot water , and a re-oiled surface with an acceptable variety of oil . In a world where wider groups of cultures are finding themselves in the same place , and individuals are thinking more about their own diets and making a broader range of food choices , it is becoming more acceptable to just ask . You should be able to ask someone , " Would you mind if this pan had been used to prepare meat in the past ? " and not have them be offended , or yourself be offended at their answer ( if they say " yes , I do mind " ) . I have so many friends with different dietary choices and traditions that I 'm used to asking in dinner invites , " What is everyone 's dietary situation right now ? " No one is offended by the question , and their honest answers make it easy ( and fun ) to put together a meal that everyone will enjoy .
<URL> . The beans themselves have a much subtler flavor , a bit closer to tea really . Try tasting a light roast coffee compared to a medium roast or dark roast at your local coffee house . The differences are readily apparent . The coffee you describe was most likely a dark roast which generally has a quite smoky and even burnt character .
It 's not drastically important in making it workable , it 's more important in the texture of the finished result . When you roll out pastry dough , you are created interleaving layers of fat and the flour/water mix . When you cook it , the fat melts , leaving pockets in the dough , causing it to form flaky layers . This results in a crisp , light pastry . For this to happen , the fat must remain as solid as possible until cooking . If the fat melts and blends with the flour and water before cooking , you will have a dense , cardboard-like pastry . Also , warm pastry dough tends to become sticky and hard to work with .
Tl ; dr You can use your cast iron for anything if it is seasoned and cleaned well . I do n't have a ribbed pan and it seems that would be harder to clean so I will speak only to the smooth . My cast iron pan is reasonably well seasoned . It could be better but I only get a little sticking . Scraping it well and scrubbing with kosher salt and a paper towel cleans it spotless from almost anything . Occasionally I have to rinse it out which does n't damage the seasoning at all . When it is cleaned there are no lingering flavors from previous dishes . I often cook meat , onions , desserts , and cornbread with no problems . Cornbread has a delightfully different and deliciously rustic texture when cooked in hot cast iron .
Personally when ever I do Swiss rolls or anything requiring me to roll or manipulate the sponge in any way I 'll use a Genoise sponge recipe . It 's a bit more effort to make than a bog standard pound cake recipe but worth it . While still warm I 've managed to roll it anywhere between 2mm thick and 3cm with little or no cracks or splits . In my opinion the optimum thickness for a full sized Swiss roll is around 1cm thick , but obviously if making canape sized versions you 'll be looking more towards the 2mm thickness .
I 've received some portions from friends and family , which have always worked well . :-) When I 'm creating it from scratch , I mix 200g of rye flour , a little bit of yeast ( which you can leave out ) , 1 tsp of salt , 1 tsp of honey , 1 dl of organic yogurt and 2 dl of water . I leave this mixture out on the kitchen table ( at around 20C ) for a day with a piece of wet cloth on top . After that I add 2 dl of rye flour and enough water to make the dough soft . This sits on the kitchen table for yet another day , after which is should look like a pool of lava and smell a bit acidic . The honey and the yogurt is the magic touch that makes this starter work , according to my books and research . I 've never done anything special to control the temperature or anything else .
Seems almost every question about bacteria seems to bring about both the bacteriophobes and the cavalier . In this case , the cavalier are probably closer to being right , but I 'll try to present the facts so that you can decide for yourself . The most common microbe groups responsible for household food poisoning are : Salmonella , found in poultry , <URL> the <URL> . CDT can be denatured ( technically , " heat-labile " ) but is one of the most resistant toxins , taking <URL> to destroy . This type of bacteria is n't normally associated with eggs , but since chicken eggs and other poultry products may be handled in the same area , it 's not unthinkable that the shells could become contaminated - and depending on how you handle the eggs , so could the frying pan . E.Coli is normally associated with beef but is also <URL> . It 's improbable , but not impossible for it to be <URL> as well . This is a bit of a weird one because <URL> , but not in the yolk itself or the frying pan . The strains of e.coli associated with food poisoning encode <URL> ( SLT ) and also <URL> , the latter of which are often heat stable . I 'm not sure about SLT , but the STs can <URL> . <URL> ( causing Campylobacteriosis ) produces certain enterotoxins and <URL> . As above , these tend to be heat-resistant . <URL> is responsible for for botulism and is ubiquitous . The spores are incredibly difficult to kill but they are also only harmful to infants and the immunodepressed . More importantly , the bacteria are killed by heating to 85 ° C for 5 minutes and are also anaerobic - meaning they can only grow when they are not exposed to air . In other words , these may be present , but wo n't grow and produce toxins on a reasonably clean pan . <URL> is one of the most common sources of food poisoning , and I believe is actually what drives a lot of the specific food safety/food inspection rules . The spores are very heat resistant ( can survive boiling for a full hour ) , and even though it is anaerobic , <URL> . It can grow on a pan - just more slowly than it would grow in an enclosed container or in raw/fresh food . <URL> causes staph infections but also produces heat-resistant enterotoxins . It does n't generally come from food , but more than 20 % of humans are carriers , and also many pets ( cats and dogs ) , so it is very likely in your household somewhere and can easily get on your frying pan and multiply on leftover food bits . <URL> is less common but very resilient ( they 're known for " fried rice syndrome " because they can survive steaming ) and afterward produce spores and heat-resistant enterotoxins . Important to note that many strains of this are harmless - but not all . <URL> causes ( as you may have guessed ) cholera symptoms which come from CTX and TCP toxins . Both of these are heat-labile although I was n't able to find a time/temperature data point . Chances are , you have at least one these friends in your kitchen . Chances are , you have several . The question is , did enough of them manage to get onto your frying pan after your last meal to produce dangerous levels of toxins ? Probably not . It 's really very unlikely . But it is possible , and you 're taking a chance if you do n't wash your dishes . In fact , it 's probably more dangerous with eggs , because typically you 'd cook eggs only up to a temperature of around 70 ° C , at most ( 63 ° is the temperature at which they set ) . So day after day you 're bringing all those lovely bacteria right into the <URL> for several minutes and not staying above it for very long at all ! Doing this one time ... really not a big deal . Bacteria do n't get to multiply much in the 5 minutes ( or less ) it takes to fry an egg , and most eggs are n't even contaminated to begin with , although <URL> . But doing this several times , day after day - you 're increasing your risk each day because the pan may never get hot enough , long enough , to kill all of the new bacteria from the day before . I would strongly recommend that you wash your pans after use . You do n't need to use soap if they 're cast-iron ; a good scrub with salt and hot water is fine . But please - especially if you 're going to be cooking for guests - do n't just leave the dirty pans sitting there and use them again the next day without washing them first . It 's not safe . P.S. I 'd like to draw attention to the fact that of all of the items in the list above , botulism , despite having some of the worst symptoms , is generally the least of your worries . Both the bacteria and the toxin are easy to kill , and the spores are harmless to healthy adults . So if you hear people on this site or any site talk about food safety entirely in terms of botulism and the temperatures required to kill/inactivate the bacteria/toxin , ignore them , because they have n't done their homework .
Wetted starch is not the same thing as cooked starch . If you want to see the difference in a simple experiment , make two starch slurries , boil one into a pudding , and leave the other one cold . Starch only gelates at high temperatures ( I think it starts around 70 ° C , but needs even more to complete the process ) . When you have a grain of rice , you have the problem that the starch is very closely packed together , and water ca n't penetrate into the center of the grain too well - the outside layers soak all the water they come in contact with , and so water only seeps into the center of the rice after the outer part has been hydrated . It is similar for pasta . In the worst case , when you cook rice , the time needed for cooking will be enough to heat the whole grain to the gelating temperature , but not enough for the water to hydrate the innermost part of the corn . This is fine if you want hardish-cooked rice , but if you want soft , mushy rice , you should presoak it so the inside is already hydrated when you start cooking it . I suppose you can do the same with pasta . This is the reason why some sources will advice you to presoak . But , as I said , this is not the same as cooking . Yes , the rice or pasta will get soft , so you wo n't break your teeth if you try to eat it . But it will still be raw starch . I do n't know if it is unhealthy to eat raw starch ( my mother certainly told me so , but it could have been a myth ; I asked <URL> and got no conclusive answers ) . But it will probably taste unpleasant , similar to raw potatoes or raw flour . I would try to get other sources of food for this time period . Or , as @justkt 's comment suggests , it is easy to get an electric kettle in a brand new house before the kitchen is installed . You can use it to pour cooking water over " instant " versions of pasta and rice . These have been pregelated and then dehydrated , so do n't need a prologned cooking . They are usually available as instant hot soup or rice meals in sachets and cardboard boxes , I have n't seen them as pure ingredients .
They 're pre-seasoning with some sort of fat . It varies by manufacturer , though soy is probably fairly common ( its both cheap and has a <URL> ) . For example , <URL> .
It 's actually spelled ' roux ' , and is a mixture of oil and flour , cooked to remove the starchy taste of the flour . It 's a great thickener any time that you do n't need the sauce to be clear , and you have time to cook it down . I typically use it for cream sauce ( including cheese sauces , such as for mac &amp; cheese ) and gravies . As for benefits -- it 's habit at this point , so I 'm not really sure -- I guess it 's made from things I always have on hand . You can also get flavor from the roux , if you cook it longer , but you 'll adversely affect the thickening ability . Gumbo is normally made from a dark roux ( the Cajuns have a series of names for the color of roux , including ' brick ' , ' peanut-butter ' and ' chocolate ' )
You definitely want to keep beans whole as long as possible . Ideally , grind just the amount you need right before you brew the coffee . Keep the whole beans airtight , and freezing probably is n't necessary unless you buy a month of beans in advance .
Generally , I 've only heard of the plastic bag or the food processor . I have seen people who just bash the packet of biscuits on the kitchen top . Jamie Oliver likes to do that with slabs of chocolate ! Otherwise use a heavy duty snack-lock bag or else wrap the plastic bag in a tea towel . It helps to have a small hole for the air to escape .
you might try forcing whatever it is into the cherries . This can be done under pressure , which you might be <URL> using a <URL> or maybe <URL> , or simply by vacuum packing the cherries with the soaking liquid . once vacuum packed you might be able to put in a pressure cooker to increase the pressure , but I 'm not sure what the heat would do to the cherries . EDIT : having read the recipe , I 'm not sure any of this would work .
AFAIK you need to heat the pan to let the oil oxidize and polymerize ¹ so that it will form a chemically protective and non-sticking coating . If you wash your cookware with soap you will have to do it every time . For that reason some people do n't wash cast iron at all and wipe it with a clean cloth or paper towel after using . ( Burned oil is apparently not very tasty to bacteria and fungi so your pan stays relatively clean and bug-free . ) From my personal experience , meat sticks to untreated cast iron like glue , but on a well-maintained thick iron pan it glides like on Teflon . __ ¹ I do n't know if it makes any chemical sense because all references to polymerized fats I could google up were in relation to reoiling ( seasoning ) .
First , use oil . Many people use no oil at all on nonstick , but it wo n't work that way on a cast iron pan . Second , preheat it properly . With iron , it takes a long time . If you have a resistive electrical stove , it will be quite longer than you expected . Third , you might want to steer away from non-bound starches in the beginning , until the seasoning has set through use .
You 're going to die horribly from cooking in a rusted pan ! Just kidding ! A little iron in your food is n't going to hurt you , and can actually help prevent anemia . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pg 790 ) : " Excess iron is readily eliminated from the body , and most people can actually benefit from additional dietary iron . " Now , to back this up further : You wo n't get much iron out of the pan unless you cook something acidic in it . Rust is insoluble in water without acid present , and in order to become soluble you have to convert to iron nitrate , sulfate , or chloride , according to the <URL> Nothing you cook in there is likely to cause the necessary reactions to render it highly soluble . I found a <URL> quoting specific numbers for iron from cast iron cookware , if you are concerned . The gist is that most cooking in cast iron added from 1 to 5 mg of iron to the food , with the highest numbers coming from acidic foods with tomatoes . Applesauce was the highest , good for about 7 mg . This level of iron intake is quite safe and healthy . To give you a point of comparison , the <URL> iron intake of 8 mg/day for men , and 18 mg/day for women , and 80 % of the world may be iron deficient . Iron toxicity occurs at about 45 mg/day . So , as I initially stated , you 're perfectly safe cooking in your cast iron , and are probably helping your health rather than hurting it !
You can season the exterior of the kettle to help prevent rust , if you like . The interior of a cast iron tea kettle is often rust-proofed through chemicals that accrue during normal use . One of these is lime scale . Repeatedly boiling water , especially hard water , will build a coating of lime scale that will keep rust at bay . Another set of chemicals that help reduce the occurrence of rust are tannins . The tannic acid in tea leaves will react with red iron rust on the kettle to produce a more stable , blue-black compound called ferric tannate . To " season " a brand new tea kettle you can save used tea leaves and bags then place several in the pot and adding boiling water . Allow the " tea " to sit for 20 minutes then discard and rinse . As other answers state , a traditional fat-polymer seasoning of the interior is unnecessary because you do not need to prevent food from sticking to the kettle .
A vegan is not going to eat your pan , just the food that was made on it . As no animals were harmed in the making of your pan ( well , probably but how would you know ) the pan itself would n't be an issue . Of course if a tiny bit of pan seasoning could go into the food , however anything else used in the preparation of the meal like cutting boards could cause a small amount of meat product to go into the food as well . Your kitchen is not vegan , and if a vegan has a problem with that they should not come over for a meal . I 'd be extremely surprised if the subject of your pots and pans came up to be honest , vegans I know appreciate people going to the effort of making a vegan meal for them .
Why stove top and why oven ? The stove top provides high heat for searing , which generates browning ( the famous <URL> ) which creates delicious , savory flavor components . The oven provides an even , gentle heat for longer cooking without burning . The beauty of the braise Braising is a technique where a food , usually a meat , is cooked slowly in a moist environment , partially covered with water . It is an ideal technique for tougher , generally less expensive meats , because it converts collagen to gelatin , changing the meat from tough to meltingly tender and wonderful . Braising is more common than you might think . Chili con carne , and pot roast , osso bucco and coque au vin are all braised recipes . Searing and braising Many braising recipes start with a sear , which is most commonly done stove top , because of the high intense heat that is easy to generate . Alternate methods would be to use a broiler or an outdoor grill , but these are often not as convenient . The purpose is to generate the savory flavors ( not as the old kitchen myth said , " to seal in juices " ) . Then the dish is finished in its liquid ( which will later usually become the sauce ) at a much more gentle cooking pace . Braising is flexible You can braise in the oven . The advantage is the heat is very even and predictable , and you can just let the pot sit in the oven for 2 , 3 , or even 4 hours without worrying about burning or sticking . You can braise on the stove top , with a gentle flame ( or lower electric element setting ) . You simply adjust to leave the pot contents at a slow simmer ( bubbles form lazily , not continuously ) . There is slighty more risk of burning , and the occassional stir might not hurt , but especially with a good pan , no risk . So almost any braising recipe can be easily converted to be stovetop only , by simply ... erm ... using the stove top for the long braising time . I prefer the oven personally , but that is a matter of convenience and easy control . Quality cookware Quality cookware like good multi-ply stainless steel , or your now famous dutch oven ( from your previous questions ) is ideal for braising because it can be used for both the sear ( just like a cast iron pan ) and for the slow braising portion . No need to dirty two pots or pans . Recipes that are just stovetop There are a countless myriad recipes that you can cook in your cast iron just on the stove top . Anything : Fried Deep fried Boiled Braised The one thing you may choose to avoid doing is highly acidic recipes , like tomato sauce , which are not great for your seasoning . On the other hand , in rotation with other recipes that rebuild the seasoning , or just doing some direct seasoning , there is no true harm done either . Recipes that are just the oven There are many recipes that would only be done in the oven . Many braises skip the searing part . Even recipes that call for it can be done without , at some loss of flavor . Any recipe you see for a crockpot can be done in a dutch oven in the regular oven .
Thin cut meat will curl if there is an outside perimeter of gristle or silverskin ( which there usually is ) . Those things shrink faster than the meat , causing the curling . Take a pair of kitchen shears or a sharp knife and make tiny cuts ( it should n't take more than 1/4 inch ) every inch or so around the perimeter of the steak , just into the meat itself . That should solve the problem .
end question
start question
Should I default to higher or lower power when the recommended power is not an option in a microwave ?
Microwave ovens by their nature heat unevenly . The actual microwave radiation produces wave patterns with more and less amplitude within the cooking chamber . ( From a physics standpoint , these are " standing waves " produced by internal wave reflections . ) This is sort of the equivalent of " hot spots " and " cold spots " in a pan . Most modern microwaves contain some sort of rotating plate or other moving part to mitigate this unevenness by keeping the food in motion ( and thus aligning different parts of the food with the " hot spots " ) . Over time , some parts of the food will also become very hot , and the heat from those portions will gradually distribute to the cooler portions of the food around them . The reason I bring all of this up is that the primary advantage to cooking at a " lower power setting " in a microwave ( whether it truly can change wattage or whether it merely cycles between 100 % power and off , as dpolitt 's answer notes ) is to allow time for those hotter portions of food to distribute their heat to the cooler portions during cooking . If you 're heating something that has easy heat circulation ( e.g. , boiling water or other thin liquids ) , it does n't much matter what setting you use , so use higher power for time efficiency . But in many foods using a lower setting can : Allow time for the food to heat more gradually and more evenly Prevent parts of the food from getting overcooked ( which could lead to sections being dried out or otherwise changed to an overcooked texture ) For longer cooking times , it may also allow the " cold spots " more time to " catch up " and spend more time at a cooking temperature , which may be desirable for texture ( e.g. , if the food has to soften ) or other reasons Sometimes prevent undesirable " behavior " of food in the microwave when overheated : e.g. , exploding or " popping " of some parts of the food , boiling over of some liquids , etc. . In general , I 'd say that there 's rarely much harm in using a lower cooking setting in a microwave , other than potentially wasting some energy . As long as you lengthen the cooking time to compensate and cook the food completely , a longer time is fine . So , that 's what I 'd recommend if you 're at all concerned about the power setting . The only time to avoid a lower power setting is generally in foods where longer cooking times would also be avoided in other cooking methods . For example , when steaming vegetables , a longer cooking time will often result in mushiness , which may be undesirable -- whether done in a pot on the stove or in a microwave on low power . ( Some cooking requires a minimum temperature to achieve normal results too , like frying . In that case , you might need to use a higher power setting . I do n't tend to use my microwave for such things , so I do n't have a lot of recommendations for that . ) All of that said , the primary reason to use a microwave over other cooking methods is generally speed . That 's why most people tend to just use full power on microwaves for the vast majority of tasks anyway . If you 're heating a food where the things listed above are unlikely to pose a major problem , using higher power may be fine . Lastly , in many foods interrupting cooking by periodic stirring is actually more effective to distribute heat evenly than a longer microwave time at lower power . Thus , I mostly tend to use a lower power setting myself only in foods that ca n't be stirred or where I do n't want to be bothered to take the food out and stir periodically over a longer cooking time .
Removing things from the oven halfway through is not very friendly to baked goods . In general , they 'll collapse as they cool off since the structure is n't cooked and set , and the leavening ( baking soda/powder in these cases ) will be spent , so there 's no way to get what you originally wanted . It might be something like what 'd happen if you forgot the leavening in the first place . In general : if there 's only 5-15 minutes left , just leave it in , and the heat retained by the oven will take care of things . If it 's barely started - just beginning to get warm , not bubbling/rising much - probably best to take it out and wait to bake later , especially if it 's something that can survive waiting at room temperature . Anything else , leave it in and hope the power comes back ; it 's going to be ruined if you take it out and ruined if the power does n't come back on so you might as well go for it . So for example , cookies could probably survive this by leaving them in . They do n't have very long baking times - somewhere in the 5-15 minute range . Your oven wo n't cool off all that much in that time without power . So if you leave them in for a little bit longer than the original baking time , they 'll probably be fine . If your oven has a window , look in with a flashlight to check on them - you do n't want to open it to check them . A cake is iffier . If it 's 15 minutes into a 45 minute baking time , you may just be out of luck . I think I 'd still leave it in , hoping that the power comes back within 5-10 minutes , in which case it 'd probably make it . As I mentioned earlier , if you lose power early and for long enough , the cake will have spent its leavening and collapsed . You could finish baking it , but it 'll still be collapsed - it probably wo n't have a terribly palatable texture ( definitely dense , maybe chewy ) . The only time this has actually happened to me was with some cornbread muffins , around 2/3 of the way through their baking time , and the oven did n't have a window . I wildly guessed how much extra time to add , pulled them out then , and they were great . So there is hope !
I know it 's a old post . . But I just made toast in my microwave/convection combo and its ' good . . I defrosted my bread in the microwave , the put it on a the metal rack for 10 minutes at 425 . It worked !!! I know it 's 10 minutes but it allowed me to cook the eggs etc. . .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
Frying the chicken tends to set the muscle fibers by drawing moisture out . An example of this would be taking a thin ( 1cm ) cutlet and frying it until both sides start to turn golden . It will be pretty dry and hard . Pressure cooking it on the other hand tends to soften the muscle fibers without drawing moisture in ( if anything , its putting moisture in ) . So , ideally , you should boil/pressure cook your chicken prior to frying in oil ( though do make sure to drain the chicken first to prevent splatters ! ) . Additionally , you should undercook the chicken slightly in the pressure cooker since you 'll be finishing it in the fryer . If you are broasting the chicken , then you are going about the recipe incorrectly by frying then pressure cooking it . When broasting , you should pressure fry - if that makes sense .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
I have looked extensively and it seems that whether to boil or steam is determined by region and it is as subjective as the fillings used . See below from this <URL> . Other variations include using black instead of white glutinous rice , or precooking the rice and filling , or steaming instead of boiling , or even wrapping into a cylindrical shape or a flat paddle shape instead of a pyramidal one . You may be able to make a decision based on certain factors of your recipe . For example : Some recipes call for the rice to be soaked while others call for it to be cooked . If I was using soaked rice I would probably choose boiling as the zongzi may become too dry with steaming . Same idea for other ingredients . Another consideration would be how well the zongzi are wrapped . If they are wrapped very skillfully , either way could work . However , if not , the filling could come out much easier with boiling . So , in the end , I would say that there really is n't a really definitive answer . I think I would use the method called for in the recipe as there may be specific reasons the prescribed cooking method was chosen .
It 's definitely just a matter of preference . I 'd expect the vegetables from the stock to be overcooked for my tastes , I like a little texture in my soup .
You can put a cup/bowl of water ( you can also add some vinegar if you do n't mind the smell ) in there , heat it up to boiling , let the steam out . Then you should let it sit in the microwave without opening the door . Wait for a few minutes , open the microwave , and wipe off the inside . All that steam should have soften any stains or food pieces left in there . You may spray some natural cleaners or lemon/vinegar mixtures to wipe off the inside more .
A glass of water in the microwave will result in less microwave energy reaching the popcorn . I use a large glass of water ( 8 - 12 oz . ) when I 'm softening butter because I want the water to absorb most of the energy . For popcorn , you may get by with 2-4 ounces of water . I 've also found that the amount of oil makes a huge difference . I sometimes pop popcorn in a paper lunch bag . If I do n't use any oil , I get the combination of burnt and unpopped you described . With a teaspoon of oil added to 1/3 cup of popcorn , results are a lot better . Perhaps you just need a little more oil to get great popcorn .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Because as you are cooking your soup , water in your soup is evaporating away as steam . You might salt a soup perfectly halfway through , but after evaporation , your now thicker soup is too salty . When adding salt , wait until the end of the cooking process , as soups will reduce and concentrate the flavors as the liquid evaporates . [ Source : <URL> ]
It 's a different flavor . Romano is sharper , more grassy ; parmesan is nuttier and sweeter . I actually prefer romano where I have a lot of other strong flavors . If there 's other sharp flavors in a dish , such as olives , chili pepper , or capers ( e.g. , puttanesca ) , I 'll go with romano which seems to stand up better to the robust flavors . For something with a more subtle flavor such as a ragu bolognese , butter or cream-based sauces , risotto , etc. . I feel that a good parmeggiano reggiano can stand up to the other flavors in the dish without overwhelming them . If cost is your main concern , I 've had some parms from Argentina that are actually pretty good . Reggiano is definitely better , but depending on what you 're using it for , it might be an option . I would n't use it in something like a risotto or fettuchine alfredo where it plays a key role in the dish , but if you 're just grating it on top it will work fine . An in-between option is Grana Padano , which is advertised as a " budget " substitute for reggiano . In my experience , it 's pretty good , but where I live it 's only a little cheaper .
Preheating the tea pot with hot water will also prevent the tea pot from cracking when you do add boiling hot water for the tea to steep in . I will say that I have a fairly thick-walled tea pot , I rarely preheat it , and I 've never seen any danger of cracking . However , if I had a nice china pot , I would preheat it . Better safe than sorry !
<URL> 160 ° F ( 71 ° C ) for dishes containing eggs . If you 're scrambling eggs or making an omelette , as long as they 're coagulated/solidified , they 'll be safe . The easiest way to confirm this is with sous vide eggs . For example , this <URL> has 155 ° F , 160 ° F , and 165 ° F eggs : <URL> <URL> <URL> which clearly show that the white wo n't be totally solidified until 160 ° F or even 165 ° F , even when cooked for an extended period of time . ( To be clear , those lower-temperature eggs are actually safe if cooked for sufficient time . The point here is just to show coagulation versus temperature , to demonstrate that when eggs cooking in a pan , you can use the solidity as a temperature indicator . )
From Greenfootsteps ' " <URL> " : Pick elderberries when they are fully ripe in early autumn . The bunches should be starting to droop downwards with the weight of the fruit . Use a fork or your fingers to gently prise the fruit away from the stalks . This can be a bit fiddly but you do n't have to be too perfect with it - a few bits of stalk will not matter .
I 'd go for a more powerful one , in general , and I noticed that the higher powered disposals are sometimes quieter , which I really like . I really learned that paying the extra for good plumbing parts ( faucet , disposal ) through our plumber was worth it , since they can be fixed , unlike cheaper big box store stuff , and that there was a real difference in the higher quality disposal .
Depends on the apple . Apples with softer skins will bake to a more even consistency , but apples with tough skin ( the ' shiny ' kinds like McIntosh or Red Delicious ) tend to get caught in your teeth and throat , and are generally a pain to eat . If you do make a pie with the skins on , use smaller pieces of apple or slice around the apples to create shorter pieces of peel . These are easier to eat and do n't get caught in your mouth as much .
Reducing a mixture is simply boiling out water present in the solution . Adding a starch ( either cornstarch or other flours ) does n't remove that water but instead causes the starch to expand and " trap " some of the water . Cornstarch in particular <URL> when there is n't enough moisture in the base mixture , or if there 's too much fat or sugar present , so it 's not suitable for really rich sauces , for example <URL> . It also does n't work well in acidic mixtures like tomato sauce . The worst thing you can do for a cornstarch-thickened mixture is to cook it at a high temperature ( i.e. more than a moderate simmer ) or for an extended period of time . These will expand the starch granules so much that they pop , breaking the cornstarch and causing the sauce to thin again . So , be very careful of cooking temperature when using a cornstarch slurry . I have also found that cornstarch does n't respond very well to cooling and re-heating , so it 's not the best solution if you plan on saving some of the sauce for later use .
I 'm going to step out on a limb here and declare that you 'll need to add more of the other ingredients . Even then , you 're likely to throw off the overall balance of flavors because they have not all cooked together . Here 's a <URL> that suggests there are about 6 compounds that primarily contribute to the flavor and aroma of celery . However , as a home cook , I have no idea what any of these are or how to suppress them specifically . It may be possible to do so , but that solution is likely to be impractical for the home chef . Another problem is that celery has a very flavor-enhancing effect ; this is why it shows up so often in traditional vegetable bases like <URL> and <URL> . Here 's another <URL> summarizing a paper that identified the specific compounds responsible for this ; the odd thing is that these " phthalides " are largely tasteless . In short : the balance and overall tastiness of your soup might have been reached specifically by adding so much celery . I think you 're going to have to chalk this one up as a learning experience and adjust your recipe next time . One thing you could try ( if you 're not already , which would surprise me a little ) is <URL> the celery . I find that this makes the flavor overall a bit milder , with less of the vegetal-bitter flavors while still getting the umami-enhancing effect .
end question
start question
Can microwave safe glass vessels be used in an electric oven ?
Sometimes . Basically , this is the same as asking if glass is oven safe : Generally , glass is oven-safe if taken from room temperature and put in a moderate-temperature , preheated oven . The key thing is to avoid temperature shocks ( which will cause the glass to shatter ) . Some glass is specifically designed for oven use ( either by being tempered or made of borosilicate glass ) . Often glassware will say if it is safe for oven use or not , and under what conditions -- check the packaging or instructions it came with . You also need to take precautions when removing glass from the oven . Do not set it on something that 'll conduct heat away rapidly , such as a wet countertop . Before heating glassware , inspect it for damage . Scratches , chips , etc. make failure much more likely . This applies to the microwave as well . Note that non-glass parts of microwave-safe glassware may not be oven safe . For example , if it has a plastic lid , that should generally not be used in the oven ( even though its OK in the microwave ) . edit : In response to your update , that oven is what would often be called a toaster or countertop oven . Those change temperature much more rapidly than a larger oven ( which can be electric as well ) . So , generally , you 'd avoid glass in them . But , your glass says it can be used over a flame , from the freezer . So it 's clearly one of the very shock-resistant ones , possibly borosilicate . I would n't expect it to be a problem . Just make sure to preheat the oven . Also , since you know who made it , you can of course contact the manufacturer to confirm .
I 'm going to propose a different cooking method that 's closer to cooking it on the stovetop ; gnocchi when cooked wrong can be quite dense . It 's still edible , but it 's not as enjoyable . take your cooking vessel , and heat up your cooking liquid ( I 'd go with just water , as we do n't know how much liquid it 's going to absorb , and we do n't want too runny of a sauce ) Float a toothpick in it , or something else microwave safe . ( note : this is for safety ... we need nucleation points so you do n't get scalded in step # 5 ) Microwave on high 'til boiling ** Remove the toothpick Add the gnocci Microwave on high 'til boiling again Microwave on low until floating . Drain Add sauce Microwave to warm the sauce . ** as you said you had a combination water cooler/heater , you can start with hot water , and skip steps 2 through 4 .
The only one that could feasibly handle it would be the grinder . However , in the manual <URL> on page 5 it states " Note : Very hard , dense foods such as totally dried homemade bread should not be ground in the Food Grinder . Homemade bread should be ground fresh and then oven or air-dried . " If dried , dense bread is too much for the grinder then peanuts would definitely be to much as well . My recommendation is to use a food processor .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
I know it 's a old post . . But I just made toast in my microwave/convection combo and its ' good . . I defrosted my bread in the microwave , the put it on a the metal rack for 10 minutes at 425 . It worked !!! I know it 's 10 minutes but it allowed me to cook the eggs etc. . .
The Maggi noodles you link to are just average ramen noodles , so can be cooked in the microwave quite easily . Boil a kettle of water Place the noodles in a microwavable bowl . You may need to break the noodles into pieces , but if you 're careful with the boiling water you can sometimes soften the noodles in the middle enough to fold the block to make it all fit without breaking Pour the flavour sachet ( and any other curry powder/herbs ) onto the dry noodles Pour the boiling water onto the noodles , enough to cover the noodles , and if desired , a bit more for a bit of a soup Put into the microwave , you can cover with a loose lid if desired , and microwave for around 2 minutes Stir the noodles , separating any stuck-together blocks of noodles Put back into the microwave for another 2-3 minutes ( depending on your microwave 's power ) I usually cook these kind in the microwave , since if I 'm eating them I 'm not usually in the mood for a proper cooking session . They do ( depending on the kind of noodle ) sometimes turn out slightly different when done in the microwave , as compared to boiling on hob , but both are nice as a snack .
@Chris : Does the recipe from the Nero Wolfe cookbook say anything about dumping the milky/watery portion out of the pan before returning the butter to it to brown ? Clarified butter WILL NOT brown , that is the purpose for clarifying it . The milk solids are what brown . The portion that usually goes to the bottom will be the whey and the milk solids initially tend to form the " scum " on the top . To me it sounds like he 's trying to suggest that you should pour the butter &amp; solids off , dump out any whey , and then return the butter to the pan so you can heat it to the point of a dark brown without it splattering ( which is caused by the water in the whey ) . 4 tablespoons of butter is n't going to have much whey in the first place so just cook the whole butter to the beurre noir point .
Is it safe ? That depends on a lot of factors . Generally , no . It is n't . A blog post from the Healthy Home Economist has the opinion of a firefighter : One gal mentioned that her husband was a firefighter and that leaving a stockpot simmering overnight or while they were out of the house was completely out of the question . <URL> <URL> Since you can not get a crock pot my only other suggestion is to simmer your bone broth in the oven . If your pot is oven safe and you trust your oven 's ability to keep a steady low temperature , then try it in there . If you plan on making bone broth more often , a crock pot is a great investment and if you check out your local Goodwill or Salvation Army store you might find an older but still perfectly usable model for an excellent price . It would also allow you to slow cook your broth overnight safely ( and uses less electricity to do it ) .
Some muffins with very thick batter can be held for up to several days before being baked , but these are the exception , rather than the rule . However , quick breads , whether sliced loaves , whole loaves , or muffins , freeze extremely well . Muffins are especially easy to reheat in the microwave or a toaster oven , and can be an ideal way to have quick breads prepared in advance . Another way ( which offers fresh , hotly baked breads ) that I like I do before busy holidays that will have muffins or cornbread on the menu , is to prepare the dry mix , and the wet mix , and stick them ( separately ) into the refrigerator . Then , it is only a matter of combining them , putting them in the pan , and baking .
Impossible is a strong word , but yes its near enough impossible as there is insufficient surface area touching to transfer the heat through , and hot plates do not have good heat . . not sure of the word , but they do n't transfer heat well to things which are not touching them . You can get flat bottomed woks which are more suited to this set up , but even then if you are moving the wok about a lot you still end up with the contact being lost quite a bit , and so not as much heat being transferred as you might want . I 've always found woks to work best on gas . In fact gas is just best , full stop .
Silly , silly me . As Jefromi suggested earlier , the largest contributor to the fact it takes that much longer is probably the fact that the eggs are at a different themselves at the moment I put them in . I used to store eggs in a cupboard ; now I store them in the refrigerator . That is not to say the other factors mentioned by Martha and Sklivvz do n't add to that -- they most likely do -- but this seems the most reasonable , if unanticipated , explanation . Thank you all for your answers and suggestions !
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
I have only seen it used in dahl dishes , presumably because of it 's claimed digestive properties . Asafoetida is incredibly pungent ; anything more than a pinch seems too much and unpleasant . I think of it as a flavour-enhancer , a natural , Indian MSG rather than a spice in the normal sense . It makes your mouth water quite intensely and seems to stimulate the savory tatse buds ( umami ) . This is lovely when done subtley and kept in the background . Therefore , I suspect you could add small pinches to all kinds of savoury food .
Technically you should be able to make almost anything you 'd be able to make in a metal dish , in a glass dish , but if the preparation calls for one then you ca n't simply substitute the other willy-nilly . It will likely require a good deal of fine-tuning . Glass is an insulator . It absorbs heat . That 's why solar panels are glass and why having a window in your home is not like having a gaping hole in your wall . As a consequence of this , ( a ) it will take a longer time for the dish itself to come up to oven temperature , ( b ) it will cook much more consistently and evenly , even if you have an oven that turns the element on and off to maintain temperature , and ( c ) it will continue cooking the food after you remove it from the oven , unless you remove the food from the baking dish immediately . What this means is that you generally have to extend the cooking time by at least 5-10 minutes ( more if you are baking at high temperatures ) when substituting glass bakeware for metal , to let the dish " pre-heat . " Except if you 're going to let the food cool inside the baking pan , in which case you might actually need to decrease the overall time to prevent burning afterward . It 's hard to be precise because it depends on what you 're cooking , how long you 're cooking it and at what temperature . To be honest , I probably would not use a glass dish for any recipe requiring caramelizing because caramelizing relies entirely on finely-controlled conduction ; ovens are less sensitive than a stove top but nevertheless , a few minutes too long and it 's burnt , a few minutes too short and it 's still solid . Better to choose a material that 's highly conductive for that , i.e. metal . Glass is best when you need slower , more even cooking , like casseroles .
I have had great results by taking individual garlic cloves and cutting the root end off each , but leaving them in their papery skins . Then you put those dry into a small saucepan ( ideally one with a thick bottom ) over low-to-medium heat . Put a lid on it , and let it go for 20 minutes or so , shaking vigorously every couple of minutes to turn the cloves over . When the cloves are really soft , you 're done . The paper skins protect the garlic cloves from burning , but the direct contact with the hot pan cooks them nicely . When you 're done you can squeeze the soft , roasted garlic goodness out of the root end of the skins . This is a particularly nice technique when you want roasted garlic flavor but only need a few cloves , not a whole head . The first time I did a recipe that called for this process , I was sure the garlic would scorch or the skins would catch fire , but it worked great .
There are things you can do to tweak the colors , but generally it 's easy to move towards brown and dark , and hard to move towards a pure shade and light . You can use food coloring , spices with a lot of color ( like turmeric ) . You can lighten with cornstarch , flour , and dairy . ( thanks satanicpuppy ) If presentation is important to you , you can buy ingredients that make it easier to get the colors you want in the final product . For instance , next time you make the dish you could use <URL> and a little more sugar .
In the <URL> , Madhur says one of the few uses she 's found for a plain microwave oven is to roast cashews . She dresses them in a little bit of oil , then spreads them out on a plate in a single layer and cooks them in the microwave oven until they turn brown . I assume dressing them in a little bit of oil helps browning . I found <URL> for cashews and other nuts , but which implies the oil contained in the nuts themselves is enough to get them to brown . And finally , about.com has a page which is specifically about <URL> .
There are two problems here : Not enough heat reaching the wok/food due to limited contact surface . Part of the heating element not being in contact with a cooling metal ( pan/wok ) and the heat reflected back at it ( not escaping ) . This can result in a large temperature difference between the parts of the element that are in contact with the wok and parts that are not as well as over heating the element . You may still be able to use your wok on portable single burner gas stoves . Otherwise I 'd recommend heeding their advice and not using it on an electric stove . It wo n't make good food with little contact point anyway .
Maybe I 'm wrong , but there is no safety risk at all when boiling old water . There is however something like taste . The reason the old water is discarded is because , after boiling , it lacks oxygen and will taste stale . This is also the reason why coffee is made with 95ºC hot water , or why Moroccan tea is poured from above ( to oxygenate ) ... So , as long as you boil it before drinking it should be safe .
UHT ( Ultra High Temperature ) processing kills all the pathogens in the milk , so it can be conserved for a long time . However to make yogurt you add bacteria ( lactobacillus ) , so if there are n't other microorganism it should be even better .
end question
start question
How do I melt the chocolate in a s ' more ?
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
If it grows a grey or pink mold around the edges , or a black mold , throw it out . That 's an undesirable mold . Those molds are n't usually dangerous , but they can make the cheese taste bad . With gorgonzola cheese specifically , the mold is injected in to the cheese via needle-like things , and then it grows veins from there . If a mold is a different color and it 's coming from somewhere other than the veins , that is probably not a good mold . See also <URL> . .
I feed starter with a 50-50 mix of water and flour . Usually 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup flour for a small container . You can eyeball the ratio . It is n't critical to get it perfect . If you keep the starter in the fridge you can get away with feeding it twice a week depending on your yeast strain . You can do this by eye ... if the starter starts to look ugly when you take it out to feed , you should feed it a little more often . One thing I will say is that you can resurrect a starter that seems long past edible . The starter will get a cloudy fluid on top of the batter and develop a really strong smell if you let it go too long . My personal experience is that you can pour off the watery fluid and some of the batter if need be . Then add a good feeding of flour and water . It will take a little longer than usual to build up again . Yeast is a very durable critter .
I was lucky enough to get a macaron session from a Michelin-starred pastry chef before Christmas and he gave me some invaluable tips . Use an Italian meringue recipe . In other words , pour warm sugar syrup on to the egg whites instead of sugar from the cupboard . The eggs will already have been ' cooked ' into structure and will not require any crusting . They will retain the same shape that you pipe them out at . You can bake them straight away , or in a couple of hours - they wo n't be any different . When piping , use a moderate pressure . Do n't wring the bag out . Keep the nozzle approx 2cm over the tray and maintain that height while you pipe - let the weight of the batter spread the macaron out evenly . When there is enough mixture in place ( about 4cm across ? ) stop squeezing and flick the nozzle away in a controlled circular motion to avoid creating a ' nipple ' . I wrote about this including his recipe on <URL> . PS . I just remembered that adding further weight to the Italian meringue technique a very prominent French chef in the UK , Raymond Blanc , said that he always uses this method . On his TV programme this week he said it delivers far more consistent results .
Depends on what you 're juicing . If you 're juicing something like a lemon/lime for lemon/limeade , you can just strategically slice and squeeze to get all but a couple mLs of juice . If you 're juicing something like an apple , you can cook it slightly and then use your food processor to make apple sauce , which can these be squeezed through a cheesecloth/pillowcase for a great deal of juice . For everything else ( practically at least ) , a manual juicer ( like <URL> ) will do just fine and cost a maybe a few bucks .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
I do n't believe there is a fool-proof way to determine ' ripeness ' without taking a slice out of it . The best you can do is look for certain signs : Ripe melons have a hollow sound when you tap or slap the outside Look for the patch where the melon would have been on the ground ( called the field spot ) . If it 's a yellow colour its probably ripe , if it 's white , it 's probably not . It should feel relatively heavy when lifted Weird areas on the skin are n't necessarily bad . insects may have tried to start eating the fruit because it is ripe , but have only marred the surface . Unfortunately , melons do n't continue to ripen once picked , unlike fruits such as apples , bananas etc. which contain ethylene . As a tip do n't store melons with these kinds of fruit , they may well go ' soggy ' . Extra : <URL> .
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
Depending on where you live , there is a pretty simple approach you can try . In the next few days , head out to places that specialize in particular kinds of foods and in making them appeal to you . A farmer 's market , a butcher 's , a cheese shop , a bakery , etc. . Chat with the staff and buy whatever speaks to you in the store . When you come home , make whatever meals you feel inspired to make according to what you 've bought . Be creative and impulsive and seasonal . Keep doing that until one day you notice there is n't any food , and either go out and shop or eat something canned and go to shop the next day . In probably a week 's time , one of two things will happen . Either you will be feeling free , creative , inspired etc and so happy you are doing things this new way , or you will have thrown out a lot of expensive food that spoiled before you could use it , and be feeling very stressed and unhappy at 4 or 5 pm each day because you have to figure out what to make . If it 's the former , mission accomplished . If it 's the latter , you now have your motivation for the planning and the list making , and should find it more pleasant since you know its purpose and what it is saving you from . Either way , the " I hate having to plan my meals " feeling should diminish drastically .
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
If it has a shiny/reflective surface and does n't melt or bloom ( much ) at room temperature or hand temperature , then it 's already tempered . Virtually every packaged chocolate is already tempered . Untempered chocolate generally needs to be refrigerated for longer-term storage , so if a package does n't specify refrigeration ( and I 've never seen one that does ) , you can assume that it is tempered .
Biscuits are notorious for that ; they 're best eaten right away . If you want to preserve their original texture longer than 12 hours ( yes , that short of a time ) , your best bet is to freeze them as soon as they are cool and eat them within a month or two . Wrap them as air-tightly as possible . You can pop the frozen biscuits in a moderate oven or unwrap and give them an hour or so on the counter to defrost , then warm them . Either way , it 's best to serve them warm , they will seem softer and fresher that way . If you 've found a recipe you like and think you might want to make them frequently , mix the dry ingredients for multiple batches . If you can weigh the dry mix that you have just mixed , then you 're golden . You can make as many or as few biscuits as you want anytime just by using the same proportion of dry , fat and liquid as the original recipe . You can easily make a single biscuit that way or feed a crowd .
If you do n't fancy cooking in aluminium foil ( kind of takes the point away ) , you need to make sure you have a super clean , extremely hot grill . Why ? Clean ( No tasty burnt fat from the burgers ) , flesh sticks like #### to a blanket . You can get away with it when cooking steaks because they are just so much stronger . So get a wire brush and clean an area for fish cooking and keep it clean :) . Hot , as hot as you can pretty much . You want the second that Salmon ( or other fish ) hits the grill for it to blacken . It 'll help make sure the flesh is no longer ' fleshy ' and again less likely to stick . Do n't try lifting it till ' you know that underside is like a pink and black Zebra on it 's underside ( 3-4 min ) . When it does come to lifting you could really do with a nice sharp fish slice , not a blunt fat ended egg slice . Good luck .
If it 's for a pie , by melt the recipe author probably meant to dissolve in the least amount of water . You can do that by making a glucose syrup , as Pulse mentioned . Place one cup of dextrose with a third of a cup of water in a pot and heat until dissolved . Commercial glucose syrups are typically 10 to 25 % water . If you melt solid glucose in a pan , which happens at about 146 & deg ; C , it will burn .
There are four common ways to make fruit-flavored ganaches : Use the zest of the fruit Zest the fruit ( works best for cirtus ) and place the zest in the cream as it is brought to a simmer . Strain out the zest and use the cream . Use reduced juice Fruit juice from almost any fruit may be used as a liquid flavoring in ganache . The fruit juice should be heated until it is about half of its original weight . The reduced fruit juice can often be used as a 1:1 ( depending on the type of juice you might want to increase the juice slightly ) substitute in recipes that call for a liqueur . Like a liqueur , it is stirred in slowly ( a little bit at a time ) after the ganache has been mixed together . Use a fruit-flavored liqueur A third option is to find a liqueur with the correct flavor . It should be added slowly after the chocolate and cream have combined and formed a smooth ganache , but before the ganache has cooled . Use an extract or flavoring oil You can also use an extract or flavoring oil . Extracts should be treated like liqueurs . Flavoring oils ( such as <URL> ) should be added in VERY small quantities after the ganache has become smooth . The first option may be combined with the 2nd or 3rd . If you choose to combine the 2nd and 3rd options you would have to use half of each , because doubling the liquid in a ganache will either change the consistency or cause it to break .
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Short answer : yes , milk chocolate differs from chocolate by the milk its manufacture . Real chocolate ( as opposed to many other confections ) is made from chocolate liquer , which despite the name , is not alchoholic , or even liquid at room temperature . The fruit of the <URL> tree contains seeds , known as beans . The harvested fruits are allowed to ferment , bringing many flavor and chemical changes to the beans , as well as removing the pulpy fruit . The beans are then husked for the seeds inside , the nibs . The nibs are the first true chocolate product , although they are not sweet . The nibs are roasted , and then ground . This is chocolate liquer , a solid colloid of cocoa fat and solid particles . It would be solid at room temperature , but the grinding process melts it . The cocoa liquer can be pressed to separate out the cocoa butter ( as for use in the cosmetics industry ) , leaving cocoa powder , but that is not the point of your question . Instead , to manufacture chocolate , the liquer is <URL> , a mechanical process that makes the suspended particles much smaller , part of what gives chocolate its smooth mouthfeel . Various products can be made from chocolate liquer , or cocoa butter , including : baking chocolate - essentially , just chocolate liquer , hardened and tempereded . May or may not be fully conched , so may not be as smooth as chocolate intended for eating . chocolate or dark chocolate - Chocolate liquer , possibly extra cocoa butter , and sugar . Minor optional ingredients often included are vanilla or other flavorings , and lecithen , an emulsifier . milk chocolate - Same as dark chocolate , with the addition of condensed milk or milk solids , depending on whether it is made via the Swiss method or the Hershey method white chocolate - cocoa butter , plus sugar and other flavorings chocolate chips - Another form of chocolate in a particular shape . Many manufacturers do n't make these from true chocolate , but rather substitute another fat which does n't melt as easily as cocoa butter , for economy , and so the chips hold their shape in the oven chocolate bunny - Chocolate molded into the shape of a bunny , then tempered and cooled German 's chocolate - A brand name of quite sweet dark chocolate Chocolate labels which list " cocoa percentage " are saying what proportion of the chocolate is cocoa liquer or additional cocoa butter or cocoa solids -- that is , stuff from nibs , as opposed to sugar or other flavorings . The cocoa percentage for milk chocolate tends to be much lower than that of dark chocolates , although not every milk chocolate has a lower percentage than every dark chocolate . See <URL> for information on tempering chocolate , which gives its snappy mouthfeel . Edit : On dairy products in dark chocolate : I was very surprised at Lemontwist 's comment , so I did some googling and found this <URL> : A good quality dark or semi-sweet chocolate will only have sweetener / sugar in some form added , and may also include a touch of soy lecithin as an emulsifier . These brands are milk-free by ingredients , but keep in mind that most brands of chocolate are made on shared equipment . That is , an inherently milk-free dark chocolate may be made on the same equipment as milk chocolate . See below for my note on cross-contamination issues . The complications arrive as some brands of dark and semi-sweet chocolate do include milk ingredients for a " smoother " end result . This is particularly true in mainstream brands like Hershey 's . Some ways that you may see milk listed in the ingredients include milk solids , milk , milk powder , whey , butter oil or butterfat ( see the Ask Alisa post on butter oil ) , or even casein . If milk is in the ingredients , it should be listed in a clearly identifiable manner per the labeling laws , but still , use caution . This is still in line with the information I provided , as I did mention " other flavorings " in dark chocolate , and it is not a universal or even common practice as far as I know . For people with strong allergies , the cross-contamination issue may be more of an issue . Vegans would have more of an issue , as lecithen is a very common ingredient in chocolate of all types , and may be animal sourced . Vegans would specifically need to reseearch and obtain chocolates that meet that standard . Googling will find many such products , but I did not find an easy single reference list .
If you want your Kombucha be strong , consistent , and to taste like a commercial one , then you need to use the same SCOBY contained in a commercial kombucha . Remember , making Kombucha , just like brewing wine , mead , or beer , is nothing more than glorified yeast herding . You give the SCOBY what it wants to eat , and it does the rest . It 's really that simple . You just need the same starter as a commercial company . Now , many companies spend years perfecting their strains of yeast/bacteria , and trying to raise your own or getting a starter from " some guy " often just wo n't compare because it is either weak , or it has n't been fed properly , it contains too much acetalbacter , etc. . So , how do you do it ? You use the SCOBY that commercial kombucha makers provide you in the bottle and propagate it . In homebrewing we use a similar procedure called " washing yeast , " where you take a commercial beer , drink the majority , and then use the dregs of yeast at the bottom to ferment your own beer . Start with an unpasteurized , raw commercial bottle of Kombucha that you like that has not been sorbated or sulfited . Check the bottle for wisps of sediment in the bottle , indicating that it contains some mother , the more the better . Then , you prepare food ( black tea and sugar ) , and mix the two . Cover with some cloth , store in a warm ( I would guess at 65-70 degrees F based on my experience brewing wine/beer and alsoo purposely making vinegar ) and dark place , and let the mother start to grow . It 'll take 2-3 feedings before you have a strong mother , but it should form . If it does n't ? Grab another bottle of kombucha and try again . This link explains the process in better detail . <URL> Once you have the mother , just continue feeding and do whatever you can not to break the cycle of feedings so it does n't get stressed . You are dealing with living things , and so they will have a tendency to fall into cycles . If you break the cycles , they 'll get stressed .
end question
start question
How do I prevent dougnuts deflating when moving them into the pan ?
I suspect @Stephie is correct in thinking they may be over proofed . Having said that , you could try the method that is used when making crullers . Place shaped donuts on parchment paper that has been sprayed with non-stick cooking spray . Cut the paper into individual squares ( each donut should have enough space to raise without expanding off the paper ) . Let raise . When ready to fry , just slip the paper with donut into your oil , it should release right away and you can remove the paper from the oil with tongs . Here is a link to <URL> . You can skip the first 3 minutes that shows the mixing and piping of the crullers .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Yes , it certainly is safe to eat them , it happens all the time . They wo n't last quite as long in the fridge as ones which do n't crack , but as long as you eat them in a couple of days you are fine . They may look like nuclear mutants but they will taste the same .
Perhaps you got what Argentines call tira de asado , which looks like <URL> . If so , Argentines salt it well and barbecue it on a slow heat for about an hour , the majority of the time with the bone side to the heat . At home I would try cooking it in a very low oven for a couple of hours . Slow braising would also work . If what you have lacks even the thin layer of meat you see in the picture then you got tira de asado after they took off the tapa ( cover ) de asado . Then you basically got stock bones . Make soup . ( But skim off the abundant fat that will accumulate . )
Depending on where you live , there is a pretty simple approach you can try . In the next few days , head out to places that specialize in particular kinds of foods and in making them appeal to you . A farmer 's market , a butcher 's , a cheese shop , a bakery , etc. . Chat with the staff and buy whatever speaks to you in the store . When you come home , make whatever meals you feel inspired to make according to what you 've bought . Be creative and impulsive and seasonal . Keep doing that until one day you notice there is n't any food , and either go out and shop or eat something canned and go to shop the next day . In probably a week 's time , one of two things will happen . Either you will be feeling free , creative , inspired etc and so happy you are doing things this new way , or you will have thrown out a lot of expensive food that spoiled before you could use it , and be feeling very stressed and unhappy at 4 or 5 pm each day because you have to figure out what to make . If it 's the former , mission accomplished . If it 's the latter , you now have your motivation for the planning and the list making , and should find it more pleasant since you know its purpose and what it is saving you from . Either way , the " I hate having to plan my meals " feeling should diminish drastically .
The vegetables are likely to cook more during the reheating process , so if you do n't want that you 'll have to cook them less initially . They wo n't be the same as if you 'd stir-fried them to perfection and eaten them straight away of course , but this is something I do myself when preparing meals to reheat at work . So , basically , the answer to your question is " yes " .
For metal pans , lining them wo n't significantly affect the cooking time -- the reason they cook differently is because of how much radiant heat they reflect . ( dark absorbs , light reflects ) . For a glass pan , however , I would think that if you use aluminum foil , or something light and reflective , that it could make it cook more like a light metal pan , as the issue in the glass pan is that it allows almost all of the radiant heat through without reflecting it . I 've never tested it , though .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
Ok so you said salmon fillet . So my first question is how big is the filet . Fish do n't develop protein chains to hold together the same way red meat has . So the flakes do n't really hold together if pulled too hard , so I wonder if your fillets are too big . When I cook fish , especially salmon I try cut the fillet into serving sizes portions , maybe 2 inches across ( assuming a full sized fish here ) . This helps keep the fish to a manageable size . There is also a tool that is very aptly named because it was designed for this use and it 's called a fish turner . This is a thin and springy or turner that would better with fish because when scooping up the fish it does n't force the fish to reshape itself to the more rigid spatula and therefore you get less fish breaking apart . Do not turn the fish too many times . Leave it on one side and let it do all the cooking on that side that it needs , flip it once and let it finish . This will produce a nice crusty finish . As far as getting it to cook through the center , well that takes patience . Cook on a medium low heat but cook it for longer , like 8 minutes on each side ( experiment , do n't rely on my telling you 8 minutes ) . Then when you take the fish off the pan , put it on the plate and let it rest for a few more minutes . The fish will still be cooking on the inside and will finish up if you do n't serve it too early , but of course do n't wait so long that the fish cools . You want to serve it while it 's still hot , but not scalding hot .
I see no reason that a cast iron waffle pan should be treated differently in regards to seasoning than other cast iron . Since it wo n't be cooking anything with significant fat in it naturally , if anything it may be more important ! Seasoning is both for non-stick reason and non-oxidizing reasons . Season it well on your own , then use it with some fat ( of some kind ) very lightly brushed on to keep it well . Only brushing right before use will keep one good likely , but would take a long , long time to naturally season since a large portion of the fat will immediately get used by the food . Cast iron gets gummy if you either 1 ) season with a spray like Pam consistently or 2 ) do n't cook your seasoning long enough and/or high enough . Use a fat , bacon fat , would be great here and season away - properly . In regards to seasoning , I recommend checking out <URL> , as its unneeded to replicate detailed information elsewhere in the site .
I keep it on low heat after I 've gotten it up to boiling initially . It will stick sometimes , but after I stir it , the stuck stuff will be reabsorbed into the water . I try to get as much stuff as possible unstuck when stirring , and then a moment later the remainder will have magically become unstuck . I guess it sticks because the water rises and the oats precipitate down to the bottom of the pot ; conversely , it magically unsticks because the stuck oats get reabsorbed into the water . I find it 's okay as long as I stir it every few minutes . I turn the heat off after a bit , usually when big , slow bubbles start to balloon up or it just looks like it 's thick enough . At this point it wo n't be totally thickened , but it will have absorbed enough heat to make it the rest of the way , so I just let it sit on the stove for another 10 minutes or so , maybe more . I also go 2:1 water : oats . . actually a bit more water than that , probably 2.2:1 . This is partly to compensate for the small amount of water that will boil off even though the lid is on when I 'm not stirring it .
1 . The main nutrients destroyed by heating are vitamins from B complex and vitamin C ( possible loss 50-70 % ) . ( <URL> ) . The extent of this effect depends on the temperature , so roasting in oil can have more negative effect than cooking in water . 2 . Minerals , such as potassium , are not destroyed by heating , but they can leak into the cooking water . So , boiled potatoes can have less potassium than roasted . Boiled potatoes , in skin ( 1/2 cup , 78 g ) : 296 mg ( <URL> ) Baked potatoes , in skin [ should be similar to roasted , I could n't find ] : ( 80 g ) : 440 mg ( <URL> ) A side note : sodium partially counteracts the effects of potassium in your body , so if you worry about potassium intake you may also worry about salt intake . ( <URL> ) 3 . Oil slows down stomach emptying thus slowing carbohydrate absorption and therefore lowering the glycemic index of a given roasted vegetable . Anyway , this sounds as overthinking to me . From the other viewpoint , roasted foods are heavier for the stomach , so they can increase the discomfort after meals . 4 . Heating disinfects foods and makes them more digestible . I 'm not aware that roasting in oil would be better in this regard than boiling in water . Roasted potatoes will retain more potassium than the boiled ones , but this alone is not already a " beneficial health effect . " On the other hand you may consume more calories than intended vegetables roasted on oil . 5 . Cooking , cooling and reheating can increase the amount of resistant starch in the food ; this would , obviously , have a significant effect only in starchy vegetables ( potatoes , red kidney beans , chickpeas ) rather in greens ( <URL> ) . I have not found any reliable information about significant health benefits of resistant starches , anyway . My conclusion : I do not consider roasting healthier than cooking in water ( boiling ) : more vitamins destroyed , heavier stomach after meals , greater unnecessary calorie intake from oil .
Moisture-release is not a result of the cooking process but of the quality of the chicken . Try the following experiment : Buy halal or kosher chicken breast Buy the cheapest chicken breast you can find . Now put two pans on the stove , and put the industrial chicken breast in the left pan and put the kosher/halal in the right . Ensure both pans have the same heat setting , the same amount of fat ( I prefer duck fat for frying chicken breast ) and watch the amount of moisture coming out of the left one and the fat actually being soaked up by the right one . So the easiest way to avoid this is to buy good quality chicken ...
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
You should n't cook more than a few minutes , and should cool them as quickly as possible afterwards . Ideally , you 'll be blanching them , and here 's how : Bring a pot of water with a pinch of salt in it to a roiling boil Dump beans in , and cook for a few minutes Check that beans are fully cooked ( time will vary by variety and ripeness of beans ) Strain beans , and IMMEDIATELY transfer to an prepared ice water bath to cool as fast as possible This ensures beans are precisely cooked , but do not have a chance to over-cook , and using the ice water helps them retain color and flavor . It 's how we get deliciously crisp haricot vert ( French green beans ) at the restaurant I work for . Note that cooking times and crispness will also vary based on the variety and age at which the beans were picked .
Adding oil or butter makes scrambled eggs more creamy by giving the egg protein something to hold onto and not curl as tight . The ideal formula for scrambled eggs is one extra yolk for every 4 eggs plus a little fat . I did n't like scrambled eggs until I tried this formula and it 's awesome . Credit goes to either Jack Bishop ( Cooks Illustrated ) and/or Nathan Myhrvold ( Modernist Cuisine ) unfortunately I ca n't remember which of the two clever gents I heard it from .
This really depends on your freezer and your icecream bowl . Usually the instructions will have a suggested freeze time on them ... In my experience , however , it 's usually 6-8 hours at a minimum . If you need to make multiple batches , it is ABSOLUTELY worth your money to get another bowl .
I would crispen the outside a bit by frying or baking them first . To improve the outer crust , you might dust with flour and corn starch before frying . Typically I have not previously had problems with meat balls in sauce becoming mushy using minimally breaded mix , spices , and lean - ish ( 90 % ) ground meat . Here are some additional points to consider ; If you use bread in your meatball mix , you might tilt the ratio more in favor of the meat If you are not using egg or some other binder , you might try doing so to create a tighter bond inside the ball If you are cooking the sauce at too high a heat ( I normally have mine set as low as possible when doing a long cook ) it may come to a simmer , making the sauce likelier to disrupt the meatballs . Maintain a lower heat or use a heavier pot If you are using ground meat , there is more room for the sauce to creep in . Make sure that they are packed sufficiently tightly when rolling them Short of leaving the sauce and meat overnight , flavors will transfer more quickly in warmer temperatures . I am having trouble locating definitive resources to back this claim up , so I am speaking mainly from experience . However , one caveat exists particular to collagen and connective tissues in meat ; <URL> . Mixing water and strong acids is an exothermic process ( gives off heat , does not benefit from warmth ) . However , this process is about mixing strong acids and fats . I would also mention that you are supposed to store tomatoes at room temp as the cold does not preserve their flavor and inhibits ripening , though I 'm not sure this is relevant .
end question
start question
Can I put a layer of almond paste in my tart that will not be baked ?
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
Seems almost every question about bacteria seems to bring about both the bacteriophobes and the cavalier . In this case , the cavalier are probably closer to being right , but I 'll try to present the facts so that you can decide for yourself . The most common microbe groups responsible for household food poisoning are : Salmonella , found in poultry , <URL> the <URL> . CDT can be denatured ( technically , " heat-labile " ) but is one of the most resistant toxins , taking <URL> to destroy . This type of bacteria is n't normally associated with eggs , but since chicken eggs and other poultry products may be handled in the same area , it 's not unthinkable that the shells could become contaminated - and depending on how you handle the eggs , so could the frying pan . E.Coli is normally associated with beef but is also <URL> . It 's improbable , but not impossible for it to be <URL> as well . This is a bit of a weird one because <URL> , but not in the yolk itself or the frying pan . The strains of e.coli associated with food poisoning encode <URL> ( SLT ) and also <URL> , the latter of which are often heat stable . I 'm not sure about SLT , but the STs can <URL> . <URL> ( causing Campylobacteriosis ) produces certain enterotoxins and <URL> . As above , these tend to be heat-resistant . <URL> is responsible for for botulism and is ubiquitous . The spores are incredibly difficult to kill but they are also only harmful to infants and the immunodepressed . More importantly , the bacteria are killed by heating to 85 ° C for 5 minutes and are also anaerobic - meaning they can only grow when they are not exposed to air . In other words , these may be present , but wo n't grow and produce toxins on a reasonably clean pan . <URL> is one of the most common sources of food poisoning , and I believe is actually what drives a lot of the specific food safety/food inspection rules . The spores are very heat resistant ( can survive boiling for a full hour ) , and even though it is anaerobic , <URL> . It can grow on a pan - just more slowly than it would grow in an enclosed container or in raw/fresh food . <URL> causes staph infections but also produces heat-resistant enterotoxins . It does n't generally come from food , but more than 20 % of humans are carriers , and also many pets ( cats and dogs ) , so it is very likely in your household somewhere and can easily get on your frying pan and multiply on leftover food bits . <URL> is less common but very resilient ( they 're known for " fried rice syndrome " because they can survive steaming ) and afterward produce spores and heat-resistant enterotoxins . Important to note that many strains of this are harmless - but not all . <URL> causes ( as you may have guessed ) cholera symptoms which come from CTX and TCP toxins . Both of these are heat-labile although I was n't able to find a time/temperature data point . Chances are , you have at least one these friends in your kitchen . Chances are , you have several . The question is , did enough of them manage to get onto your frying pan after your last meal to produce dangerous levels of toxins ? Probably not . It 's really very unlikely . But it is possible , and you 're taking a chance if you do n't wash your dishes . In fact , it 's probably more dangerous with eggs , because typically you 'd cook eggs only up to a temperature of around 70 ° C , at most ( 63 ° is the temperature at which they set ) . So day after day you 're bringing all those lovely bacteria right into the <URL> for several minutes and not staying above it for very long at all ! Doing this one time ... really not a big deal . Bacteria do n't get to multiply much in the 5 minutes ( or less ) it takes to fry an egg , and most eggs are n't even contaminated to begin with , although <URL> . But doing this several times , day after day - you 're increasing your risk each day because the pan may never get hot enough , long enough , to kill all of the new bacteria from the day before . I would strongly recommend that you wash your pans after use . You do n't need to use soap if they 're cast-iron ; a good scrub with salt and hot water is fine . But please - especially if you 're going to be cooking for guests - do n't just leave the dirty pans sitting there and use them again the next day without washing them first . It 's not safe . P.S. I 'd like to draw attention to the fact that of all of the items in the list above , botulism , despite having some of the worst symptoms , is generally the least of your worries . Both the bacteria and the toxin are easy to kill , and the spores are harmless to healthy adults . So if you hear people on this site or any site talk about food safety entirely in terms of botulism and the temperatures required to kill/inactivate the bacteria/toxin , ignore them , because they have n't done their homework .
It 's meant to be munched on between sips , and permits a " reset " - the cocktail will be fresh upon the tongue the sip after the bite , permitting you to enjoy its flavor and consistency without being oppressed by the cumulative effect of unctuous , spice and salt that is the hallmark of the beverage . Celery is an astringent and an aromatic - it will cut through the palate-coating tomato juice can leave behind , cool the intensity of the salt and heat , and will interrupt the soup-like consistency with a firm crunch . It 's often included in tuna and chicken salad and served with hot wings for the same reason . Other vegetables that tickle our sense of " bitter " in a pleasing way may be similarly substituted - but celery also acts as a handy swizzle stick .
Welcome . According to the excerpt below from <URL> , kidney beans are an acceptable substitute . azuki bean = adzuki bean = Tiensin red bean = aduki bean = asuki bean = field pea = red Oriental bean = feijao bean = red chori Equivalents : 1 cup dried yields 3 cups cooked beans Pronunciation : a-ZOO-kee Notes : The Japanese use these small red beans to make sweet red bean paste , but they 're also good in rice dishes or salads . Azuki beans are sweet and relatively easy to digest , so they wo n't make you as gassy as other beans . They also do n't take as long to cook . Substitutes : black azuki beans OR red kidney beans OR Tolosana beans That said , while you may be able to substitute them you may need to make adjustments to end up with a similar bean paste . For example you may need to add more sugar as adzuki beans have a natural slightly sweet flavor . Also , even though you have canned beans , they may require a bit of cooking to get them to the right softness . ( Adzuki beans tend to have a very creamy texture . ) Note that dark red kidney beans tend to be more firm than light red . All said and done , you can probably make adjustments and end up with a slightly different result . But as for me , I would get the adzuki beans .
The best resource I 've seen is here at <URL> . Egg yolk produces a shiny and dark look but remains soft . Egg white is still soft but less shiny . Milk and water only darken it slightly and produce what the article calls a ' satin ' look . Butter makes it shiny , smooth , rich , and well , buttery !
I 'd look towards a dutch oven and cake-like items : upside-down cakes cobblers / crisps / grunts / bettys / slumps / etc. . In all of these , the fruit on the bottom helps to protect from the bottom of the cake-like-item cooking too quickly . You can either cook directly in the dutch oven , or drop another pan inside the dutch oven to speed on cleaning if you 're going to be cooking a few of 'em . You 'll also want to look for dutch ovens that are made for baking -- they have a lip on the lid , so you can put coals on top and pull the lid without the ash falling into what you 're cooking .
You may wish to try a dark colored baking sheet , such as <URL> ( not an endorsement , I have n't tried it . ) The dark finish will help absorb radiant heat , which is a major mode in baking , and better brown the bottoms . In fact , such a tray probably would bake too fast for the bottoms of cookies . Buttering it will also help conduct heat from the pan to the bottom crust , although you will also get a touch of that almost-fried texture ( I like it , but it might not be what you have in mind ) .
The possible risks I can think of are ( 1 ) the large thermal mass may mean that the soup cools off too slowly , leading to spoilage in the middle , and ( 2 ) freezer burn on the top of the soup , because there 's no truly effective way to seal out air from a pot . In practice , ( 1 ) is unlikely unless you 're talking about a 25-gallon pot or something , in which case it would n't fit in an ordinary freezer anyway . ( 2 ) on the other hand will be a problem , unless you 're only freezing the soup for a short period . The only risk to the pot is that it may not quite fit in the freezer comfortably , so as people take things out and put things in , they may shove the pot about and maybe break a handle or something .
From my experience and what I 've seen , garlic cloves are often applied to soup in un-chopped glove . Overtime , the boiling will release the garlic 's sweet to the soup without melting itself into the liquid or dissolving into tidbits that attached to the ingredients . I have also seen people pan fry the garlic gloves to golden brown before dumping them into the water . I believe the purpose is to harden the outside of the garlic while getting more exotic flavor out of it . Otherwise , I would chop/dice/smash garlic for dips and frying .
There are several things that keep frozen desserts ( ice cream and sorbet , not just sherbet ) from freezing into a block of ice . They 're essentially all the ingredients besides water . If you have too little of these things , you 'll have very hard ice cream ; if you have too much , it might never get firm enough to scoop in your freezer . Fat - ice cream is the easiest to get soft , since it contains the most dairy , but this works on sherbet too . The more cream , the softer . But even butter freezes hard , so this is n't going to keep it from setting . Sugar - this is pretty easy to vary in all frozen desserts . It 'll have a noticeable effect on softness , but reasonable quantities wo n't make it too soft . Alcohol - obviously you wo n't always want to use this , but the right alcohol often goes very nicely with sorbets . Enough alcohol would of course keep it from setting , but it takes a lot . A sorbet made from wine , sugar , and strawberries still sets , though it 's quite soft . Air - this gives the dessert a softer , fluffier texture , but of course wo n't ever stop it from freezing . Make sure to churn things long enough , though you can only ever do as well as your ice cream machine lets you . Additives - gelatin is the main one that 's common in kitchens ; guar gum , and xantham gum are next up . There are also various stabilizers for keeping ice cream smooth . I do n't think I 've ever seen a recipe for a frozen dessert that would n't set at all . It takes an awful lot of fat , sugar , or alcohol just to get it too soft . My best guess in the case of what you saw on TV is that she either went overboard with some kind of additive , or did n't manage to properly freeze it . Note that with home ice cream makers , things will be at least a bit too soft coming straight out of the machine - but they 'll set much harder in the freezer . In practice , if you 're making your own , the problem you 'll reliably have ( especially with random recipes online ) is that it 's too hard . Storebought frozen desserts if anything tend to have more sugar and fat than you 'd use at home , and often have additives to soften and stabilize on top of that . So most things you make at home will tend to be harder than what you buy in the store . Credit where it 's due : I learned some of this from the introduction to <URL> by David Lebovitz ; a lot of similar information is available in <URL> .
Referring to the quotes from the below links ; • " Baked cheesecake should be refrigerated as soon as it is cool or it may develop harmful bacteria from heat resistant spores . " <URL> • " Foods made with eggs and milk such as pumpkin pie , custard pie and cheesecake , must first be safely baked to a safe minimum internal temperature of 160 ° F. Then , they must be refrigerated after baking . Eggs and milk have high protein and moisture content and when these baked products are left at room temperature , conditions are ripe for bacteria to multiply . It 's not necessary to refrigerate most other cakes , cookies or breads unless they have a perishable filling or frosting . " <URL> When to throw it out ; a quote from the link below ; " Refrigerator Foods When to Save and When to Throw It Out FOOD ... ... ... ... . Held above 40 ° F for over 2 hours Cheesecake ... ... . . Discard <URL>
<URL> describes the process by which yeast is commercially prepared in good detail for an overview . There are several stages of cultivation and growing and increasing the yeast biomass , culminating as its final steps : Treatments and packaging The yeast in the final trade bioreactor is concentrated by centrifugation and finally harvested by a filter press or a rotary vacuum filter , until it contains 27 -- 33 % of dry cell mass . The yeast cake is blended with suitable amounts of water and emulsifiers and cutting oils ( soybean or cottonseed oil ) to obtain its extrudable form . The yeast is then packaged and shipped as compressed fresh baker 's yeast , or thermolysed and dried to form various types of dry yeast . The dried yeast is packed under vacuum or nitrogen atmosphere . The packaging method varies among manufacturers and depends on the type of yeast product . Note that this process requires assorted items of industrial or laboratory equipment which may not be suitable to the home environment , including centrifuges and filter presses or vacuuum filters . If you really only want to preserve your starter strain without maintaining an active starter , simply drying a sample and then storing it in the freezer may be a better option . This process is described at <URL> .
<URL> is the bark of a tree . It is either sold as rolled strips of bark ( = cinnamon sticks ) or ground . It will not dissolve , neither in water nor in alcohol . What you want to do is basically the same as was done commercially with the vanilla extract you are already using : Extract the taste , then discard the bark itself . Alcohol is a good choice for extracting volatile aromatics . You could try and soak a few cinnamon sticks or a few tablespoons of ground cinnamon in a " neutral " alcohol like vodka or - if you are using it exclusively for your signature drink - use the brandy . This process might take from a few days to a few weeks , so nothing you can do " on the spur of the moment " . Another good carrier for the cinnamon taste would be water . You can simmer a few cinnamon sticks in water , then sieve . This is the same method that is used for mulled wine or mulled cider . To extend the shelf life of the " cinnamon water " , you might considering turning it into simple syrup by boiling it with an equal amount of sugar . Whether you use water or alcohol is a question of personal taste and planned other uses . The shelf life of an alcohol based extract might be longer , but with a sufficiently high sugar content , clean handling and refrigeration the syrup will last long , too . Time is a factor : The syrup can be ready and cooled in an hour or so , whereas the alcohol will take significantly more time . Both methods work for vanilla , too - you could even make a " instant mix " for your drink . Be warned , though : Filtering ground cinnamon from a liquid can be quite a hassle . It tends to clog coffe filters , but is too fine to be held back by a sieve . If you decide to use ground cinnamon because that 's what you have at hand , consider letting it settle at the bottom of your container and carefully decanting the liquid from top . A coffe filter or a cloth-lined sieve can catch stray particles . You should get much better results by using whole or coarsely crushed cinnamon sticks . There has been an ongoing discussion on what kind of cinnamon to use , so a short wrap-up here : Cinnamon is derived from a group of plants , which vary in their properties and compounds . Especially <URL> , a substance also found in tonka bean , woodruff and other plants , has been widely discussed for its toxicity and is regulated in the EU . <URL> has the highest content whereas <URL> contains only traces . From a culinary point , the cheaper cassia , which contains more bark and is usually sold ground or in pieces , is often considered inferior in taste to the true cinnamon , which often comes in sticks . I will not venture a statement here , neither on health nor culinary claims . I am sure every reader of this post is capable of making an informed decision .
I 've used both sugar and orange juice to sweeten mulled wine in the past , but obviously orange juice would change the flavour significantly . Add more sugar slowly , tasting as you go .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
If cooled and stored properly ( minimize air space in the container ) , most soups will should last in the refrigerator up to 5 days . Do you really want to be eating the same soup that long ? I would suggest dividing your soups into smaller sized containers and freezing it so you have a wide selection available at any given time . Depending on the ingredients most soups can be succesfully frozen for long term storage . Dairy based items are more likely to curdle/separate after thawing so you 'd be better to add the cream/milk when you 're reheating it . Chunks of potato or pasta are likely to break up a bit and have a more mealy consistency so it would also be better to leave the potato out and add to it and cook when reheating .
I would not eat any soup containing meat more than a day or two after it was cooked , and certainly not if it smelled suspicious . The logic with this kind of thing is simple . If you have any doubts , chuck it out . Not getting food poisoning is worth losing a little soup over .
Your common ' non-solid ' high-protein items are : peanut butter , or other nut butters eggs yogurt cheese ( cream cheese or served melted ) tofu Depending on how strict you 're being with the fat intake , you can go even further ... low fat or non-fat yogurts and cheese ( eg . neufchâtel instead of cream cheese ) ; whites only for the eggs , etc. . Be warned that if you try to go too low-fat during this time , your body might actually crave more feed , making the problem worse . If it 's not a problem with your body being unable to process fats , you might want to reduce protein but increase fats during this time . The good news is that unless you 're a body builder , having a lower protein diet for a week or two while things heal wo n't cause your body to start eating itself -- in fact , most American diets have more protein in it than our bodies need -- about 3-5oz of meat per day ( not per meal ) is enough ; exact amount depends on your size and build . As you can get away with soft foods , and not just non-solid : Scrambled eggs ( leave out a few yolks if you 're really sensitive to the fat ) . Pulled pork , roja vieja , pot roast cooked ' ragout ' , or similar ( you might need to also chop it up if the bits of meat are long ) . Pasta with an egg sauce ( like carbonara , but might have to avoid the black pepper and/or crispy meat ... might be able to use a soft ham and/or add extra salt or worcestershire ) or a cheese sauce ( eg , macaroni and cheese , alfredo ) Tuna fish ( canned in water ; can either make into a tuna salad ( avoid celery . Use a grater to extract onion juice for flavor without solid bits of onion . Pickle brine can help brighten it up while being non-solid ) Refried beans ( make your own , and you can cut down the fat significantly ) Many soups . ( either make a strong stock , cook the meat 'til it 's soft , or put it through a blender ... or egg drop soup ) Cheesecake ( use neufchâtel cheese , or find a recipe that uses soft tofu ) Flan , custards , or ice cream ( made with a custard base , but low-fat milk ) You can also work some extra protein into other dishes ... thin your mashed potatoes with ( pre-heated ) stock a bit more than you typically would , then while still hot , blend in a egg or two . Or add neufchâtel cheese instead of milk or butter ( add stock if you still need to thin it further for your tastes )
There is some slight confusion but there are two methods for this . You either cook the egg separately , which is how they make BiBimBop or you poach or bake the eggs if you cook the egg on top of your food . With the latter method , the eggs generally cook very quickly so it does n't take a lot of time but you are still cooking the egg using a heat source , you are not relying on the food to cook the egg for you . When you make BiBimBop using a whole egg , you fry the egg in a pan before you place it on top of the food . This is why the egg often has a bit of browning around the edges of the white . Here 's an image of a BiBimBop with a whole egg : <URL> There is a " how to make BiBimBop " video <URL> that shows ( around 8:50 in ) that you cook the egg separately and place it on top of the finished bowl . The other option is to bake or poach the egg by placing them on top of the food ( which is still on the stove ) and then covering the pan ( or putting it in the oven ) to essentially steam the egg , which is often used for hash . This gives a different final product than frying the egg and placing it on top , as the steam will cook the top of the egg while the still-cooking food heats the bottom . Here 's a <URL> of Venison Hash where they use this method at around 5:05 . And here 's a <URL> that uses the oven version of this method . <URL>
I would not go ahead and just toss water on the oven floor as this can both damage your oven , as well as lower its temperature . Instead , I would use a baking pan with some boiling water , put it on the lowest rack . The temperature of the oven will keep the water boiling , and thus releasing steam throughout the baking .
end question
start question
Can a rice cooker make amounts much smaller than its rating ?
As I note in <URL> , I use the exact model you are considering . It is one of the best gadgets I 've purchased . It has no problem making any batch down to 1 cup in size . Being able to cook the full 5.5 cups when entertaining is invaluable as well . I will sometimes cook more than I need for lunch the next day , as well as making fried rice for the following night 's dinner . Bottom line : you wo n't regret the purchase .
In cooking rice or many other grains ( and even some grain based products such as pasta ) , two things actually happen : The starches absorb water ; they are hydrated . Cooking . The boiling phase does both at the same time , very efficiently , but sufficient hydration happens before the rice is fully cooked through . So steaming to finish allows the rice to be fully cooked . If you just simmer , things would simply take longer . The reason to turn the heat down is to not burn the rice at the bottom during the steaming phase .
A bunch of spinach usually weighs something like 250-500 grams . My best guess is that something like half that is the stems , which can easily be as long as the leaves . So very roughly , I 'd say a bunch is 125-250 grams . Alternately , if you want to go by volume ( e.g. if your store has bulk loose baby spinach ) , think of a bunch as something like a head of lettuce , except with the bottom third to half mostly stems . Full-size spinach also definitely gets a lot better than 4x6 cm leaves , so you may still be using somewhat more tender baby spinach , but that of course wo n't cause you any problems . ( The stems on baby spinach are tender enough to eat , especially when blending , so you can use everything in your bags . ) In any case , smoothies are really forgiving - not only do you not need a lot of precision , but you can just add and blend until the color and flavor look how you want !
There should n't need to be any variation in the water at all , since the things that you are adding are already hydrated and are not taking in any water . Indeed , it would be possible that some vegetables might even give off water . I would be more inclined to look to whether you are measuring accurately every time you use the rice cooker ( just asking ) and then , if so , whether your rice cooker is consistent . I had an inexpensive rice cooker that I liked for the convenience , but it was inconsistent on turning off , so the results were a little too varied , OK for me , but not when I was serving other people . The only other thing to consider is that many rice cookers work on a temperature principle ... when the temperature starts to rise ( meaning the water has been absorbed ) the cooker shuts off . If the ingredients you are adding are raising the temperature of boiling ( as in a lot of salt , say ) then it is possible that you cooker is shutting off before the rice is cooked , and then the water is absorbed or evaporates , but the rice cooks no further . I would pay very close attention to your measuring ( rice and water ) for the next couple of batches and see if that fixes the problem .
It sounds like your water melon simply spoiled in the refrigerator . It is a very perishable food , once the rind is cut off , as it is basically a sugar syrup waiting to be eaten by whatever comes along -- people , dogs , bacteria , yeasts , molds , whatever . The milky liquid would be waste from the metabolization processes of whatever colonized the water melon . You are probably wise not to eat it ; just discard it . Some signs of past-prime watermelon include -- but all of these border on signs of spoiled , because it is a continuous process : Aroma : If you detect an alcoholic , winy , or boozy smell , it is a sign the flesh has started to ferment . Another sign is when the rind is not taught and firm . The melon is light for its size , indicating it may have lost moisture
I 'd be more concerned about the meat 's safety than taste/texture . " Warm " thawing creates the perfect environment for bacteria growth . That having been said , my experience mainly involves the use of a microwave to thaw meat . When microwaving meat to thaw , try to avoid the meat having corners or protrusions . This adversely affects taste/texture because they usually start to cook before the rest of the meat thaws . Freeze ground meat , in a circular shape with a hole in the middle for quickest microwave thawing time . When thawing meat ' parts ' place them in a circle , thickest side outward . So long as no noticeable cooking has started , the taste/texture should be fine . Cook immediately .
Basmati rice is supposed to flow freely though , if it clumps , you are using it against the norm and should probably stick with a stickier rice . Usually Basmati is used Pilau style , or in a Biryiani , then the grains are slightly coated in some form of fat ( oil , ghee , etc ) , so the starch you would definitely want rid of .
Yes , you can squeeze citrus too much . That bitterness you sometimes taste in citrus fruit comes from limonin , a compound that most people can detect at concentrations as small as a few parts per million . In many citrus fruits the limonin is created once the acids of the juice vesicles interact with LARL , a tasteless substance in the fruit 's tissues ( <URL> ) . In the juice of a squeezed lime the reaction from LARL to limonin takes a few hours to complete , so if it is very fresh it will not be as bitter . Over-squeezing , as in using a pestle , will expose more of the tissue ( and therefore LARL ) resulting in more bitterness later on . If the peels are in the mix , it will also extract some of the oils ( mainly limonene ) from the peel , which is very bitter . So bitter , that <URL> are designed so that the juice extracts never touch the peel . During summer , guests often ask for caipirinhas at our house . I like to imagine that it is because I peel my limes , remove most of the white pith including stem , and try to mash the limes just before mixing the drink . This way it requires less sugar allowing those great citrus flavors to stand out .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
It 's very difficult . The trapped moisture can keep the meatloaf from drying out sufficiently to brown well . ... but if you vent the steam , you 're also releasing a lot of the heat , so it might cool off too much . I 'd personally try turning up the heat to high and leaving the lid askew for the last 15 minutes or so of cooking , and see if that gives you the desired effect . You may also want to remove some of the liquid ( but not all , as it 'll help to regulate the heat and prevent the bottom from getting too far overcooked ) I suspect that the laws regarding ' food styling ' as it applies to recipes in magazines are n't as vigorous as for advertising a product they want to sell you in stores or a restaurant . ( where they have to use only the same techniques and ingredients as what 's being advertised ... although if it 's for cereal , they do n't have to use milk ... and if it 's pie , that does n't have to be real ice cream , etc. ) . If you just want it ' brown ' , then a spray of soy-sauce will do it . If you want it actually ' browned ' ( ie , with an actual crust ) , you can take a propane torch to it . ( although I 'd do it out of the crock pot -- ceramics do n't take well to high heat from one side only )
I usually use 1/4 cup per person for a smallish portion , and 1/3 cup per person if you 're a bit hungrier . You 'll probably want to check the instructions for your rice cooker to check exactly how much water you should add as different manufacturers vary . I believe the one I used in the past needed an equal quantity of water to rice .
It can range on the size of the lemon and the time of year . A medium lemon will give 2-3 Tablespoons of juice , where a larger lemon can give 1/4 cup ( 4 Tablespoons ) . Just have to decide on much lemon flavor you want in your recipe as to which number you pick .
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
There really are a couple separate issues that come together here : What is collagen to gelatin conversion ? When collagen converts to gelatin , it is not melting ( which is the same type of molecule , just as ice and liquid water are the same thing ) . Instead , it is being hydrated which is a chemical conversion process , where water is actually being added into the overall structure of the protein molecule , converting it into a different protein molecule . This does not happen just because of temperature , but rather because a water molecule with the right level of energy to power the process ( that is , moving fast enough ) hits the collagen molecule at the exactly proper spot to interact with it and become part of the molecule . The new molecule is called gelatin . Why does a pressure cooker facilitate effectively higher temperatures than an oven ? Most foods contain a great deal of water . On of the fundamental properties of water is that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to convert it from liquid water just at the boiling point ( 100 C / 212 F at sea level pressure ) to vapor just at the same temperature . This is called the <URL> . When a food containing water is heated in air at normal pressure , even if the air temperature is much hotter than the boiling point of water , the surface of the food can not get hotter than the boiling point , because any additional energy goes into converting the water into steam , and drying the surface . Only once the surface is dry can browning and other processes that happen above 100 C begin . However , in the inside of the food , which is still wet , the temperature continues to never be able to exceed the boiling point . Very few foods are normally cooked to the point where the interiors are dry enough to get hotter than this . In a pressure cooker , the boiling point of water is higher once the pressure is achieved ( for brevity , I will not discuss why this is so ) . For example , at 15 bar ( typical of a pressure cooker , one additional atmosphere of pressure above normal sea level pressure ) , water will not boil until about 250 F / 121 C . This permits both the surface and the interior of the food to reach higher temperatures than at normal pressure . Some cooking processes are accelerated due to this difference . Why does collagen convert faster ? Collagen conversion to gelatin is a time/temperature dependent process . That is , the higher the temperature ( within reasonable limits , before it burns or decomposes otherwise ) , the faster the conversion . Collagen will convert to gelatin at 140 F , but it will take literally several days . At 170 - 180 F ( typical internal temperatures in sea level braising ) , it takes several hours . In a pressure cooker , this time can be reduced , because the internal temperature can go higher than it can at sea level temperature . The reason for this is that collagen to gelatin conversion is a stochastic process . What this means is that it is essentially random . As a gross over simplification , imagine that the collagen molecule is a giant molecule ( it is ) with a button on it . All of the water molecules are moving around randomly , bouncing off one another . The higher the temperature , the faster they move on average . That is , at a low temperature , most molecules are moving relatively slowly , but some are almost stopped , and a very few are very fast . At a higher temperature , they move faster on average , and a slightly larger number are moving relatively very fast . Now imagine that the button will not be pressed until a water molecule happens to hit it while going fast enough to hit the button hard enough . The higher the temperature , the less time it will take for this to happen on average , because more of the water molecules are moving fast . Take this process over many , many , many collagen molecules , and you have the time/temperature conversion curve : the hotter the temperature , the faster the conversion overall . Conclusion Collagen to gelatin conversion is faster in a pressure cooker because the internal temperature of the food gets higher than is possible at atmospheric pressure , and this higher temperature speeds the stochastic gelatinization process .
Hot water and detergent might be enough , but after serious mold growth , I 'd use a disinfectant . The easiest way to do this would be to disinfect your cooker with bleach , which is very effective at killing mold on non-porous surfaces . After thoroughly washing and rinsing your cooker , make a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part bleach and allow it to soak in your cooker for a few minutes , then dump it out and allow the cooker to air dry . <URL> ( note that the caveat here is that bleach is n't effective for porous surfaces . Anything that you 're cooking on should be an acceptable surface for using bleach on . )
It is also like Schrodinger 's Cat in the sense that hopefully whatever is inside is not still alive . But seriously : the main thing is time . You start with the recommendations from your manufacturer ( since all cookers vary somewhat in terms of pressure and therefore temperature ) and then keep good notes as to whether you prefer slightly more or less time . For example , I 've learned that with my cooker , if I 'm making pinto beans without soaking , for whole beans I like about 35 minutes , but if I 'm going to puree them , 40 is better .
You need to use Kali Jeera rice available in most Patel stores or big indian stores . We were also looking for this and avoiding Kali Jeera thinking it is some black rice whereas it is not . This is rice used in Nor Malabar chicken biriyanis . And no need to mention that ghee rice or biriyani prepared with Kali Jeera rice tastes way better than normal Basmati rice .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
To answer your question about pressure cooker vs pan cooking , the answer is ... it depends . You 're right about the pressure cooker speeding things up . And if your recipe is pretty basic , you probably wo n't notice much of a difference in flavor between your pressure cooker method and a slow pan cooking . But if there are a lot of spices and time for flavors to meld , maybe even different spices added over the cooking time , then the slow pan method is going to make a difference . While the pressure cooker will make things cook faster , it wo n't necessarily make the flavors extract dramatically quicker , so you may find that the flavor has n't really peaked in the shorter cooking time . Or if you expect wine , for instance , to permeate into the meat , it will do more of that over a longer cooking time , than the short , but more intense time that your food spends in a pressure cooker . An easy way to decide might be to think about if you have one of those recipes that is " better the next day " . That recipe is likely to benefit from the low slow pan cooking . In the end , your best bet is to make it twice , in a reasonably short space of time , and then decide for yourself . But there are some days when you just need to get the food on the table , and as you 've experienced , the pressure cooker is one of the greatest kitchen time savers I know .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
end question
start question
My beef roast is dry on top and soggy on the bottom , how to correct it ?
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
I suspect " warm " is meant to maintain temperature , rather than raise it . My crock pots are too ancient to have anything other than " high " and " low " , so I ca n't assert any real authority . However , if you reach 145F within the first hour at the highest setting , then keep it at " warm " , and test the temperature after about 30 minutes with an instant-read thermometer and it stays around 140-160F , you 'll probably be fine . Personally , I 'd test the temperature first by cooking water . If the temperature stays above 140F at low , the worst risk you 'll have is overcooking . Beans and vegetables like carrots and celery can overcook fairly easily in a crock pot , but higher collagen meats meant for stews tend to be fine when cooked for extended periods . Most crock pot recipes for stews and soups usually hold fine when at low for a full workday , although that 's presuming a somewhat 70s-era soup aesthetic , which is probable for a crockpot recipe . However , I would be inclined to attempt the recipe using the low setting rather than reducing it to warm , if you 're not going to test the temperature first . If it turns out to be overcooked , you can always puree the ingredients with a blender ... I also doubt that switching to " warm " would be dramatically less likely to overcook the food than " low " , unless it holds at a pretty stable 140F , and low ends up somewhere around 160F .
The <URL> clearly recommends not leaving cooking appliances unattended when no one is home : Based on 2006-2010 annual averages : Unattended cooking was by far the leading contributing factor in home cooking fires . [ ... ] Ranges accounted for the largest share ( 58 % ) of home cooking fire incidents . Ovens accounted for 16 % . At the time this <URL> was written , the Fire Administration said ( they have since updated the page ) : The leading cause of fires in the kitchen is unattended cooking . Stay in the kitchen when you are frying , grilling , or broiling food . If you leave the kitchen for even a short period of time , turn off the stove . If you are simmering , baking , roasting , or boiling food , check it regularly , remain in the home while food is cooking , and use a timer to remind you that you 're cooking . Stay alert ! To prevent cooking fires , you have to be alert . You wo n't be if you are sleepy , have been drinking alcohol , or have taken medicine that makes you drowsy .
I wonder where you have read it . Your link does n't help , maybe you linked the wrong question ? It talks about using a stainless pan with oil . If you are talking about true saute ( very quick movement of bite-sized pieces of food on a very hot pan ) , it is completely impossible without oil . If you are misusing the term to mean shallow frying , you can do it without oil in a coated pan , if you take care not to overheat to the point of damaging the coating . Stainless steel pans have to always be used with oil or other fats , else they will stick . The taste of food browned without fat ( in a coated pan ) will also be different from that of food browned in fat , because fat is needed for important flavor-producing reactions . It is up to you if you like the different taste or not . You can braise food in a broth , meaning that you put a small amount of broth in the pan , add the food and wait for it to cook through . This works with stainless steel pans too . But this is not comparable to either sauteeing or shallow frying . The temperature does not exceed 100 Celsius , which is way too low for Maillard and other flavor-developing reactions . So , if your recipe calls for sauteeing , browning , grilling or frying the food , you can not use this method as a substitute . In summary , you seem to have been misinformed . This is not possible , frying always requires oil , and browning without oil requires a PTFE coated pan ( or a fresh ceramic coated one - they tend to lose their antistick properties with time ) . Update You can sweat vegetables without oil , as mentioned in the corrected link . This is very different from both the true sauteeing you will find in textbooks and the quick browning usually meant in recipes which call to start with sauteing the ingredients . The result are softened vegetable pieces suitable for e.g. stir frying or mixing into chunky sauces . If you are going to make a soup or stew , do n't bother using it instead of browning , as it does n't add flavor and a soup does n't mind the vegetables weeping into it . For other applications , you can try it and decide if the taste is good enough for your purposes . The process is simple . Cut your vegetables finely ( in the 4-7 mm range ) . Pour 3-5 mm of water into the pan and add a level layer of vegetables , up to 1.5 cm thick . Turn on the stove on slow to medium heat and leave them largely undisturbed . Wait until they are done - they will have softened and lost some moisture . As you are not using oil , you have to watch the food closely , because if all the liquid evaporates , the food will heat enough to stick and scorch . But do n't stir much , because the vegetables need time in contact with the pan/broth to heat through , not to get a new side exposed to the heat each second . You could do it with constant stirring , this is the risotto method , but you will end up with preparation times similar to risotto ( > 40 min ) while waiting for the vegetables to heat through despite the stir . So it takes a little experience to know when the bottom of the vegetables is done but the liquid is not yet evaporated , without stirring to take a look at what is happening on the bottom . In the end , it is up to you to decide if you really want to bother . You get a higher probability of failure ( risk of scorching it ) , higher effort ( the need to watch it closely ) and less taste . If you feel that the fat reduction makes up for it , do it .
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
Another option is to make your popcorn in a pot using butter as the oil for the bottom . I find that if you toast the unpopped popcorn kernels in the butter , it gives a bit of a butter flavor to the entire pot -- less than if you were to put butter on the top , but plenty for me .
The rate of slime of a piece of food has to do with amount of surface area it has . At each point a food 's surface is an entry point for bacteria . Since there is always bacteria on any cutting utensil or machine every cut piece of meat has been seeded with a bacteria culture . Although it might not kill you or make you visibly sick , the slime is coming from microbes which will stress your immune system that might be fighting other things instead . Unless it 's Nato beans or oysters slime on food is no good . If the cold cuts are sliming quickly it might be because the grocer is not cleaning the machine properly or somebody 's refrigeration is not cold enough , 5 to 10 degree f too warm .
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
This is called the " roe " . More on wikipedia : <URL> Red roe is that of a female , and white , that of a male . It 's optional if you want to eat it , personally it do n't like the taste . More on ( ahem ) <URL>
A cappuccino is probably not what you want to try latte art on . The amount of froth in a cap will probably cause the milk to be too thick to pour with . You want to start with your milk texture . You want stretch the milk and texture it so that it is suitable for a latte or maybe even a flat white . Correct micro foam will be integrated with the milk . It wo n't float on top . The surface will appear shiny and it will have the consistency of cream . For a free pour this is really important . Crema can also be your enemy . If your beans are too fresh , it can be a bit difficult to cut through . You can swirl your cup . You can also break it up a bit with your milk since you wo n't start pouring immediately . Once you can get your milk texture right , a good way to start is with some basic shapes . It can be useful to have a jug with a pronounced spout . 1 ) A basic dot in the middle of your cup . As you get to the top of your cup , tilt your jug a bit more to let the foam push the crema out of the way . 2 ) Basic heart . Same as the dot . But instead of just stopping the pour , push through the dot and slow the pour down quickly at the same time . 3 ) Layered dot . Starts like your basic dot . But as you increase the pour rate , wiggle your jug left and right smoothly . This will pull coffee in between the layers of the milk . Then just stop pouring . 4 ) Layered heart . Same as the layered dot , but pull through the dot like the basic heart . 5 ) The Rosetta . This is probably the iconic latte art pattern . This uses the skills of your layered heart . But you start your pour from the back of the cup with relatively large wiggles , then start to pull back and make your wiggles smaller . This gives you the curls at one end of the cup and the tapering " leaves " at the other . To finish , pull through like a heart . Other patterns are then variations on these themes . Like the tulip , swan , multiple hearts , multiple rosettas . And some combine free pouring with a bit of etching eg . smoking dog , pac man . Edit : This is how I learned to froth milk for a standard jug . The jug should be at an angle so that you can form a whirlpool . The tip of your steam wand should be just under the surface of the milk . Then turn on the steam . So I stretch very quickly and then spend the rest of the time texturing . You should n't be moving your jug up or down very much if at all .
The texture is controlled simply by time ; 2 hours is n't enough . Try 3 to 4 hours . Or use a pressure cooker , it goes much faster in there - about 45 minutes should do it .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
It is coagulated albumin leaked from the flesh of the fish . Not terribly inviting , but not harmful either .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
Obviously hard to know for sure . The laws and guidelines dictate use of food grade equipment so if a piece falls off and ingested , it does little harm . If you cooked it , then you have even less to worry . As a precaution , I suggest taking it to the store and asking about it so other customers do n't trip on the same issue . Harmless or otherwise . If they do n't know for sure , then suggest to them to send in for a lab test . In descending likelihood , it could be : a piece of buna rubber broken off from a gasket ( grinding machine , or other ) . Not a hazard . It 's not far from chewing gum ;) a piece of meat that came in contact with the lubricant oil in the machine . Also usually food grade . They turn dark after a while . sometimes the meat branding ink on the outside ends up in the grind ( also food grade ) . Though they are usually dark blue . piece of old blood clot , liver or other organs . not likely here , but I have heard Listeria shows up black . Though i 'd imagine it would spread and look more fuzzy/furry . Most bacterium die during proper cooking .
Where do you live ? European Pyrex is made from borosilicate glass , the same as in laboratory 's equipment ; American Pyrex is made from common soda-lime glass . If you are in America , do n't bother trying it at all ; soda-lime glass is sensitive to thermal shock . Even though it 's tempered for kitchenware , it is nowhere near good enough for the burner . In Europe , you could take your chances if you have a bowl you do n't mind risking . However , there is still a significant chance that it will break on the burner some day . While I think that they use the same raw material for both kitchen dishes and laboratory test tubes ( which are obviously OK on a gas burner ) , kitchen stuff is much thicker . This makes it much more likely to break under thermal expansion . If you decide to make the experiment with a borosilicate Pyrex , take care to warm it gradually , starting with a small flame , and do n't pour cold ingredients into it . Proceed at your own risk . And ask yourself if you really have no pots better suited for the task .
The temp your meat reached was too high , and it forced the water out of the meat . Further info <URL> along with a handy chart of temps . My suggestion would be to turn that oven down to 200-230 degrees if you 've got ta cook for three hours , or start temping it earlier and get it out before it over cooks .
Agree with @Daniel that fillets can be done on the grill , but in my experience a tender fish like Tilapia will break up and fall through the grill . Unless you have a finely meshed grill and a lot of cooking experience I would avoid it . Tuna , swordfish , mahi-mahi and salmon steaks all work well on the grill . But this should not stop you from grilling Tilapia or any other tender fish , just put it on the grill whole ! For Tilapia I would do something like below . Make shallow slashes in the thickest parts of the flesh , coat with olive oil , season with your favorite spices , and then grill for 3 to 5 minutes max each side on a hot grill . You can mostly judge by sight . When it still looks like it needs another minute I always sacrifice my piece , take it off the grill , and pry off one of the thicker parts . If it 's still raw looking on the inside , let it and the others go for another 30 seconds on each side . Nothing better than perfectly cooked moist fish and nothing worse than dry overcooked fish and the difference between the two can be as little as 1 minute . Note : it might be obvious to many , but using a whole fish implies that you 've " cleaned " the fish first by removing it 's innards before any other preparation . If you really want to do fillets for a delicate fish on the grill then just coat them in oil , and wrap in tinfoil with a slice of lemon or whatever you prefer . Again , sacrifice a piece to check for doneness . Tinfoil will not magically keep the fish moist if you overcook it . Using foil you wo n't get the flavor of the grill , but then again picking all the broken pieces of each fillet off the hot coals is a bit too much grill flavor IMHO .
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
end question
start question
Is there a product available that is pre-gelatinized starch and what product name is it sold with ?
To expand on what others above have said , Ultratex is tapioca starch , specifically tapioca maltodextrin . I imagine maltodextrin must be available in Australia . Occasionally health food stores sell it . If you go to khymos.org and search for the downloadable PDF ' Textures : A hydrocolloid recipe collection , ' you will find within a whole bunch of different thickening products ( both trade names and chemical names ) . Alternatively , simonjohnson.com.au carries the Texturas line of products from Albert and Ferran Adria , which includes a variety of thickening and gelling agents .
Knives are very hard-worked tools in the kitchen , and need to be easy to clean and maintain . At all quality levels , unless resin impregnated or otherwise treated , wood does not stand up well to harsh treatment , such as frequent trips through the dishwasher . Even if washed by hand , you want to wash it and then dry it , so the water does n't soak in and lead over time to cracking and warping , plus a rough , unpleasant feel in the hand as the fibers expand and separate . As to sanitation , wooden handles are much akin to cutting boards . If treated properly , it is not an issue . You can even , occassionaly , use a mild bleach solution ( followed by rinsing and drying ) to sanitize them . If treated with reasonable care , by handwashing and immediate drying , wooden handles will perform very well , and of course they are very attractive . Still , on balance , wooden handles require more care than some of the resin , plastic , or metal handles . Choosing among the options is about balancing the feel and beauty and maintenance to your needs and desires . For me , personally , I choose the resin handles as they are very durable and low maintenance .
When making the slurry , stir cornstarch into cold water until it has the consistency of cream . This can be set aside until it 's needed , but be sure to stir it briefly before you pour it into the sauce to redistribute the starch granules in the water . You should pour it into your sauce toward the end of its preparation . According to McGee you should use roughly 2/3 as much starch as you would flour . If you are n't using a recipe , add your slurry a bit at time until it 's a thick as you like it . Also remember that the sauce will thicken a bit as it cools , so it should be a little bit thinner on the stove than you intend to serve it .
I 'd presume they just mean dish soap and not some more powerful cleanser . With regard to additives , etc. . I guess whatever you are okay with normally should be okay . Obviously you have to rinse the trays thoroughly to get the soap off . I 've had a few dehydrators and there is nothing special about the plastic trays . I doubt they are dishwasher safe but I 've never put that to the test ( I suspect it would not work that well anyway ) . The trays can be pesky to clean if you 've used a marinade . The best thing I 've found for this is a small , soft circular brush .
I had to consult my copy of Bread Baker 's Apprentice by Peter Reinhart to be sure , but here is a quote : There are two types of firm , or dry , pre-ferments and two types of wet pre-ferments . The firm pre-ferments are known as pâte fermentée and biga . The wet pre-ferments are called poolish and levain levure . ... Biga , an italian style of firm pre-ferment , differs from pâte fermentée in that it does n't have any salt in it . Also , rather than cutting off a piece of finished bread dough to hold back as an improver , a biga is made specifically to be used as a pre-ferment . So , it seems the main difference lies in the hydration of the dough , where a poolish is made with a ratio of equal water and flour . There also seems to be a few other differences . A biga apparently uses .5 percent yeast to flour , while a poolish uses .25 percent . Mr Reinhart does not say anything about a concrete difference in final result between these methods - just that a ' wet ' pre-ferment is faster . Faster in the sense that in the same time-frame a poolish will develop more flavor and character than a dry pre-ferment . Sadly I 've personally only used a wet pre-ferment , since it is easier to handle . Just whisk it prior to bed time with a wire whisk and mix in the rest of the ingredients the next day . Having a full blown dough makes it more difficult to incorporate the rest of the ingredients .
It 's a regional preference on what they 're called . When you 're buying seeds , they 're also called " bunching onions " , and I grew up calling them " scallions " , although I think that scallion specifically do n't have a bulb yet formed , while green/spring onions might . update : A little research suggests that " spring onion " is the preferred term in the UK , AU and Canada , " green onion " in the US south , and " scallion " in the US northeast , however I 'm not sure what the exact boundries are as in the US mid-atlantic , I 'll see both " green onions " and " scallions " for sale , with " green onions " being larger ( scallions with no bulb , maybe 12 " / 30cm long , while green onions might have a 2 " / 5cm bulb , and have over 24 " / 60cm of green top ) . It 's possible that " green onion " might be a polysemous term that varies by region .
Your common ' non-solid ' high-protein items are : peanut butter , or other nut butters eggs yogurt cheese ( cream cheese or served melted ) tofu Depending on how strict you 're being with the fat intake , you can go even further ... low fat or non-fat yogurts and cheese ( eg . neufchâtel instead of cream cheese ) ; whites only for the eggs , etc. . Be warned that if you try to go too low-fat during this time , your body might actually crave more feed , making the problem worse . If it 's not a problem with your body being unable to process fats , you might want to reduce protein but increase fats during this time . The good news is that unless you 're a body builder , having a lower protein diet for a week or two while things heal wo n't cause your body to start eating itself -- in fact , most American diets have more protein in it than our bodies need -- about 3-5oz of meat per day ( not per meal ) is enough ; exact amount depends on your size and build . As you can get away with soft foods , and not just non-solid : Scrambled eggs ( leave out a few yolks if you 're really sensitive to the fat ) . Pulled pork , roja vieja , pot roast cooked ' ragout ' , or similar ( you might need to also chop it up if the bits of meat are long ) . Pasta with an egg sauce ( like carbonara , but might have to avoid the black pepper and/or crispy meat ... might be able to use a soft ham and/or add extra salt or worcestershire ) or a cheese sauce ( eg , macaroni and cheese , alfredo ) Tuna fish ( canned in water ; can either make into a tuna salad ( avoid celery . Use a grater to extract onion juice for flavor without solid bits of onion . Pickle brine can help brighten it up while being non-solid ) Refried beans ( make your own , and you can cut down the fat significantly ) Many soups . ( either make a strong stock , cook the meat 'til it 's soft , or put it through a blender ... or egg drop soup ) Cheesecake ( use neufchâtel cheese , or find a recipe that uses soft tofu ) Flan , custards , or ice cream ( made with a custard base , but low-fat milk ) You can also work some extra protein into other dishes ... thin your mashed potatoes with ( pre-heated ) stock a bit more than you typically would , then while still hot , blend in a egg or two . Or add neufchâtel cheese instead of milk or butter ( add stock if you still need to thin it further for your tastes )
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
Peanut butters that are not " all natural " include cheaper oils along with sugar and emulsifiers to keep the mixture from separating and to make it lighter and smoother . That lack of emulsifiers could make a huge difference but it depends a lot on the recipe . In a normal cookie dough fat is creamed with sugar and eggs are beaten in one at a time which adds a ton of emulsification power from the lecithin in the yolks . Additionally - the fat will bind with the flour and be baked into the cookies . Like Jefromi - I have not had any problem with the fat from natural peanut butter separating out after baking . If you made a cookie dough and either left out the yolks or did n't beat it well enough to properly emulsify - and then let the batter sit out for a while before baking I would fully expect the peanut oil to separate .
The packs typically contain the equivalent of 15mL of gelatine and are in powder form . Each pack is measured to set 500mL or two cups of liquid . As far as weight , it feels like about 6-7 grams of gelatin . The dominant brand seems to be <URL> . As for the bloom , I 'm not really sure as I have n't seen it published on the label . However , I have actually made marshmallow using the same Alton Brown recipe and it seemed pretty tolerant . So slightly different bloom should be fine . I also deviated with the corn syrup and did n't use it ( I avoid corn ) . The end result was still awesome .
You should refer to the discussion here : <URL> Some relevant points : MSG is found naturally in seaweed and other things . It is used to enhance the flavors it is combined with . It is completely harmless unless you are limiting your sodium intake . Check out the wikipedia article on the subject as a starting point : <URL> In short there has been no linkage to any adverse effects found in many controlled studies . As far as replacing it - You can leave it out altogether or add a little salt .
Not authentic but a rice pudding cooked in coconut milk ( cardamom opt ) and chilled in individual portions is lovely with fresh fruit at the table . I had it served with passionfruit - lovely . Keep portions dainty after a full curry meal !
You want the ones that look like little tiny T-bone steaks . Typically they are called Lamb Chops , but look first as there are different cuts under that name . You might also consider doing a rack , which is the equivalent to a Rib Roast , but obviously much smaller . For the rack , I 'd sear it in a pan , and then broil it until done . ( 15-25 minutes , 140-160 degrees ) .
No , as you can keep them separately for a long time , The point is , no chemical reaction accur because they do n't have right particles for a chemical reaction , it 's just a mixture and no new substances is made . I think they are still healthy like that . Also , accroding to a very nice article about keeping oil and vinager ( <URL> ) , despite they can be stored for a long period of time , depends on the place and container you keep them in : Olive oil and vinegar have four deadly enemies . They are : 1 . Age 2 . Heat 3 . Light 4 . Air One of the above or a combination of any of these four can damage olive oil and vinegar beyond measure . So in a dark and cool place and not a plastic container , they can be stored for 15 months .
There is n't a standardised shape as such , but the rugby ball shape is common . To achieve this shape , all you have to do is cook your omelette ( French style uses a super-hot pan and lots of butter ) , then roll three quarters of it up in the pan . Then nudge the omelette up the side of the pan a little , so that it partly protrudes over the edge , which will then allow you to flip the remaining quarter back over onto the rest of the omelette . You should now have a rugby ball shape with a ' seam ' , i.e. the edge of the omelette - simply turn this out so the ' seam ' is on the plate and you have a nice smooth omelette showing on top .
A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100 ° F ( 4-38 ° C ) ( i.e. room temperature ) . It 's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature . In fact , you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour . However , defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time . I 'm not so good at this , which leads to a safe and fast solution : Defrost meat in a waterproof ziploc bag in cold water . Change the water every 30 minutes until defrosted . The water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the defrosting is quite fast and the water is cold so there 's minimal safety risk . From the <URL> : Uh , oh ! You 're home and forgot to defrost something for dinner . You grab a package of meat or chicken and use hot water to thaw it fast . But is this safe ? What if you remembered to take food out of the freezer , but forgot and left the package on the counter all day while you were at work ? Neither of these situations are safe , and these methods of thawing lead to foodborne illness . Food must be kept at a safe temperature during " the big thaw . " Foods are safe indefinitely while frozen . However , as soon as food begins to defrost and become warmer than 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) , any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to multiply . Foods should never be thawed or even stored on the counter , or defrosted in hot water . Food left above 40 ° F ( unrefrigerated ) is not at a safe temperature . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food is in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F ( 4 ° C and 60 ° C ) -- at temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When defrosting frozen foods , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw food in the refrigerator where food will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . There are three safe ways to defrost food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . Refrigerator Thawing Planning ahead is the key to this method because of the lengthy time involved . A large frozen item like a turkey requires at least a day ( 24 hours ) for every 5 pounds of weight . Even small amounts of frozen food -- such as a pound of ground meat or boneless chicken breasts -- require a full day to thaw . When thawing foods in the refrigerator , there are several variables to take into account . Some areas of an appliance may keep the food colder than other areas . Food placed in the coldest part will require longer defrosting time . Food takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator set at 35 ° F ( 2 ° C ) than one set at 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) . After thawing in the refrigerator , ground meat and poultry should remain useable for an additional day or two before cooking ; red meat , 3 to 5 days . Foods defrosted in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking , although there may be some loss of quality . Cold Water Thawing This method is faster than refrigerator thawing but requires more attention . The food must be in a leak-proof package or plastic bag . If the bag leaks , bacteria from the air or surrounding environment could be introduced into the food . Also , meat tissue can also absorb water like a sponge , resulting in a watery product . The bag should be submerged in cold tap water , changing the water every 30 minutes so it continues to thaw . Small packages of meat or poultry -- about a pound -- may defrost in an hour or less . A 3 - to 4-pound package may take 2 to 3 hours . For whole turkeys , estimate about 30 minutes per pound . If thawed completely , the food must be cooked immediately . Foods thawed by the cold water method should be cooked before refreezing .
To expand on what others above have said , Ultratex is tapioca starch , specifically tapioca maltodextrin . I imagine maltodextrin must be available in Australia . Occasionally health food stores sell it . If you go to khymos.org and search for the downloadable PDF ' Textures : A hydrocolloid recipe collection , ' you will find within a whole bunch of different thickening products ( both trade names and chemical names ) . Alternatively , simonjohnson.com.au carries the Texturas line of products from Albert and Ferran Adria , which includes a variety of thickening and gelling agents .
how do they make sure the end product has the same look and taste as always ? This is the realm of quality control . It involves such activities as : developing processes that are as consistent as possible measuring the product against a standard identifying and eliminating sources of variation It 's easier to control a single large-scale process in a factory than small processes duplicated at many locations , so as much as possible they 'll deliver pre-mixed , pre-measured ingredients to retail locations . Equipment will be standardized and automated at each location . A recipe then becomes very hard to screw up , something like : Add one sack of standard donut mix , one container of eggs , and one bucket of water to the mixer . Press the " Mix-2 " button . When the mixer stops , transfer dough to sheeter/former and press the green button ... Disclaimer : I 've never worked in a franchise donut shop , and actual recipes may be more or less complicated than the made-up one above . But that 's the general idea , and it 's deployed widely in manufacturing whether or not the product is food . You can do some of the same things at home if you want to simplify a recipe that you make frequently . The easiest way to get started is to measure ingredients by weight ( if you do n't already ) . It 's a lot faster and easier to make , say , a bread recipe if you can skip the measuring cups and just pour flour into the mixing bowl until you reach the target weight . Repeat with water , yeast , salt , etc. . You do n't dirty any measuring cups , you 'll get more consistent results , and you 'll save time . Another step in that direction is to pre-mix whatever ingredients you can , so that you can make a big batch of mix once in a while and then measure out just one thing instead of four or five each time you make the recipe . Pre-mixing can reduce the shelf life of the ingredients , though , so it 's not always idea . If you ca n't pre-mix , then you can at least pre-measure ingredients , or use measuring tools that are suited to the quantities that you need . For example , if you make bread daily using 24oz . of flour , you might get a 12oz . scoop and pre-measure the salt and instant yeast into small containers . Then your recipe is something like : Add two scoops of flour , a container of salt , a container of yeast , and a pint of water to the mixer ... Of course , one of the nice things about home cooking is that it 's not exactly the same every time . Who wants to eat the same thing every day ?
Not too surprisingly given where you found it , it 's called an <URL> in most parts of the world . In Israel , it 's just called a chopped salad or ( according to the wiki article - I never personally encountered this ) an Arab salad .
There is probably still some risk , so I would n't assume it was safe ; however , ice-cream is frozen , so I would n't worry about ice-cream at all , unless the egg-mixture was left at room temperature for a significant time before freezing . As far as I know , salmonella is in the faeces of the chicken , if present . Some faeces will often stick to the shell . In very rare circumstances , which I believe are negligible , the salmonella penetrates the shell and infects not only the white ( less of a problem ) but also the nutritious yolk , and then the whole egg is contaminated . But this chance is probably too small to encounter in one 's average life time . What has normally happened if the faeces are contaminated and people get sick , is that some of the salmonella present on the outside of the shell contaminates the egg when the shell is broken , or the extremely small number of bacteria present in the white get a chance to infect the whole egg ( chance ca. 0.005 % , see below ) . ( Note that in many countries the outside of the shell of supermarket eggs is supposedly sterilized . ) At that very moment , however , the number of bacteria present in the egg white should still not be enough to make people sick . But if the egg is then left to sit outside the refrigerator for several hours , and enough faeces touched the egg white , the bacteria may have enough time to multiply and make you sick . If the egg is properly refrigerated , chances are much lower , but I do not know the exact numbers . One often sees grey spots and smears on the outside of eggs ; I believe this is normally chicken faeces . Even so , salmonella is quite rare , such that the healthy should n't be worried about making ice cream , mousse au chocolat , and such from unpasteurized eggs . But if a young child , an old person , a pregnant woman , or someone with health problems were to eat the ice cream , I would not take the chance and use pasteurized eggs . If the food is contaminated , the fact that people do not get sick who have eaten it immediately upon making it offers little evidence , because the bacteria have n't had the time to multiply yet . I believe you will normally not get sick from eating contaminated steak tartare , for example , because it is eaten immediately . However that may be , ice-cream is frozen : as Derobert said below , salmonella probably <URL> , and certainly not below 0 ° C , so ice-cream should be safe under all normal circumstances , that is , if it was frozen shortly after breaking the eggs . Normal temperatures in refrigerators slow down the growth of the bacteria as well : perhaps you should n't worry too much about anything that is kept at 7 ° C anyway for a few days . The inside of an egg was once considered almost sterile . But , over recent years , the bacterium Salmonella enteritidis ( Se ) has been found inside a small number of eggs . Scientists estimate that , on average across the U.S. , only 1 of every 20,000 eggs might contain the bacteria . So , the likelihood that an egg might contain Se is extremely small -- 0.005 % ( five one-thousandths of one percent ) . At this rate , if you 're an average consumer , you might encounter a contaminated egg once every 84 years . -- <URL> , <URL>
end question
start question
Why is putting an egg in the microwave not recommended ?
This probably refers to whole eggs mostly ... A microwave can boil water very rapidly , and a tight but fragile container like a whole egg will violently rupture if such rapid boiling happens inside it , because the overpressure inside it is already significant when the shell finally breaks . Here is a <URL> showing an experiment with ca. 180 eggs in a microwave oven , which after a minute or two rupture simultaneously and with enough force to blow the oven open , with debris being propelled several meters .
The usual reason given is that Aluminum will react with the alkalis in dishwasher detergent and discolour . <URL>
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
It should be fine to use . It is probably dusty , perhaps greasy from other kitchen sources . If it 's self cleaning , go for it ( and avoid using any harsh cleaners ) It might get smoky at first , so you should have ventilation possible ( window , fan , or whatever ) If not self cleaning , give it a good wiping-out with an ammonia based cleaner or use commercial oven cleaner ( nasty stuff ) . If its possible that you have mice , you should probably make sure that they are n't nesting in the cabinet - get a technician if you are n't comfortable removing panels , etc. . And buy an oven thermometer to check the oven thermostat . Self-cleaning or not , it will probably be smoky at first . Good luck .
Gluten is what makes doughs chewy , and gluten is associated with high protein flour , so you should try and get low protein ( " soft " ) flour . Also , the colder your fat ( i.e. , butter ) the flakier and crispier your crust will be . You also may want to substitute some of the butter for lard or shortening ; the lack of water in the lard will also help the crust become crispy and avoid gluten formation associated with hydration of the flour . Note that you can not substitute lard/shortening for butter in an equal ratio ; you should try and find a recipe that specifically calls for it to get the ratio correct . As <URL> noted , you can also blind bake the crust to start its cooking process ( but as <URL> warns , you may not be able to call it a " pie " after that ! ) . Finally , it may be the case that your pie filling is too moist and therefore makes the interior of the crust very soggy . I 've found that almost all good apple pie recipes call for pre-cooking the apples to remove a lot of their moisture before putting them in the crust .
More or less , yes . Just know that eggs of different species have different " flavors . " There may be some issues with substituting in dishes due to varying fat content of the yolks and such ... I 've had duck and goose egg quiches . I 've had fried quail eggs on toast . I have yet to try an ostrich or emu egg .
The Maggi noodles you link to are just average ramen noodles , so can be cooked in the microwave quite easily . Boil a kettle of water Place the noodles in a microwavable bowl . You may need to break the noodles into pieces , but if you 're careful with the boiling water you can sometimes soften the noodles in the middle enough to fold the block to make it all fit without breaking Pour the flavour sachet ( and any other curry powder/herbs ) onto the dry noodles Pour the boiling water onto the noodles , enough to cover the noodles , and if desired , a bit more for a bit of a soup Put into the microwave , you can cover with a loose lid if desired , and microwave for around 2 minutes Stir the noodles , separating any stuck-together blocks of noodles Put back into the microwave for another 2-3 minutes ( depending on your microwave 's power ) I usually cook these kind in the microwave , since if I 'm eating them I 'm not usually in the mood for a proper cooking session . They do ( depending on the kind of noodle ) sometimes turn out slightly different when done in the microwave , as compared to boiling on hob , but both are nice as a snack .
<URL> 160 ° F ( 71 ° C ) for dishes containing eggs . If you 're scrambling eggs or making an omelette , as long as they 're coagulated/solidified , they 'll be safe . The easiest way to confirm this is with sous vide eggs . For example , this <URL> has 155 ° F , 160 ° F , and 165 ° F eggs : <URL> <URL> <URL> which clearly show that the white wo n't be totally solidified until 160 ° F or even 165 ° F , even when cooked for an extended period of time . ( To be clear , those lower-temperature eggs are actually safe if cooked for sufficient time . The point here is just to show coagulation versus temperature , to demonstrate that when eggs cooking in a pan , you can use the solidity as a temperature indicator . )
Expensive knives can survive a trip through the dishwasher , but like others have mentioned , they can bump into things , end up with coatings of detergents and such , suffer damage to wood , etc. . Why would you do that to an investment ? Cheaper knives will just straight out rust/corrode , even if you remove them and dry them right after the cycle . Yeah , you can scrub it off , but you 're also losing metal from the blade , possibly starting rust in areas you ca n't dry , and generally degrading the knives .
For a 30 min marinade , no , you do n't have to put it in the fridge . In fact , many recipes will call for removing thick beef cuts from the fridge 20-60 min before cooking , to let the meat come up to room temperature . That being said , there has been some <URL> , and the general concensus is that cooking a cold steak gives better results . <URL> , although it required freezing to ensure you did n't develop surface ice crystals , and cooking in more oil than typical .
Curing salts contain sodium nitrite or sodium nitrate . When these curative agents are combined with the amines in meat and exposed to high heat they form carcinogenic compounds called <URL> . As the linked article states , commercial producers often add Vit . C to counteract some of the nitrosamine formation , but the curing mix you have might not include it for economic reasons .
Fried Eggs : Sunny Side Up -- Not flipped , unbroken yolk . The top of the egg is just barely set . Basted -- Sunny Side Up , hot fat spooned over until the white surrounding the yolk is opaque . Over Easy / lite -- Flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk runny . Over medium -- flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk creamy ( not completely runny ) . Over Medium Well -- Flipped , unbroken yolk , yolk cooked to have a firm but wet-appearing center . Over Hard -- Flipped , broken , fully-cooked yolk . Over Well -- Flipped , intact , fully-cooked yolk . Broken / Lightly Scrambled -- Broken in pan and gently stirred while cooking - yolk and whites should not be mixed entirely . Scrambled Eggs -- Made in many different ways . Generally the eggs are mixed in a bowl before being put into the pan , and often stirred while cooking . Some recipes add fat to the eggs in the form of milk , cream , butter , or oil . A distinction can be made between Wet/Loose or Dry , which refers to the degree of doneness . Omelettes : Filled Omelette -- Eggs mixed before cooking , possibly with added fat as in Scrambled Eggs . Cooked in fat in a saute pan ; when set but the interior still wet , previously-cooked fillings ( cheese , onions , mushrooms , peppers , tomatoes ... ) are added , and the eggs folded over into a half-moon shape . Spanish Omelette / Western Omelette -- Same as filled , but the egg mixture is poured over the fillings in a hot pan and cooked , thus incorporating the fillings into the egg . Fluffy Omelette -- Whites and yolks beaten separately . Yolks are gently folded into the whites without breaking the structure of the whites . Optional toppings are added . Cooked slowly in a pan , or baked ( an electric frying pan with a lid works well for this preparation ) . Boiled : Cooked in shell in water for a timed period . Some people will refer to degree of doneness by cooking time , i.e. , a " 3-minute egg " is soft-boiled with some runny white around the yolk . Some recipes call for eggs to be added to boiling water , others to be started in cold water . In the cold-water start , the pot may be left on the heat or removed when the water reaches a boil . The eggs may be shocked in ice water when removed . Soft -- Yolk runny , potentially with slight unset white around the yolk . Medium -- White completely set , yolk firm but with a dark , wet appearance . Hard -- Yolk completely set and pale yellow . Poached : Egg cooked , out of shell , in water , stock , or other liquid -- excluding fats or oils -- at a temperature in the range of 160-180 ˚F ( 70-82 ˚C ) . There are possible degrees of doneness , however the typical poached egg has a runny but warm and thickened yolk and fully-set white . Coddled : An egg that has been very lightly cooked ( poached eggs are sometimes considered coddled ) . This can either be accomplished with an egg coddler or cooking an egg in its shell with water that is slightly below boiling point . Shirred : An egg cooked in an oven at the low-mid 300 's ˚F ( ~ 160 ˚C ) , contained in a ramekin , until the whites are just set and the yolk is runny but thickened . Often butter or another fat is placed on top before cooking . Steamed : Very similar to shirred eggs , but the ramekin is covered with some aluminum foil and put in a steamer for 7-15 minutes . In a basket : Eggs fried in a hole made in a slice of bread
According to KitchenAid 's food processor users ' manual : Never process any food that is so hard or firmly frozen that it can not be pierced with the tip of a sharp knife . Hard food can cause damage to the blade or motor . If a piece of hard food , such as carrot , becomes wedged or stuck on the blade , stop the processor and remove the blade . Carefully remove food from the blade . <URL> That being said , I 've also used my food processor for frozen fruit , hard nuts , etc. . My blades have never worn out in 18 years of use ( though the bowl has been replaced once due to cracking ) .
A latte is similar to a cappuccino but with different proportions . It 's unsurprising that a similar method and equipment would be used . Cappuccino needs steamed milk to get the froth , so a coffee bar machine has a steam pipe . To boil the milk for a latte would require an extra piece of equipment and the associated space . Is perfectly possible to make an espresso-based drink with milk heated on the stove or in a microwave , that would be a close approximation to a latte -- possibly indistinguishable . But if you boil the milk , it will change the flavour .
When making espresso with a machine , normally the ideal temp is around 200F . So I would most definitely not use cooler water . 175F is very hot for steaming milk -- for me that would be way over-steamed and scalded . Most of the resources I 've found say to steam to 150-160F . I 've actually found that even when the thermometer says 150F , it 's over-cooked for my tastes . What I do now is go by feel . I steam in a stainless pitcher and keep my fingertips on the sides . When it 's too hot for me to hold for more than a second or so , I stop .
Well there 's a few things . First , higher temperatures mean more volatile aroma and flavour compounds will be released , leaving a flatter-tasting stock . Second , boiling means more motion within the liquid , which makes it harder to skim off the protein scum which forms on the surface while a stock is cooking . In addition , some of the scum will just become reincorporated into the stock via a process similar to emulsion . Third , boiling induces faster breakdown of proteins and other particulate matter , leaving you with a cloudier end product . This is of course of very little concern for stocks which will end up incorporated into ( opaque ) soups or sauces . Of the three , only the first is of any real concern to home cooks . The other two issues are n't a huge deal at the restaurant level ( modulo need for clarity in consomme etc ) , particularly if the restaurant uses Superbags or algae filtration for clarifying stocks .
Most of the <URL> . So unopened , you should have no problem storing at room temp . Once you open the bottle , microorganism 's can get in . With a sugary liquid like Apple juice , wild yeasts will find a happy home , and ferment up a bubbly alcoholic apple beverage for you . This can take a week or two to happen , and the result is usually tasty rather than deadly . Sometimes you 'll end up with vinegar rather than an alcoholic ferment . There 's some small chance of picking up a nasty microbe in your apple juice over a three day period , but it was never enough to stop people from drinking unrefrigerated cider in the days before Pasteurization or refrigeration .
It 's a simple matter of viscosity , when eggs are cold the white is less runny . When eggs are warm the white is much more runny . As for whether it is easier to separate eggs when cold or warm it depends on your method . If you use the shells to separate the white , by cracking them in half and then transferring the yolk back and forth between the halves , then I 'd say cold is a bit better because once the white starts to drip out it tends to go as a whole . With warm eggs more white will stay in the shell with the yolk . However , if you use your hands to separate the eggs , by letting the white drip between your fingers ( or using an egg separator which does the same thing ) , warm eggs work much better because the runniness allows them to flow easier . This method works fine for cold eggs too , but warm is faster . Of the two methods I prefer using my hands rather than the shell for a few reasons : Less broken yolks : It 's easier to break a yolk when using shells It 's faster : especially if your eggs are room temperature you can separate eggs twice as fast this way You can whip the whites right away : Most of the time the reason you are separating the egg whites is to whip them into peaks , and warm whites whip better than cold whites . If your eggs are warm already then you can whip them right away , if they are cold you have to wait for them to warm up A handy trick if you are separating a lot of eggs is to separate each white into a separate bowl , then putting the white into a larger bowl with the rest of them . This is so if you get a bad egg , or a yolk breaks into the white you can discard the egg and keep the rest of them .
Long story short : It 's the acid , and any acid will do . Food colourings are a type of dye known as an <URL> . Their effectiveness relies on hydrogen bonding which only works in an acidic environment . It 's not that the vinegar does anything special - not exactly . Rather , adding a few drops of food colouring to a large amount of water would give you something that 's not acidic at all , which will diminish or totally eliminate its effectiveness as a dye . Including vinegar in the mix simply allows you to stretch your rations , so to speak - to dilute the colouring in a whole lot of liquid without making it useless as a dye in the process . Basically , you 're creating a <URL> , which is a well-known term in the textile world , as it 's used to dye wool and other fabrics . Warm temperatures ( 140-180 ° F ) also aid in dye absorption , and apparently - although I 'm no expert in textiles - a small amount of Urea also helps . You could definitely use cream of tartar , citric acid or any other acid , but the recipes using vinegar are generally aiming for a specific pH , so you 'll want to adjust quantities of any other acidifier to match . Presumably , vinegar is just the cheapest and most widely available acidifier .
Searing on a grill to " seal in juices " has largely been disproven . Meat loses juice at roughly the same speed regardless of searing the meat first . Searing does produce the Maillard reaction and caramelization which enhances flavor ; however , searing first does n't produce better results . A test performed by Alton Brown in 2008 demonstrated that searing at the end of the cooking process loses less water than searing at the beginning . For more information see <URL> . For the Alton Brown results see <URL> ( video ) .
end question
start question
How to salt and roast pistachios ?
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
It is true , in my experience . However , if your recipe does not require salt , you should not be adding it , of course . Removing moisture from onion with the aid of salt helps it reach its desired state ( brown or translucent , as desired ) faster . I am most familiar with the use of onion in Indian cooking . I generally add a pinch or two of salt to onion when I start sauteing it . Onion starts sweating as soon as you add salt and start stirring . The reason that salt draws out moisture from onion is osmotic pressure . The surface of the onion acts as a semipermeable membrane barrier . Since the solution outside the onion is more concentrated with respect to salt , water moves out of the onion to the general liquid side , to balance the osmotic pressure on either side of the onion surface .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
No , salting or spraying alcohol on your vegetables will not help keep them fresh at all , in fact salting them would probably have the opposite effect . You are probably connecting the fact that salt is used as a preservative with keeping food fresh , but these are 2 different concepts . Keeping things fresh involves trying to keep a plant metabolizing as long as possible as @rumtscho says , while preserving food is about slowing the growth of bacteria and other microbial life which rots food and can make it harmful to life so it can be safe a long time . This can be done through a combination of any or all of the below : Exposure to cold : refrigeration and freezing Sterilization : this usually means heating food for a certain length of time and storing it in a sealed container like a can , jar , or carton Preservatives : preservatives create an environment that is hostile to bacteria and other microbes , these can be natural ( salt , vinegar , citric acid ) , or artificial ( sulfites , benzoic acid ) . Note that alcohol is not listed among them - you 'd need to use alcohol in such concentrations as it could be dangerous in a kitchen ( think explosions and fire so do n't do it ! ) Often food preservation is a combination of the above , like a preservative and sterilization . In any case preserving food means making changes to the texture and often flavor of the food , so in no case would it ever be considered fresh . So save your salt and your alcohol , they wo n't help you there .
I think the cost effective-ness and worth it portion of the question is quite subjective since there is n't a way to directly compare salt with cookware grade salt block . These salt blocks are considered unusable when it becomes cracked and fall apart , not when all the salt has been used up . Thus the price is for the novelty of using these blocks to cook food rather than the actual salt content . And whether the flavor is worth it is complete up to you to decide . Due the obscurity of Himalayan salt blocks , I will provide a little background information for those who are n't familiar . Due to the Himalayan salt blocks ' unique lattice formation , it has very low moisture and porosity . Due to this property it can be heated up to extremely high temperatures ( up to 900 degree Fahrenheit ) . Also because of the lack of porosity the saltiness that comes off of it when cooking on top of it is minimal and will impart only a moderate amount of sodium . On top of that , it has many trace amount of other minerals including but not limited to sulfur , calcium , potassium , and magnesium . These additional trace minerals are what given the Himalayan pink salt its unique flavor . Now if you want to cook using the block merely to try out its taste , i would recommend you use <URL> instead . It is a bag of Himalayan pink salt that is meant to go into your food as seasoning . How long a salt block last purely depends on how well you take care of it and luck . This <URL> explains proper heating and washing techniques . Because these blocks are naturally carved out of the earth , fault lines ( sometimes not visible from the outside or even with the human eyes ) can exist on it . These fault lines will naturally grow bigger as the block is continuously heated to high temperatures . Because of this unpredictability , there is n't a " real " answer . However some can crack after just several uses ( on one testimonial , one woman claimed it broke after two uses . But she was able to get it replaces for free ) while other can last much much longer ( others have report using it for over a year ) . Usually you can get a replacement if the block cracks in a short period of time . Find out about this warranty period from the supplier before buying .
Try this : <URL> A container of oil is placed in a water bath that is held at a constant temperature . You can experiment with 62 - 65C to find what you prefer . Raw yolks are gently lowered into the oil and cook for about an hour . Remove gently with slotted spoon and serve . They can hold for a couple of hours , particularly if you use a lower initial temperature , then lower the temp to 60C after about an hour . If you do n't have a circulator , I am sure you can experiment and achieve similar results in a simmering pot of water .
Eye of round is an excellent cut for braising . You can braise it in stock or red wine . An example recipe would be the classic Beef Bourguignon . It 's also a perfect candidate for slow-cooking in a crock pot , as well as simply roasted in the oven . If cooking it in the oven , use a thermometer and do n't cook it past medium . An overnight marinade can be used prior to roasting for additional flavor as well .
Iodine is commonly added to table salt , hence the term " Iodized " . This is purely a public health issue , much like fluoridation of water . The human body needs small quantities of Iodine for good health , and salt was the method chosen to give it to us . Just as fluoride is added to water , and Vitamin D is added to milk . It actually has nothing to do with the product , it 's just a convenient carrier . See : <URL> for more information .
It looks to me like you need umami . One easy , healthy thing you can add is powdered dried shiitake or porcini mushrooms . I just throw the dried mushrooms into a spice grinder , it 's a powerful punch . EDIT : ( SAJ14SAJ refers to the same concept , glutamates , in his answer )
Dude you said you have cast iron . Cast iron rules . And it performs very well in the oven . No contest against glass and you can make pan sauce on the stove-top after the roasting is finished . My favorite pan to make roast chicken with is my 12 " Lodge cast iron skillet . Glass is probably better at roasting than cheap cookie style sheets , because it keeps the heat distribution fairly smooth . But glass will not hold up well to heavy roasting use and will eventually ruin your dinner when it cracks or shatters . All Clad makes a great roasting pan with wire rack . But for most roasting a simple cast iron skillet works well and is indestructible .
Let it rest anyway . Even at low temperatures , the juices will be flowing through the meat . Resting stops this process . As for the strange colour-changing meat , I suspect you just were n't observant . Meat that has gone brown will not spontaneously go pink again .
I suggest starting with this <URL> for more information on brining . Much of what would be transferred into your turkey is liquid from the osmosis , but some salt , and sugar if you choose to use it , would be added as well . If you purchase an " enhanced " turkey that has already been injected , you do n't want to brine it . The injection has a similar effect . If you 've made an enhanced turkey in the past , you 've already eaten a bird with added sodium . <URL> states that the turkey will gain 10 % of its weight in a combination of water and sodium . Your brine comes out to about 3.9 % salt , so your 12 lb turkey will gain ( ( 12 lbs * .1 ) * .039 ) = .0486 lbs = 21 grams of salt from a 3.9 % brine . Your average soda has 55 milligrams of salt per serving . The total amount of salt from your brine will be spread over the entire turkey , so divide that amount by the number of servings you expect that turkey to provide to get the number of additional milligrams of sodium per serving of turkey from brining . If at the end of the day you do n't want to brine , in that same article McGee also suggests a way to keep turkey moist without a brine . EDIT : I did my math wrong above , and have corrected the formula and results .
Yes . In fact , many , many people believe ( falsely ) that adding salt before or during cooking will keep beans hard ( a myth addressed in your first link ) , and most of these people have been cooking perfectly good beans for many years without adding salt until the beans were fully cooked . The cooking time may vary slightly . In some circumstances , the texture of the beans and/or their skins may soften at somewhat different rates than with salt . But the beans will still cook fine . ( One note : some chefs have claimed that cooking beans without salt causes people to add even more salt afterward to create a flavor that tastes " properly salted . " Beans are generally enhanced by adding flavoring components early enough in cooking for the flavors to penetrate . But you can always add salt afterward too ; the resulting flavor distribution will just be different . )
Do n't put the shrimp etc in the sauce in the first place and cook it separately , that way you do n't have to take it out . Then just top your pasta with it and if say you are cooking meatballs and want a little sauce on them mix a little sauce in with your meatballs and then put them on top . If you want that mixed in with the pasta look then do the same thing I said above and mix the pasta in your individual serving bowls or plates if you are using one after you have dressed your pasta . Your just not going to get an even distribution with random variables , all you can do is pick and count if you want everything evens .
1 . The main nutrients destroyed by heating are vitamins from B complex and vitamin C ( possible loss 50-70 % ) . ( <URL> ) . The extent of this effect depends on the temperature , so roasting in oil can have more negative effect than cooking in water . 2 . Minerals , such as potassium , are not destroyed by heating , but they can leak into the cooking water . So , boiled potatoes can have less potassium than roasted . Boiled potatoes , in skin ( 1/2 cup , 78 g ) : 296 mg ( <URL> ) Baked potatoes , in skin [ should be similar to roasted , I could n't find ] : ( 80 g ) : 440 mg ( <URL> ) A side note : sodium partially counteracts the effects of potassium in your body , so if you worry about potassium intake you may also worry about salt intake . ( <URL> ) 3 . Oil slows down stomach emptying thus slowing carbohydrate absorption and therefore lowering the glycemic index of a given roasted vegetable . Anyway , this sounds as overthinking to me . From the other viewpoint , roasted foods are heavier for the stomach , so they can increase the discomfort after meals . 4 . Heating disinfects foods and makes them more digestible . I 'm not aware that roasting in oil would be better in this regard than boiling in water . Roasted potatoes will retain more potassium than the boiled ones , but this alone is not already a " beneficial health effect . " On the other hand you may consume more calories than intended vegetables roasted on oil . 5 . Cooking , cooling and reheating can increase the amount of resistant starch in the food ; this would , obviously , have a significant effect only in starchy vegetables ( potatoes , red kidney beans , chickpeas ) rather in greens ( <URL> ) . I have not found any reliable information about significant health benefits of resistant starches , anyway . My conclusion : I do not consider roasting healthier than cooking in water ( boiling ) : more vitamins destroyed , heavier stomach after meals , greater unnecessary calorie intake from oil .
The trick that works for me consistently is to put the beets in a sealed container while still hot and let them cool down that way , they continue to cook a bit and the steam from them keeps the skins loose . Also , peel them while they are still warm , if they cool too much the skins may adhere again .
I 'd use the recipe they have on their site for <URL> as a guideline , since it 's very similar in terms of size and shape to a beef roast ( just not as heavy ) . They estimate 10 minutes per pound , which is more or less consistent with the per-side estimate of most broiler recipes ( which is very similar to infrared cooking ) . So start with an estimate of 40-50 minutes but do what they recommend and monitor the temperature very carefully . I have to point out that 4-5 pounds is very heavy/large for high-heat cooking methods like broiling or grilling ( or infrared ) ; it 's not the same as infrared " frying " a turkey or a leg of lamb which has a very high surface area/weight ratio . Steaks would no doubt come out great this way but larger roasts respond better to roasting , so do n't be too surprised if your roast starts to get seriously charred on the outside before it 's sufficiently cooked on the inside . You might want to consider starting with smaller , 2-3 lb roasts , and move up the weight next time if those come out perfectly . Based on their claims , it should take roughly the same amount of time for one large item vs. two smaller items anyway .
The salt in the cure inhibits bacterial growth ( particularly if the salt is one made for curing , and contains nitrates ) . So you should be warned that you are trading a few blood pressure points for enhanced risk of foodborne illness . Unfortunately , I think your options are rather limited -- either to keep the salt as-is , or forgo jerky in your diet .
No . The amount of salt you would have to add to water to make an appreciable difference is enormous . Salt is added to water for various reasons : to season whatever is being cooked in it ; to maintain colour ; to maintain structural integrity .
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
end question
start question
What can be used as a wrapper with minimum taste ?
It 's not entirely clear if this needs to be cooked after being wrapped . If you can cook it beforehand , and you really want something that has no taste at all , then you ca n't do much better than the technique Adria uses his <URL> , which is basically to create paper-thin sheets of gelled agar and gellan , cut them into circles , and wrap . Of course the technique makes it trivially easy to adapt to other shapes and sizes . If you really want them totally sealed , a torch or even a smear of very hot water should do the trick , it 'll gel again as it cools . If this needs to actually be baked or fried , then I 'd go for dumpling wrappers or gyoza wrappers , which are just circular versions of spring roll skins . This is exactly the application they exist for , and there are various kinds of rice-based skins that are so thin , they 're actually translucent : It goes without saying that white rice is pretty bland and wo n't add much flavour of its own . The Cook 's Thesaurus also has a <URL> ; if the above do n't work , maybe one of their other suggestions will suit your fancy .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
I 've never used bhut jolokias but I love spicy vegetable oil . DO NOT just throw the peppers in a jar of oil . Apparently this is bad . Follow the much more helpful links in the comments that follow this and make the oil properly . Once you do this you can cook pretty much anything that needs a little ( or a lot ) of extra heat . You said you have other peppers so it might be interesting to set up a few jars with different pepper combos . Bonus : if what I 've heard of these peppers is correct , you can probably make a low grade mace this way . If you 're looking for something to do right away , I 'd mix a very small piece in some melty cheese and throw it on some chips , burritos , pizza , or anything really . Spicy cheese rocks . Good luck and enjoy .
Well - not exactly . The reason that this technique works with lemons is that they actually do contain quite a bit of water . It 's not so much " water-free " as it is using the residual water from the rinds and un-squeezed pips . Mint contains a lot less water by weight , so if you tried it in similar portions you 'd wind up not with mint syrup , but with slightly-damp mint-flavored sugar . However , that might actually work pretty well for your intended purpose . The flavorful oils in mint will dissolve very well in sugar or in something with a lot of fats , like cream . You could try gently muddling fresh mint in a small amount of sugar and letting it sit until the mint looks ragged , dissolve the mixture in cream , filter out any little bits of mint , and then using that to make your whipped cream . You could also try breaking up the mint a bit and letting it sit in your cream for a while to extract the essential oils , but my suspicion is that you wo n't get quite as intense an extraction that way . The other option that bears mentioning is using an essential oil or extract to flavor your cream or cream cheese instead .
Not being aware of your location , some general tips : 1 ) Buy your fish from a fishmonger , and tell him/her what you are using it for . You want to do business with somebody who 's business is selling fish and only selling fish . They are going to know what 's been stored to eaten raw standards in a way that the just above minimum wage fish guy at your grocery store does n't . 2 ) Do n't buy it early . Buy it the day you mean to consume it or the day that you going to prep it . This question can help walk you through <URL> 3 ) Take a cooler to get your fish . You have to maintain the freshness , that means not allowing it raise in temperature anymore than you have to .
Yes , there are two different meanings of taste , as you already mentioned . One is the salty-sweet-etc . multidimensional space of sensory perceptions felt with the mucous membranes of the mouth ( many authors add astringency and pungency/hotness , which are not felt by the tastebuds themselves ) , and the other is the overall impression of the food . The overall impression includes also the aroma - citric acid and acetic acid in a solution at the same pH level are both equally sour , but you can tell them apart by aroma - and the texture . An example for the texture would be to try confectioner 's sugar and pure rock candy - both are 100 % sucrose , so have the same narrow-meaning-taste ( sensory perception of sweetness ) , and both have the same aroma ( provided they are produced from the same plant at the same degree of refinement , which is often the case with white sugar ) , but your overall feel of them ( taste in the broader sense ) will be entirely different due to the different texture . Taste in the narrow sense can also be slightly different with different texture , due to the difference in availability of the taste-creating chemicals to the taste buds ( and to the rest of the mucous membrane ) . The obvious difference comes with density . Cotton candy does not feel as overpoweringly sweet as the same volume of table sugar , because it is mostly air and does n't trigger as many taste buds at once as the sugar . This is a difference in the strength of taste , not in the taste profile - cotton candy does n't start tasting more-salty-than-sweet due to the different density , it just tastes less sweet . Another thing which might happen to taste is that the structure which creates the different structure isolates some of the taste-causing molecules from the taste buds . I know from experience that this happens with aroma . Adding xanthan gum to food reduces its aroma , I assume that it traps the volatile molecules which would normally reach the olfactory sensory cells . But if it does reduce the taste too , it does n't do so in the same proportion , as there is much more taste left than smell . If somebody knows for sure that it reduces the strength of taste too , I would like to see conclusive information on it ; I only include it here as a hypothesis . Summary , texture changes taste in both the narrow and broad sense . It does so more strongly for the broad sense , which is the one most people care for .
With every ( edible ) part of an animal , you should consider the former duty of the piece of meat at hand . This will influence the internal structure and thus the best method to prepare it . So throwing all chicken offal into one pot at the same time is probably not the wisest idea . Lets " dissect " what we are dealing with here : Liver and kidneys Basically no muscle fibers , just a very tender large gland . Keep in mind that there are no fibrous parts that " melt down " during a long cooking process , just tender stuff that gets very hard and dry when overcooked . So short is the key here - a quick sear in a hot pan and you are good to go . Depending on your personal preference , slightly pink or " just not pink any more " would be a good point to serve . Note that especially for organs from larger animals careful preparation is important : remove all hard parts like " vessels " and excess fat and wash kidneys well or soak them for half an hour to an hour . Some suggest soaking in milk . Hearts and stomachs Just the opposite - a hardworking muscle , garnished with a good amount of collagen . Here , you need time to break down the collagen . When you heat heart or gizzard , first the muscle parts toughen up , then the collagen breaks down and the piece gets tender again . Braising is a common method to acchieve good results . For chicken hearts , sources vary between 15 and 25 minutes braising after roasting/frying them in your pan . It may depend on the quality of meat at hand , where your personal " just right " is . Larger animals ' hearts may need much longer , a very old cook book of mine suggests 1.5 hours for beef hearts . Chicken gizzards are even tougher than hearts : did you notice the white lump of collagenous fibers on each side when cleaning them ? Give it time to get tender . It may take from thirty minutes to over an hour - sources vary .
The quickest way to get rid of leftover wine is to think of it as flavoured water . In many if not most recipes that call for water - especially stovetop recipes like sauces and stews - you can simply substitute wine for the water or stock that the recipe normally calls for . We actually had a similar question recently : <URL> and I 'd recommend you take a look at that , as many of the points there apply equally well to wine . Probably the best summation was in <URL> : I 'd consider stock to be just another flavorful liquid ( thanks Alton Brown ) , to be usable in exchange for others like wine , etc. . You need to be conscious of the gelatin aspect and mindful that some substitutions will be more successful than others , flavor-wise , but it 's always worth considering if stock might be a good substitute for any other flavorful liquid . Just swap the terms " stock " and " wine " and you 're good to go . Even though wine does n't contain any gelatin , you actually do need to be mindful of the gelatin aspect when substituting wine for stock , because you might have the opposite problem if the liquid is supposed to thicken . Similarly to stock , I also would n't recommend using wine in anything that you plan to refrigerate or freeze for a long period , for a different reason obviously - because it can go sour over time . So try to only use it in recipes that will be consumed in the near future . Other than that , just experiment ; whenever you 're making a savoury recipe that calls for water or stock , try using some wine instead . You 'd be surprised at how much character it can add to otherwise simple dishes . Some examples of places where you can replace some other liquid with wine : Rice or risotto Soups and sauces Deglazing a pan ( for a pan sauce ) Salad dressings ( this is an especially good use for sour/fermented wine ) Marinades Poaching liquids ( for eggs , chicken , etc. ) There really are no rules , and any time you find yourself tossing plain water into a pot or bowl , you should keep in mind that you are potentially missing an opportunity to add flavour ( which a good wine will add plenty of ) .
The only one that could feasibly handle it would be the grinder . However , in the manual <URL> on page 5 it states " Note : Very hard , dense foods such as totally dried homemade bread should not be ground in the Food Grinder . Homemade bread should be ground fresh and then oven or air-dried . " If dried , dense bread is too much for the grinder then peanuts would definitely be to much as well . My recommendation is to use a food processor .
Fruits that are high in pectin are not necessarily sour and sour fruits are not necessarily high in pectin . However , pectin is typically found in high concentrations in firm fleshed fruit such as apples and in the skins of citrus . Unripe fruit has even more than the ripe . So - I can see why you would come to that conclusion . It is easy enough to <URL> <URL> of pectin levels in various fruits . As you may notice many of these charts list not only fruits high in pectin but those high in acid . This is because acid is necessary to make pectin gel as it removes a charge on the pectin molecules that prevents them from tangling with each other . Low acid fruits , even if they are high in pectin , need extra acid for this reason . If you are feeling all scientific about it , you can <URL> . There is no danger in experimenting . At least no danger of illness . You might end up with grainy jam if the pectin is too high or syrup if it is too low but it will all taste great .
I also typically use bottled lemon juice , as my budget does not allow for fresh lemons . <URL> says you should use the bottle within a week , but I 've had success with keeping it much , much longer . That said , this is one item that will not usually work well past its best-by date , I 've found . Maybe in the future , you could freeze it in cubes if you ca n't use it soon enough ?
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
The Cuisinart SG-10 spice grinder it designed to grind soft and hard spices . There is no reason why it could n't do coffee The <URL> even mentions nutmeg , which is significantly tougher than coffee Many coffee " professionals " like the burr grind ( like a pepper grinder ) , compared to the rotary blade grind ( like a small food processor ) , but either will work fine Also , many people grind spices in rotary blade coffee grinders , so it comes down to which style of grinding you like One issue with rotary ground coffee is the inconsistency of grind size . There will be too many fine particles that will leech out of the coffee holding/filter mechanism . If you do n't want solid particles in your coffee use a burr grinder
My wife loves it toasted . Toast shredded coconut in a dry pan or oven and put on ice cream and other deserts . It 's really tasty . Like toasting other nuts be careful as if you blink it may burn .
To decrease the bitterness , bring out the sweetness in the carrots by cooking for longer . The best technique I 've found to do this with carrots is frying and steaming them at a low temperature . Make glazed carrots : per 200g of carrot , peel , cut into ~ 2cm thick diagonal cuts and add 40g butter , a half teaspoon of sugar and season with salt and black pepper . In a large lidded pan over a low heat , spread the carrots out in a single layer , add the lid and cook for 25-35 minutes . Shake the pan occasionally . Push the cooking time as long as you can without letting the carrots become overly soft . This should give deliciously sweet fragrant carrot . Another thing to keep in mind is that salt is better than sugar to reduce bitterness so add as much as you can without oversalting the carrots .
I finally found the answer to this question : I was in the supermarket yesterday and on a can of lentils the ingredients listed on the side of the tin had the phrase ' firming agent ' in brackets beside the entry for calcium chloride .
Also known as a " bird 's beak " , it 's used for <URL> root vegetables ( turning them into little footballs ) and making fancy , delicate cuts when carving garnishes from fruit or vegetables . More practically , the curved blade is great for peeling round vegetables and fruit . It 's a complete pain in the butt to sharpen without a belt grinder ( or pro sharpening service with same ) , but gosh , it looks neat . Congrats on the fun present !
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
From my experience and what I 've seen , garlic cloves are often applied to soup in un-chopped glove . Overtime , the boiling will release the garlic 's sweet to the soup without melting itself into the liquid or dissolving into tidbits that attached to the ingredients . I have also seen people pan fry the garlic gloves to golden brown before dumping them into the water . I believe the purpose is to harden the outside of the garlic while getting more exotic flavor out of it . Otherwise , I would chop/dice/smash garlic for dips and frying .
Being near the oven does n't necessarily mean that your cabinets are n't dry - they 're probably as dry as any pantry . I doubt a cooler is going to be significantly better than a cabinet . Without ice/water , it 's just an insulator , so it 'll resist change in temperature , which would tend to make the temperature variation inside it a little more moderate than that in the rest of your kitchen . ( It 'd also lag behind - it 'll stay cooler as your kitchen warms up , then stay warmer as your kitchen cools down . ) But more importantly , it 's sealed , so there 's no airflow . This may cause it to end up more humid than the rest of the kitchen . The best thing is probably just to use the best available cabinets - low and as far from the oven as possible . They should n't heat up all that much from stove and oven use , and I 'm guessing you use the oven more often in the winter , when the whole room is cooler anyway . If your kitchen is still getting too warm , try using a fan to circulate air with the rest of the apartment while cooking . Of course , in your case , in San Francisco , even the summers are n't that warm . You should really be fine using the cabinets . Failing that , you can always just buy a standalone shelf or cabinet , call it your pantry , and put it a little farther away . If you 're still having problems with spices not keeping well , you might want to just try to buy smaller quantities ( if you have somewhere that sells them in bulk ) , or grind them yourself instead of buying ground spices . I would n't be overly concerned about storing them without light , either ; so many people do just fine with spice racks ( clear glass jars ) on the counter . Finally , some foods can also handle being stored in the refrigerator . Really depends what you 're worried about !
end question
start question
Do German or Japanese knives hold their edge longer ?
The reason you 're seeing conflicting opinions is because there are a number of factors ( including steel composition , grind angle , grind profile , and usage ) that contribute to a knife 's edge-holding ability . German/European knives are made of a softer steel than Japenese knives - they need sharpening more often but are easier to sharpen because of the softness . Since the steel in Japanese harder , it needs to be sharpened less often . The other factor is the angle of the edge - the German/European angle is flatter than the Japanese knives . This means the German knives take ' abuse ' better on the edge and requires less sharpening because of that . You can see below that there are two different angles : As far as which requires sharpening less , I 'd say it depends on how general purpose your knife is going to be . If its going to be going through bone and all sorts of things , the German edge will probably stay a bit better and the softer steel will re-hone better . If you 're mainly cutting veggies , breads , cheeses , and other soft items - the Japanese knife will last longer because the difference of edge does n't matter as much as the steel here .
<URL> citing several sources from well-respected journals that says that " Research studies have shown that the healthy omega-3 oils and lignan phytonutrients in flaxseeds are surprisingly heat stable . Not only is it safe to leave whole flaxseeds at room temperature but you can also use them in baking . " This is mainly true of the ground flax , but not the oil . Here 's a couple articles they cite : Hyvarinen HK , Pihlava JM , et al. . Effect of processing and storage on the stability of flaxseed lignan added to bakery products . J Agric Food Chem . 2006 Jan 11 ; 54 ( 1 ) :48 -53 . Manthey FA , Lee RE , Hall CA 3rd . Processing and cooking effects on lipid content and stability of alpha-linolenic acid in spaghetti containing ground flaxseed . J Agric Food Chem . 2002 Mar 13 ; 50 ( 6 ) :1668 -71 As you probably know , flax seed has tons of benefits besides fiber including omega-3 's , anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties . It 's what they feed chickens to make those omega-3 eggs . In general , using whole flax seeds is pretty pointless from a nutritional standpoint , as we do n't really digest them ( maybe if you really chew them really well :) . <URL> can also be found on this site . For another good vegetarian source of fiber and omega-3 's , check out <URL> which you can mix into water for a healthy drink , add to food , or use like flax seed as thickener .
Sweet , semisweet , etc. are American terms for the different chocolate " grades " and are determined by the amount of cocoa mass in the chocolate . In many other countries , terms referring to " darkness " are used . But do n't go ahead and use just any chocolate labelled " dark " , because there are huge differences between brands . I have seen 40 % chocolate marketed as " very dark " or " bitter " chocolate . You should look at the ingredients instead . They list the amount of cocoa mass ( = the sum of cocoa solids + cocoa butter ) . White chocolate is always clearly labelled as such , and seldom has a percentage listed for the cocoa mass . This is OK , because you can easily distinguish it . Milk chocolate has around 30 % cocoa mass , and contains milk in addition to the other ingredients . Semisweet chocolate has at least 35 % cocoa , but can be anything between 40 % and 65 % depending on availability and taste . Here you get into " real chocolate " territory . The only ingredients should be cocoa ( can be listed as cocoa butter , cocoa solids , cocoa mass , cocoa liquor , or cocoa particles ) , sugar , and maybe some vanilla . Different forms of sugar are OK , for example organic chocolates often use raw cane sugar . Stay away from anything with vegetable fat , emulgators , and/or E-numbers listed on the package . If you have the choice , prefer chocolates with higher cocoa butter to cocoa solids ratio ( but this information is seldom available ) . Bittersweet chocolate is somewhere in the 70 % to 99 % range . It has the same ingredients as semisweet , just in different proportions . Unsweetened or baking chocolate is essentially 100 % cocoa mass , and may or may not be processed or conched to the same smooth texture as chocolates intended for eating or candy making , depending on the manufacturer . Be aware that the limits are somewhat arbitrary - some authors count a 72 % chocolate to the semisweets , not to the bitters . But I have found these ranges to work well . Usually , you have some leeway , because the texture of whatever you bake ( and even of conditor chocolate items ) does n't change all that much with ten percent difference in the cocoa amount , there are factors which bring in a larger error anyway . To warn you , almost none of the popular chocolate brands for eating are good for serious baking , including the ones you linked . Cadbury , Milka , Hershey 's and so on are no good . Also , what you see in the baking aisle sold under the name " baking chocolate " or " block chocolate " is probably no good either . At least here in Germany , it is made mostly out of hardened vegetable fat mixed with some cocoa solids . Pure chocolate is too expensive to gain popularity . The cheapest one around here is Lindt excelsior ( not the Lindor line which has vegetable fat ) for around 2 Euros per 100 g . If you are in the supermarket , you should try looking through the ingredient lists of the " premium " brands to see if one of them is good enough . Else , you can try to find good chocolate online . Some stores will even sell true conditor chocolate ( Varhlona , Callebaut ) in household amounts , but this is still very rare .
Removing the stem from a tomato opens up a hole where air , moisture , and bacteria can pass through . Keeping the stem in , or somehow sealing the " scar " from the stem , will prolong shelf life . ( Published in Cook 's Illustrated - requires subscription - <URL> )
Clingwrap works fine for me -- but I do n't use a meat tenderizer -- I just use a small but fairly heavy pan ( but not my cast iron , as it 's not smooth on the bottom ) . When I was in college , I tried a few things . I can get pretty decent results just hitting it with my cutting board . ( with it between saran wrap ) . Part of it might be technique -- if I 'm doing chicken breast I first slice is sort of following the taper of the breast , so it 's neither with or across the grain , but kinda of diagonal . You also do n't want to hit straight down -- you want to angle the blows , so you 're actually pushing the meat out , and not just trying to force it through the counter . And I should mention that I 've only ever pounded out poultry and pork -- I assume beef would be the same , but I have no experience to confirm or deny it .
In my experience cooking for small children I 've found that just because they like a set of ingredients does n't mean they will like them combined if the texture changes . I child who likes chicken and vegetables wo n't necessarily like chicken stew . A child who likes fish wo n't necessarily like a fishcake as the fishcake has a very different texture . That being said it could be that the particular type of fishcake you are making is n't to your child 's taste . I think the reason is the breadcrumbs . Breadcrumbs are a good binding agent for ingredients that have lots of moisture and fat to release during cooking - as the mix cooks the breadcrumbs soak up the moisture and keep the mix together and retains some of the moisture . Fish and shellfish are pretty lean to begin with , and as they are usually pre-cooked when making fishcakes they will have already lost most of their moisture . If you use breadcrumbs to bind the mix there will not be enough moisture to wet them . You could add a bit of water but then you 're going to get a soggy mess . I would suggest making fishcakes with mashed potato instead of breadcrumbs as a binder . The potatoes are naturally moist and hold things together well . I typically use a 60-40 ratio of fish to potatoes by weight . You can coat the outside of the patty with breadcrumbs when frying them off to give the surface some crunch .
For your application you may want to use agar . It is easy to find , gels at room temperature , and will remain so to about 90C . The acidity of the orange juice will slowly ( a few days ) break down the agar , but it should give you enough time for a dish . Other agents include : sodium alginate carrageenan xantham gum A good description of the gelling agents from a cooking perspective can be found in the sites on molecular gastronomy such as tech blog of the <URL> or <URL>
I ca n't speak for the new high end machines that provide pressure profiling , or the cheap domestic machines , which work who knows how , but the standard system for distributing pressure on the coffee is the e61 group head , and most machine group heads are based off the original design . The e61 group is pretty much just a system of 3 pressure valves that allows the pressure to slowly ramp up 9 bars and then maintains that 9 bars of pressure while the pump continues to work . Some versions include other steps such as pre-infusion , or on newer high-end machines the ability to create pressure profiles which adjust the pressure at any point during the espresso shot . Also note that all the resistance HAS to come from the coffee puck , so you may be grinding too coarse or not tamping hard enough . If you need to measure the pressure from the grouphead , espresso machine techs use a device like this . You could probably make your own at home if you are so inclined .
Beans freeze marvelously . I put mine in freezer bags and lay them flat so they freeze quickly and are easier to thaw . They are very sturdy little nuggets of joy and hold up well to canning or freezing without getting mushy . Different beans behave differently . Pintos soften quickly and do n't have much of a skin . Black beans keep their shape and skin a lot longer . Kidney beans are in the middle - if you boil them too long they will mash but they are a lot sturdier than pintos .
There are several negative effects from over-kneading bread dough : Overheating - if the dough gets too warm , it will ferment too quickly ( or over ferment ) and will therefore lack flavour . Oxidisation - kneading for too long can cause the flour to oxidise and bleach , again impairing flavour . Breaking down - eventually the molecular bonds of the gluten will break , which is obviously not what you want to happen ! The latter two are really only possible with electric mixers , however . Most doughs are ready for fermentation when they reach an internal temperature of 77-81ºF ( 25-27 ° C ) . You can also check the gluten development with the Windowpane Test : pull off a chunk of dough and stretch it with your hands . It should stretch to form a very thin translucent sheet , without tearing .
Ripening of the avocado is slowed down greatly by refrigeration , so it is usually a good idea to let the avocado ripen fully at room temperature . Once it is ripe , it can be stored in the refrigerator for at least a week . This way , it is ready to use whenever you want it . Fortunately , there is a day or two when the avocado is ripe , but not too ripe , so if you check on it everyday when ripening , you will be able to save it at the correct ripeness without worrying about it too much . Putting an unripened avocado in the refrigerator may prevent it from ever ripening completely . Once cooled to near freezing ( 40F in most refrigerators ) , it seems that some avocados ( maybe it depends on the type ) do n't ripen anymore , even when removed to room temperature .
The shells are not used in making peanut butter . You would need to shell these peanuts ( and remove the papery skins from the individual peanuts ) before grinding them to make the peanut butter . It does n't matter whether they are roasted in the shell or not -- what matters is that they are roasted , to give the deeper , richer flavor . I have to assume your peanut vendor did not mislead you , and therefore the peanuts you bought are already roasted . You would just shell them and grind them . Note : if they are roasted , they will be somewhat crunchy , with a toasty complex aroma , and light medium beige to brown color , whereas raw ( or " green " ) peanuts will be closer to very pale yellowish beige , like unfinished lumber . Due to the large number of peanuts that may be used in making a reasonable quality of peanut butter , and the inconvenience of shelling those peanuts , one might choose to purchase already shelled , roasted , preferably unsalted peanuts for the purpose . Edit : in response to the second question , I defer to the mighty <URL> whose recipe indicates to roast peanuts at 350 F for 30-35 minutes . Since he does n't give us a test or indicator to know when they are done , and a careful and meticulous recipe writer such as Brown would not omit this if one exists , I infer no good test for doneness of the in-shell peanuts exists . However , since the individual peanuts within the shells are very uniform in size , the time and temperature guideline is likely to be quite effective . You should almost certainly be smelling roasty peanut aromas as the peanuts close in to being done , but there is no way to describe that . Its like knowing when a cake is done by the aroma -- its certainly possible , but you have to have experience with the recipe to know .
Oh absolutely , you certainly do n't want to sharpen a kitchen knife on a 200 grit stone ! You 'll want one medium stone in case you ever need to remove a nick or something ( but then you should probably take your knife to a pro at that point ) , and then probably like 2000-4000-6000 grits for routine polishing . ( Note Japanese grit numbers are different than American oil stones ) .
It would certainly be safe . Vermouth is a fortified wine , meaning that it is wine with added alcohol . The added alcohol gives the vermouth a much longer shelf life , even at room temperature after the bottle is opened . You can store open vermouth for at least several months without any discernible loss of quality . It will continue to be safe indefinitely as long as the bottle is kept closed , keeping the alcohol from evaporating . That said , I can see no reason why two vermouths could n't be mixed in advance . As a matter of fact , you could add the bourbon too . Perhaps some kind of alcohol super-taster could tell the difference , but I sincerely doubt that any mere mortal would be able to tell the difference between a just-mixed Manhattan and one that was mixed 3 months ago ( assuming , of course , an airtight container ) .
I would consider the professional equivalent of the electric carving knife to be the meat slicer , i.e. the rotating blade device most often seen behind the deli counter . At home , to break down a roast bird , take the meat off of a lamb-leg , etc. , a good manual knife is most likely the proper tool . If , on the other hand , I have a large ham ( cooked or cold ) , or some other chunk of boneless meat that I want to slice more-or-less uniformly , then I will break out my electric knife . For the home user , it is a fairly practical device , not taking up too much space , etc. . But its uniformity and speed can not compare to the slicer . As to a professional kitchen , you may or may not find one there . Certainly in deli-type restaurants you would have them . In a more traditional restaurant they are not as concerned with quick production of sliced meat , so any slicing is probably done by hand .
Is n't that normal ? I suppose if it 's causing a problem , you could use a non-stick ( teflon , etc. ) muffin pan , without the paper liners . You could also try silicone-coated ( parchment ) liners . A quick check reveals that e.g. , Amazon sells them . < purist > cornbread shall be cooked in preheated cast iron , and if that 's sticking , you need to <URL> . < / purist >
Sweetness is perceived in inverse relation to temperature , so what you say is quite correct . Further along the same range , ice cream or sorbet tastes much less sweet when frozen than when you taste the initial base .
Well your chef 's knife should constitute about 90 % of your usage I 'd say . It should be used for slicing , dicing just about anything . Your paring knife is actually the 3-4 " one you describe . Paring knives are typically used for delicate tasks like , coring apples , peeling , and some people use it for mincing garlic because it 's so small . I 've never seen a 2 " serrated knife before , so I 'm not sure what I 'd use that for if anything . If you 're using it because it seems to do a better job on the vegetables , then that 's a sign that your chef 's knife is dull . I have seen tomatoes sliced with a 6 " serrated utility knife due to their tenderness . However , you generally do n't want to use a serrated knife on an onion , this will cause a lot of the gas to be released that makes you cry .
A Baker 's ( now owned by kraft foods ) employee named Sam German developed a chocolate recipe that was sweeter than semi-sweet chocolate , as well as containing a blend of chocolate liquor , sugar , cocoa butter , flavorings , and lecithin . Baker 's honored Sam by naming the chocolate that he created Baker 's German 's Chocolate . In 1957 the recipe was published in a Dallas newspaper , although nobody is sure exactly when the recipe was originally created . Generally Foods - who had bought the brand - noticed that alot of people liked the recipe and started a PR campaign for German 's Chocolate using the recipe . They started sending it to newspapers all over - and people liked it . At some point the " 's " got dropped from the name , introducing all of the confusion we have about the origin of the cake today . References : <URL> <URL> <URL>
TLDR ; If you defrosted the chicken in the fridge , go ahead and refreeze it . If you thawed it on the counter , cook it , then freeze it . I was always taught : DO NOT REFREEZE uncooked meat ! But , I did a search and found this somewhat contradictory statement from a reliable source : " Refreezing Once food is thawed in the refrigerator , it is safe to refreeze it without cooking , although there may be a loss of quality due to the moisture lost through thawing . After cooking raw foods which were previously frozen , it is safe to freeze the cooked foods . If previously cooked foods are thawed in the refrigerator , you may refreeze the unused portion . Freeze leftovers within 3-4 days . Do not refreeze any foods left outside the refrigerator longer than 2 hours ; 1 hour in temperatures above 90 ° F . If you purchase previously frozen meat , poultry or fish at a retail store , you can refreeze if it has been handled properly . " <URL> There 's also this : <URL> Which says 1-2 days for raw chicken in the fridge .
end question
start question
Does cornstarch affect the pH of what I 'm cooking ?
I do n't have any info on the affect of pH , but cornstarch can make your compote separate when canned : <URL> . Two alternative thickeners are tapioca and clearjel . I 've used clearjel for canning with excellent results . I have n't used tapioca to can , but do prefer it in my pies . ( posted as an answer per Sobachatina 's recommendation )
actually seafood 's country origin does make a very relevant difference . Why ? ocean floor type , water tempearture , tradewinds , upwelling and feed availability . Best octopus comes from Spain and Portugal ( actually portuguese octopus is the best ) Viet , China , Indonesia or Mexican octopus live in hot water . Portuguese coast has a very mild water temp , from 10 C to 20 C and a lot of sun exposure that triggers phytoplankton blooms . I could expand on this as I am a professional fisherman . Now , any country can import any seafood from anywhere and then label it as " theirs " so one must know which species are native to a certain location . Sustainability is also very imnportant and both Portugal and Spain are EU members where sustainability is a very serious matter .
It 's to prevent caking . See , for example , <URL> : It is not recommended to substitute confectioners sugar for granulated sugar . Since confectioners sugar has a much finer texture , and it contains a small percentage of cornstarch to prevent caking , substituting can give you unexpected results . Many shredded cheeses include corn starch for the same reason .
Japanese style whetstones made of natural material , also known as " waterstones " , rely on water to make a paste from the material , and this paste is abrasive and aids in sharpening . Oil is not as effective as water in making this " mud " as the stone material is n't as soluble in oil . Further , once you have used oil on any type of whetstone , water may no longer be used as a lubricant , as it will be shed by the oil that has soaked into the stone and be ineffective in carrying away the swarf ( metal abraded from the blade by sharpening ) . Here is a <URL> on natural waterstones from an online retailer .
You 'll sometimes hear television cooking show hosts describe what they 're doing as " cooking out " the paste . What they 're actually doing is altering the flavor of the chili itself , not manipulating the level of capsaicin that was introduced . If you take a typical chili paste which has been combined with garlic and other things and then saute it in a fat , you will lower the level of heat that 's tasted ( and possibly take some bitterness out , depending on the chili and what 's in the paste ) , but not lower the level that 's actually ingested . If you literally want to cook it out , put some sliced chili with nothing else in a searing hot pan , but make sure no one else is home or going to be home for a while , and wear a respirator . The capsaicin has nowhere to go and vaporizes as it burns ( seriously , do n't do that , if you did that in my kitchen I 'd throw a live crab at you ) . Various kinds of fat bond well with the capsaicin , essentially creating a sort of encasement . To demonstrate how this works , grab some sriracha and some cream . Mix in about half a tablespoon of sriracha to about 300 ml of cream , taste it . Now , simmer the cream a bit ( about 3 - 5 minutes ) , take it off the heat , let it rest a few minutes and taste it again . The level of sriracha did n't change , what happened is the cream got its hands on the capsaicin that it contained . It 'll continue to get milder the longer it sits . That 's why a glass of milk can rescue you from atomic hot wings and why water just broadens the pain as it makes sure your whole palate gets a chance to taste it :) Beer just makes you care less about it . Now , sugar has the remarkable quality of helping to hide heat with its mighty <URL> when it comes to your palate . The heat from the chili shows up and your palate says " what ? I 'm too busy with this sweet , I can only listen to a little of you " . To see how that works , repeat the experiment again , but this time throw a teaspoon or so of confectioner 's ( or castor ) sugar into the cream with the sriracha , along with an additional squirt or two ( around 10 ml ) of sriracha . That 's why coconut milk works so perfectly in a curry . The best bet for your recipe is finding a way to get some kind of fat into it . That could be coconut milk , fatty bacon , or whatever makes sense based on how you want to serve it . Then , optionally , sweeten it up a bit ( also remember that citrus helps offset sweet , handy to keep that in mind when you 're ' fixing ' a dish ) - some raisins sound like they 'd work rather well with what you 're doing . Maybe go with coconut milk and raisins , and thin it out with a bit of chicken stock if needed ? I really try to encourage people to take an hour and just experiment with ways you can alter and sort of control chili , because it is a lovely thing to cook with . Just remember , whatever you put in the pan initially ends up being eaten , you 're just hiding a bit of that as you cook .
When tomatoes are fried , you can see that the oil becomes coloured red - so at least some of the colour components are preferentially soluble in oil . I will hazard a guess that , under the circumstances mentioned , the oil coats the tomato particles , and some of the colour migrates into it to give a red surface . Because the oil forms a coating , that coat will inhibit oxidation . The oil will also improve the mouth feel of the soup . Just the way I see it ...
I 've seen bread recipes like the one that you described . When bread is baked in an oven with steam - the starch in the crust is able to gelatinize before it all dries out and becomes crispy . This is what makes the crust crisp , shiny , and delicious - characteristic of " artisan " breads . Most people do n't have steam enhanced ovens ( or the ability to hack their oven to add steam : <URL> ) The recipe you linked has water added for steam but then takes out extra insurance ( they cheat ) by adding the cornstarch glaze to mimic the effect . By adding extra , pure , starch on the surface of the loaf more gelatinization occurs . Additionally , cornstarch gelatinizes at a lower temperature that wheat starch . Conceivably , you should be able to use any starch and see similar results but , in the US at least , cornstarch is by far the most common . It should n't be necessary if you are able to produce enough steam in your oven .
There are three major properties an edible fat ( I am assuming you are not asking about inedible oils like petroleum based products ) has that affect how it is best used : Flavor Saturation Smoke point Properties Flavor The flavor of the fat is very important . So called <URL> ( like canola oil or refined grapeseed oil , or refined peanut oil , among many others ) have very little flavor and so are suitable for almost any cooking task , as they will not interfere with or compete with the other flavors in the dish . Other oils such as sesame oil are primarily used for the delicious flavor that they provide , and are almost more of a condiment than an oil for culinary purposes . In between are oils like olive oil and coconut oil which have a distinctive flavor , but also have good qualities for cooking . Many non-oil fats used in cooking ( like butter , or bacon fat , lard , or suet ) also have distinctive flavors . Saturation The level of <URL> in the fat controls how hard the fat is at room temperature . Most oils are fairly low in saturation , and are so quite liquid even at room temperature . The major exceptions among the vegetable based lipids are coconut oil and cocoa butter . Coconut oil is solid at room temperature , and cocoa butter is actually quite hard at room temperature . Note that while you only asked about " oils " , many common cooking fats not usually called an oil are much more saturated , including butter , lard , and hydrogenated vegetable oil such as the US brand Crisco . The level of saturation can affect texture of baked goods made with a given oil , and whether the fat is suitable for the creaming method or in making laminated pastry in baking . Saturated fats also resist rancidity better over time better than non-saturated fats ( although they are still subject to rancidity ) . Smoke Point The smoke point of a fat or oil is temperature to which it can be heated before it begins smokng . Oils which have a high smoke point ( such as grapeseed oil or peanut oil among others ) are more suitable for high temperature searing , or deep frying . Applications The oil for a given application is based on the properties it has . Cooking For general cooking uses ( by which I am inferring general sauteeing , shallow frying , greasing of casserole dishes , and so on is meant ) , normally you want a fat which is either : Neutral in flavor so as not to interfere with the dish . The neutral oils are all useful for this . Complimentary in flavor , to enhance the dish . Many cuisines have traditional fats which are flavorful , but are integrated into their cuisine , such as olive oil or butter . Saturation matters less ( as the fat can be melted before greasing a pan , for example ) , and smoke point is not terribly relevant unless the application is searing , in which case you want a very high smoke point . Depending on the application and the cuisine from which a dish derives , almost any oil or fat may be used for general cooking purposes . The major exception is sesame oil , which is so flavorful that it is used as a condiment , not a fat , for culinary purposes . Deep Frying The most important aspect for deep frying is smoke point . A low smoke point oil would break down and add off flavors to the dish ( not to mention making the kitchen smoky and setting off smoke alarms ) . Secondarily , for oils that are going to be reused over time , saturated fats such as hydrogenated vegetable shortenings break down more slowly , and may be considered advantageous . Generally , flavorful oils are not indicated , as the same factors that give them good flavor often give them low smoke points . Some good oils for deep frying include peanut oil , canola oil , or hydrogenated vegetable shortening . Dressing For most dressings ( by which I infer you mean salad dressings as used in many Western style cuisines ) , the most important factors are flavor and saturation . You want an oil with good flavor ( such as olive oil ) or neutral flavor ( such as the many neutral oils like canola , refined peanut , corn oil , and so on ) . Most dressings also need an oil which is liquid at room temperature , and thus low in saturation . The major exception is the class of hot dressings made with bacon fat . Many dressings are made from olive oil , or one of the neutral oils . Baking While you did not ask about baking applications , there are two types of baking which require a fat with specific properties : cakes made by the creaming method , and laminated pastries like croissants or puff pastry . These applications require a fat which is solid at room temperature , but still plastic enough to be manipulated . Generally , only butter and hydrogenated vegetable oil are suitable . Bottom Line The oil or fat you choose for any particular purpose will be based on what is best for that application -- but a good neutral oil with a high smoke point such as refined peanut oil or canola oil can serve the vast majority of culinary purposes most of the time . See also : <URL> <URL>
Weak organic acids such as those found in fruits and vegetables ( citric acid , malic acid , tartaric acid ) do n't react with sugars . 1 There is no change in acidity , which you correctly defined as measured by the pH. At the same time , sweet and sour are two tastes which are real antagonists - adding something sweet actually reducess the sourness we perceive , as opposed to just distracting us from it . So the sugar changes the sourness ( the taste ) , but not the acidity ( the chemical property ) . Hearing it otherwise comes from the fact that most people do n't even realize that there is a difference between the two terms , and use them interchangeably . 1 They can partake in reactions as catalysts , for example to create invert sugar when cooking up sugar syrup , but the acid itself does not react away .
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
There are a number of other threads here with some bearing on this question , including : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> What we can glean from all of these is that temperature control is critical , and can vary between different models . You want a refrigerator that can reliably maintain a consistent temperature without wide temperature spikes , and you probably want a relatively low differential between different parts of the box ( so that , for instance , items in the bottom compartment do n't freeze while items on the top shelf spoil ) . Different compartments can help in isolating foods from one another , but they would be especially valuable if their temperature and humidity could can be independently adjusted to allow for minute control . Also , keeping your fridge clean is important , so that mold , bacteria , and so on ca n't collect and spoil your fresh new produce ; thus you want a model that can be readily disassembled and scrubbed . Easily removable shelves , compartments , and so on would be beneficial , and they should be made from easy-to-clean plastics or glass with minimal texture . At the same time , these need to be sturdy and adjustable , so that you can thaw that 20-pound turkey without having to sacrifice too much other space or breaking a shelf . Speaking as not just a chef , but as a home bartender , I also want adjustable space inside the door ( s ) so that I can store a variety of differently-sized bottles upright . But that 's more for convenience and efficient storage than it is about taste or quality .
Ah , so the question is " Why does boiling the tofu change its texture ? " . Answer : it does n't . Try doing this recipe without boiling the tofu , I think you will find it is pretty much the same . I think if the boiling serves any purpose at all it is to remove any last remnant of taste from the tofu . I do n't mash tofu often , but when I do , I never boil it and I 've never had a problem .
Water treatment often uses chlorine or chloramine to kill germs or algae . If you are smelling it it 's more likely to be Chloramine than Chlorine . Chlorine will dissipate from water over time naturally , but boiling for 20 minute will drive it out . Chloramine will also dissipate naturally , but in a much longer time frame , and would take over a day to boil out . So boiling water will get rid of chlorine but not chloramine ( at least not in a useful time frame ) , and boiling will concentrate other minerals in the water which is usually undesirable . It will also de-oxygenate the water , making it flat . Flat water is n't great for cooking - compare the flavor of a cup of tea or coffee brewed with flat water as opposed to fresh and you 'll see what I mean . Your best option for water treatment chemical removal at home is an activated charcoal filter unless you want to invest in a UV treatment system , which would seem to be a bit OTT . You could also use a reducing agent from a brewery supply company , but if all you want is some fresh tasting and smelling water then the filter is your best option . <URL> has a thread on this which is worth reading .
Generally ... not as quickly . The salt content of the wine is much higher than drinking wine , which will preserve it longer . It will still " go bad " eventually . ( Going bad is more a decrease in quality . It will still be edible , but unpleasant . It wo n't make you sick , except by the bad taste ! ) See this from <URL> : " Cooking wine typically available in North America is treated with salt as a preservative and food coloring . " So , it 's safer than normal wine , but I 'd try and use it soon . The sooner , the better .
Hmm I suppose they add starch to keep it from turning back into one block of cheese . Thing to do is if the sauce looks to thick just add more milk .
This seems to be a myth based on the idea that wine can be ' bruised ' by popping the cork or handling the bottle roughly . ' Dr Vinny ' , Wine Spectator Magazine 's advice expert , has this to say on the subject : Someone asked whether or not making a cork " pop " when you pull it will bruise the wine . Others have also asked about bruising in relation to decanting . I 've never had a wine that was fine one moment and damaged the next because of handling , and can safely say that bruising wine is a myth . Source : <URL> and also : A wine does not get " bruised " by moving it around . And let me address some other myths , such as that wine will bruise if you make a cork " pop " or bruise if you decant it : no and no . Outside of smashing a bottle on a concrete floor , there is nothing I know of that will take a perfectly fine wine and damage it in one movement . Source : <URL> You are more likely to have a problem with an old , crumbly cork falling into the wine than some pseudo-homeopathic magic going on when the cork pops .
<URL> 160 ° F ( 71 ° C ) for dishes containing eggs . If you 're scrambling eggs or making an omelette , as long as they 're coagulated/solidified , they 'll be safe . The easiest way to confirm this is with sous vide eggs . For example , this <URL> has 155 ° F , 160 ° F , and 165 ° F eggs : <URL> <URL> <URL> which clearly show that the white wo n't be totally solidified until 160 ° F or even 165 ° F , even when cooked for an extended period of time . ( To be clear , those lower-temperature eggs are actually safe if cooked for sufficient time . The point here is just to show coagulation versus temperature , to demonstrate that when eggs cooking in a pan , you can use the solidity as a temperature indicator . )
It sounds to me like you are making your pudding almost as thick as it should be . It should be able to stand up a little . In other words , if you spoon some into a desert cup or small bowl , it should make a pile . It should n't be solid like ice cream , it should be smooth , but still stay in a pile shape . Do you have custard where you live ? It should be similar to that in thickness . Though custard is very different from Chocolate pudding .
The heat is the same ; all peppers contain <URL> . The <URL> defines heat in terms of capsaicin content . Use the peppers that have the flavor you want , and make it as hot as you want , and you 'll be set . And the flavor besides heat is definitely concentrated in the flesh , so you should n't notice any real difference in pepper flavor either .
Oh yes . Different people use different categories , no one system is canon , but this bit from <URL> is helpful ; I would n't hesitate to substitute within these categories . Dark and oil rich : anchovies , bluefin tuna , grey mullet , herring , mackerel ( Atlantic , Boston , or King ) , Salmon , farmed or King ( Chinook ) , sardines , skipjack tuna White , lean , and firm : Alaska pollock , catfish , grouper , haddock , Pacific cod , Pacific halibut , Pacific rockfish , Pacific sand dab &amp; sole , striped bass ( wild and hybrid ) , swordfish Medium color and oil rich : amberjack , Arctic char , Coho salmon , Hawaiian kampachi , mahimahi , paddlefish , pompano , Sockeye Salmon , wahoo , yellowfin tuna White , lean , and flaky : Atlantic croaker , black sea bass , branzino , flounder , rainbow smelt , red snapper , tilapia , rainbow trout , weakfish ( sea trout ) , whiting White , firm , and oil rich : Atlantic shad , albacore tuna , California white sea bass , Chilean sea bass , cobia , lake trout , lake whitefish , Pacific escolar , Pacific sablefish , white sturgeon You mention that you have successfully substituted halibut or tilapia for cod . This list puts tilapia in a different category than the other two . That illustrates that fish species substitution is a fuzzy thing , and a cook should n't feel bound by any list . Even within categories , any change in the choice of fish is going to change the final taste of the dish , either slightly or dramatically . That is n't necessarily a bad thing , in fact it can be a very good thing . Just as an aside , sustainability is a very good reason to substitute one species within a category for another . In the US these are to good sites to help choose a species : <URL> ; <URL> If anyone knows of good sites that provide good information about other parts of the world , please leave a comment . From leon , 2 good sites to help make sustainable choices in Australia : <URL> or <URL>
end question
start question
Which types of fish in sushi must be cooked ?
All of the following are generally cooked items : Shrimp , ebi , available raw in sashimi , but almost always lightly poached . The poaching brings out sweet and subtle flavors otherwise masked by a metallic tang . It also prevents the highly perishable shrimp from losing texture to spoilage . Octopus , tako , available raw in sashimi when sliced very thinly , but otherwise poached lightly . The poaching reduces toughness and brings out additional flavors in an otherwise bland meat . Eel , unagi , as you noted , is ALWAYS grilled , and steamed . This is necessary to achieve the truly transcendent flavor and texture of unagi . In fact , the cooking of eel is such a challenge that it is generally a whole separate chef profession in Japan . Most eel comes from one of the professionals , because sushi cooks know they will never be able to match the quality themselves . Improperly cooked eel becomes tough and has unpleasant flavors . Raw , the blood of eels is even toxic ! Sweet egg omelet , tamago , is by definition cooked . This is not to say that raw egg does n't have a place in Japanese food though ; tamago kake gohan is a dish of raw egg on rice , with soy sauce . Cockle is lightly poached Crab , kani is always cooked because ... well eating raw crab meat is just vile . For further reading , I highly suggest the <URL> . Food Safety : Sushi is only prepared from the very freshest and highest quality seafood , and sushi chefs are trained to identify parasites and signs of spoilage . In addition , some areas ( including the EU ) require sushi to be frozen for 24 hours to kill parasites . If that was n't enough to help settle your stomach , the pickled ginger and wasabi served along with sushi are more than garnish or simple condiments ! Both ginger and wasabi have potent and documented anti-microbial and anti-parasite properties . Ginger is also well-known for combatting nausea . Source : the CRC Handbook of Medicinal Spices , <URL> for wasabi and <URL> for ginger . ( links are to Google Books copy ) .
Unless the package instructions are very different , yes that should be fine . A typical pudding mix will consist of starch the main ingredient , required to thicken the liquid ( typically milk ) sometimes sugar especially for the " instant " types , others let you add sugar separately flavourings sometimes " the real deal " like vanilla , often artificial . sometimes extra goodies like chocolate shavings or caramel crumbs for an interesting mouth-feel sometimes additives like food colourings or preservatives not really neccessary , IMHO . ( A very basic pudding mix would be corn starch and cocoa powder , btw . ) So if you combine mixes , you combine starch with two ( or more ) different flavourings , which will be absolutely fine . Just read the labels to make sure you are adding the correct amount of milk etc. .
It should n't be a problem , since their cooking times are similar .
My understanding is that the ratio shifts from 10:1 ( liquid to roux ) for a pale roux , up to about 5:1 for a nutty brown roux , with a somewhat linear relationship between the two extremes . A dark brown roux has very little thickening power , mostly they are used for flavor more than actual work-a-day thickening . The problem may not so much in the roux ratios , but in other ingredient variations . For instance , if you are using a traditional 3:2 flour : fat roux , and your fat is butter , make sure you are using clarified butter , or that you are allowing most of the water to cook out of the butter before adding the flour - excess water in the roux will break down some of the starches and reduce the thickening strength . Finally , there will be some variation no matter what - you can always make a little extra roux in a second pan to integrate if necessary .
I 'd look towards a dutch oven and cake-like items : upside-down cakes cobblers / crisps / grunts / bettys / slumps / etc. . In all of these , the fruit on the bottom helps to protect from the bottom of the cake-like-item cooking too quickly . You can either cook directly in the dutch oven , or drop another pan inside the dutch oven to speed on cleaning if you 're going to be cooking a few of 'em . You 'll also want to look for dutch ovens that are made for baking -- they have a lip on the lid , so you can put coals on top and pull the lid without the ash falling into what you 're cooking .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
Kudos to your wife for giving it another shot ! Let me start with what I feel is the most important part of my answer : find a good fish monger and make friends . If the supermarket is the best you can find , so be it , but learn the name of the person behind the counter , ask about the fish , be interested . Ask what 's just in , ask what 's fresh . If the fish is frozen at sea , ask if you can get some from the freezer instead of the stock in the case that 's been thawed and sitting all day . Ask to touch and smell the fish . Look at the stock - do the whole fish have clear eyes ? Does it smell like a dumpster ? Getting the freshest , best fish will help you and your wife enjoy it more . <URL> on shopping for fish . Now , on to your bullet points . Fish should never smell or taste " fishy " . Fishy smelling fish is a sign of bad fish . I find that a lot of my friends who say they do n't like fish have had experiences with poorly handled or old fish . Fish must be fresh ( or frozen at sea and handled properly afterward ) to be good . I 've stopped ordering fish in restaurants unless it specializes in fish ( and I do n't mean Red Lobster ) or is well known for their freshness . That said , some fish is certainly more strongly flavored than others . I <URL> here with a few varieties of mildly flavored fish . I do agree that flaky , white-fleshed fish is generally the mildest . Flatfish , like sole or flounder tend to be consistently mild . Tilapia has become an extremely popular fish lately . However if you do find a good fish monger , talk to him about it and you should be able to find plenty of interesting venues : monkfish has been called the poor man 's lobster , and I had some arctic char the other night that knocked my socks off . As for why white fish tends to be less strongly flavored than meatier fishes , I ca n't really answer authoritatively . My guess would be that meatier fishes tend to be more oily and fatty , which equals more/stronger flavor .
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
This should n't be a problem . What I recommend is to go in this order : Do n't pre-salt the food , other seasonings are fine but anything with a high sodium content should be left out Cook to your desired temp ( and I would recommend pasteurizing since it 's not a direct serve situation Pull food from bath and plunge immediately into an ice bath filled about half and half with cold water and ice to rapidly drop the temp of the food Once chilled , put in freezer to store , leave them directly in the bag your cooking with . If your using ziplocks I would suggest wrapping them in plastic wrap and then putting them back in the ziplock before freezing . When it 's time to reheat , repeat your sous vide process from the initial cook . It will take the same amount of time it initially took to bring the core up to temp + the time it will take to unthaw the food in the bath . Reheating direct from frozen is your best bet for quality . Post-sear the food and add salt at that point . Adding salt at this point will prevent the food from taking on a cured texture when it is frozen and held for a period of time . Enjoy !
Each variety of chile has a subtly different flavor , but generally the kind to use is determined by how spicy you want the dish to be ; spicier dishes need hotter peppers , otherwise you end up with a dish dominated by the peppers . For this reason , most people sort chiles by their spiciness , measured in Scoville Heat Units <URL> . The exact same papers can be used for Mexican and Indian cooking , as long as you want similar spiciness . To give options , I like to keep 3 kinds of dried peppers : a mild paprika , a standard hot pepper , and a ground , smoked one . The sweet paprika is for savor , the hot pepper to add spiciness , and ground , smoked peppers bring that distinctive smoky flavor to dishes . I usually use de Arbol pepper flakes ( about 30k SHU ) to add heat , and smoked hot paprika for smoked stuff . When I have a dish that showcases the flavor of a specific pepper , it 's time to get fresh ones from the store . For general purpose cooking , many people use mild paprika to add sweet , smoky flavors to Italian , French , Spanish , and Balkan cuisines . Generally these are of the Capsicum annuum species . Indian , Szechuan Chinese , and Central American cuisine normally use moderately hot peppers , in the 10-30k SHU heat range . Cayenne , tabasco , and de Arbol peppers are good examples . Thailand ( and some parts of India ) use very hot peppers up to 100k Scoville , called Bird 's Eye or Thai chiles . These peppers may be either Capsicum annuum ( normally milder ) or Capsicum frutescens ( normally hotter ) . Finally , Mexico and northeastern India use the hottest peppers of the Capsicum chinense species , including habaneros and the naga jolokia , which go from 100k SHU to 750k SHU . Mexico is a special case , because many varieties of pepper are mixed to get the desired flavor . Everything from bell peppers to habaneros gets regular use , and may be used smoked or dried .
From what I 've read , caffeine content can be variable even within varieties . There are possibly seasonal variations , variations in harvesting and processing technique , variations in the original plants ... Psychological effects ( e.g. what smells perky to you ) might be just as strong , and steeping for 10 minutes instead of 5 might make as much difference as any choice of variant . So take any answer with a grain of salt , and do n't be afraid to simply go with what seems to subjectively work best for you . That said , <URL> than other sencha teas , and I believe compared to other Japanese green teas as well . ( I found similar information elsewhere ; it 's not just wikipedia . )
There are two common varieties of pickled ginger in Japan ( and a bunch of less common ones ) . The " gari " is " amazu-shouga " ( 甘酢生姜 or 甘酢しょうが ) it 's usually thinly sliced and often , though not always , left uncolored , or just colored enough to leave it slightly pink instead of yellowish-white . Due to generous use of sugar or other sweeteners , it 's usually somewhat sweet , and that 's right there in the name , which roughly translates as " sweet vinegar ginger " . It 's generally made with a young ginger that has a pretty thin , moist skin . Another variety , which typically comes in the shape of thick matchsticks , is a bit saltier and , because of the thickness , a bit firmer . It 's called " kizami-shouga " or ( きざみ生姜 or きざみしょうが ) . Kizami refers to the shape , not the flavor . Occasionally this will be labeled " beni-shouga " ( 紅ショウガ ) , which means red ginger . I believe that more mature ginger is used for kizami-shouga than is used for amazu-shouga . It 's generally used to garnish and season things like yakisoba or okonomiyaki , but is not typically served with most types of sushi . The amazu shouga is more common for most sushi . So it 's possible that you 've picked up kizami-shouga instead of amazu-shouga . While there 's nothing stopping you from adding sugar or other sweeteners from the brine , that probably wo n't help that much . If you do have amazu-shouga , it 's also possible you 've just found one that does n't taste that good . The quality of packaged Japanese pickles I 've found in the US is n't all that great , though I 've occasionally found decent umeboshi . You might try a different brand , or consider pickling your own ginger . The basic process for pickling the ginger is a hybrid between salt pickles and vinegar pickles : You peel and thinly slice the ginger , and rub it with salt , leaving it for at least an hour or overnight to sweat . You 'll then add a solution of sugar and rice vinegar , occasionally with a little bit of ume-zu , which is the salty brine extracted from umeboshi-making , or beet juice , if you want to guarantee a pink color .
The food safety guidelines are based on scientific &amp; mathematical calculations along the lines of : Given an initial bacteria count of X they will under the given conditions mulitply to a number of Y amd have produced Z [ unit ] of toxins . Now what to do with these values ? We use them like seat belts or helmets . Not wearing a seat belt will not automatically kill you , only if you are involved in an accident you are much more likely to suffer severe injury or death without it . Still , nobody could responsibly recommend ignoring a seatbelt , knowing that accidents do happen . But with food safety , many are willing to skip their seat belt , so to speak . One very common misconception is that contaminated food can be detected by smell , looks or taste . Yes , some kind of spoilage is obvious , but many , especially the more dangerous ones , are not " visible " . One very prominent example is <URL> . Note that many toxins are not destroyed by cooking , more details in our <URL> . I can guarantee that people in your country have issues with cases of foodborne illnesses - all countries do . You need to keep in mind that Foodborne illnesses need not become apparent immediately or shortly after a meal . The symptoms of <URL> , for example , might start as late as 72 hours after infection . It is likely that the connection between a sudden bout of sickness and a meal eaten three days prior is simply overlooked . In healthy adults infections may pass unnoticed or cause only mild sympotms like indigestion . The human body can handle a certain amount of bacteria or toxins , the individual levels of tolerance vary , though . So children , elderly people or those with a compromised imune system are more likely to suffer and have a higher chance of severe complications or death . The given safety guidelines are calculated to protect these groups as well . Also note that often the side-effects are as dangerous as the pathogens themselves , diarrhea being a classic example . There is no way of determining the amount of bacteria present in a specific dish , piece of meat or other food prone to spoiling - unless you get a lab involved . The values used to calculate safe thesholds contain a certain safety margin . Your dish could contain fewer bacteria to start with or if any were present , they might not have multiplied that much . ( But they might as well have , we ca n't safely know . ) The two/four hours rule simply means that the food will remain in the safe range , not that it will be spoiled afterwards . So what now ? It is entirely up to you to whether you choose to drive with or without seatbelt or helmet . Make an informed devision and consider the welfare of those weaker than you . What you as a healthy adult can stomach ( pun intended ) , might be fatal to a young child or weak elderly person . Only a few days ago the <URL> published a news release on foodborne diseases : First ever estimates of the global burden of foodborne diseases show almost 1 in 10 people fall ill every year from eating contaminated food and 420 000 die as a result Children under 5 years of age are at particularly high risk , with 125 000 children dying from foodborne diseases every year WHO African and South-East Asia Regions have the highest burden of foodborne diseases ( <URL> )
Fundamentally , the reason for this substitution is that applesauce contains <URL> . In baking , the role of oil is to coat the flour , preventing it from combining with the water ( or other wet ingredients ) and developing <URL> . Gluten is what causes dough to rise , and also gives elasticity to the final product - what most people think of as " chewiness . " When you 're baking , for example , a cake , or even a pie crust , you want to limit the amount of gluten that develops . A cake or pie crust should be moist , light , and fluffy , not tough and chewy . When you bite into a cake and find it very dry and bread-like , that is because it has developed a lot of gluten . A good amount of oil or other fat leads to a lighter , moister , less-glutinous result . The pectin in applesauce can also , to a certain extent , help to inhibit gluten formation in a dough , but the similarities end there . I can not stress this point enough , and I 've seen many other online resources get this dead wrong : Pectin ( applesauce ) is not a straightforward or foolproof substitute for fat . The mechanisms by which pectin and oil work in this context are completely different : Oil is a <URL> . Lipids bind to starch ( including the ~ 75 % starch in flour ) and are <URL> - the traditional example of this is dew drops forming on the surface of grass or plants ( the latter being the hydrophobe ) . In a sense , oil forms a protective " shield " around the flour molecules . Pectin , on the other hand , is a <URL> , and specifically a <URL> . Pectin is not hydrophobic and does not actually protect the flour molecules . In fact , pectin is of the same family as starches , which are also polysaccharides . What 's really happening here is that the pectin competes with the flour for water . That means less water overall reaches the starch and gluten-forming proteins ( giladin and glutenin ) in the flour , and because of this , it is not able to develop as much gluten or gelatinize much of the other starch . What does all of this actually mean for you , the baker ? Quite simply , it means you have to be very careful with this substitution : Too much pectin can turn your recipe into a jelly-like consistency . Too little pectin will fail to prevent glutenization ( in other words , you 'll get bread ) . Pectin has the property of <URL> - meaning that once it starts to gel , it also starts to expel liquid , and your dessert will dry out or deflate over time . Pectin is actually water-soluble at high temperatures ( technically , it forms a <URL> ) , it just happens to absorb a lot of water along the way . Baking for too long , or at too high a temperature , will cause the pectin to break down and dissolve completely , making it useless . There are also several other problems ( or at least " gotchas " ) when making the apple sauce substitution : Applesauce is <URL> . It has a good deal of water and various proteins and acids , and even a certain amount of lipids . The exact quantities , however , depend on how the applesauce was made , so it is very hard to get precise control over the amount of pectin , and the textbook 1:1 substitution ratio is almost never correct . Another thing that applesauce contains is sugar - even unsweetened applesauce . You will almost certainly need to reduce the amount of sugar elsewhere in your recipe . This may be difficult , especially if the bulk of the sugar is used as a dry ingredient . Applesauce behaves somewhat similarly to oil , but do not even try using it as a substitute for any other fat . Butter , in particular , contains milk proteins which act as natural emulsifiers ; pectin does have certain stabilizing properties but is a rather poor emulsifier compared to butter [ citation needed ] . And it goes without saying that the flavour is substantially different from that of applesauce ; oil is " OK " to substitute for because it has very little flavour of its own . If you plan on using applesauce as a substitute for oil in a recipe that does not specifically explain how to use it as a substitute , then I strongly suggest you do two things : Do n't substitute the entire quantity . Use 1/2 oil , 1/2 applesauce , or maybe 1/4 oil and 3/4 applesauce . You will likely also have to lower the total quantity of oil/applesauce to approximately half of what it originally was ( give or take 1/4 ) . If you can , try this substitution on a small scale first , and experiment with the quantities of oil , sugar , and applesauce , before going all-out and putting it into the oven while your guests arrive . It 's very likely that on the first few attempts , you 'll end up with something that 's palatable , but nowhere near the quality of the oil-based recipe . Ignore these disclaimers at your own risk !
Keep it airtight in a cool , dark place and it should remain good infefinitely . You 'll certainly be fine 1-2 years .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
Most beans can be soaked and cooked together with two exceptions . The beans should obviously have similar cooking times . For example I would n't cook chickpeas with other , harder beans because the chickpeas would be mush . Most brand do have similar cooking times so this is n't often a problem . Second , black beans should n't be soaked with any other beans because they will stain the other beans a very unappealing gray color . Admittedly this is cosmetic but I soak my black beans separately
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
In the time before electric mixing , chocolate , made by hand , sometimes required the effort of multiple people switching out as they tired , needed to work on some other task , or switched in and out cheaper laborers and experts during less or more critical stages of the process . Mixing chocolate in one direction is important not because there 's " one true direction " but because changing direction in the middle of a batch altered the quality of the chocolate due to turbulent flow . Thus large chocolate houses defined the specific direction they chose so if you had to stir a pot , you did n't have to ask the previous person which direction they chose , or guess . Everyone in that company stirred in the same direction . The direction itself did n't matter - the consistency of direction is what mattered . This is rarely an issue now . Few people eschew mechanical means of stirring , and one does n't switch machines in the middle of a batch - the machine does n't tire . But yes , some companies did adopt a consistent stirring direction that did improve their chocolate by reducing process turbulence .
It really depends on the texture you are looking for in your finished product . If you want a chunky chicken salad then bake your chicken breasts seasoned or not , I season mine , and then cube them . If you want something a little more exciting pan grill the breasts to the point of a little char and then dice . If you want your chicken to be flavorless and get all of your flavor from the mix you are tossing your chicken into , boil it or put it in a slow cooker if you are cooking up a big batch . It all really comes down to how you like to eat your chicken salad , and more importantly how pretty you want it to look in your serving method , because a cajun blackened chicken salad sandwich can look down right homely . I say try them all until you fall in love with one temporarily and when that has lost its passion try a different version . Also as a side note if I am preparing it for me and not for someone else , so it does n't have to be all white and pretty , I use thighs instead of breasts since they are more forgiving and generally cheaper . If I am not just breaking down a whole chicken and using the leftovers .
end question
start question
Is it safe to eat raw eggs ?
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
Raw eggs are actually a lot safer than said to be believed , especially in recipes such as this one . Rocky <URL> all the time ! haha So please feel free to make the mousse and eat it too ! Although cooking them almost always kills bacteria if they reach 150 degrees Fahrenheit . The most dangerous part about using eggs is something that many of us were taught to do at a young age , separating the yolk . Most people separate the yolk by cracking the egg and pouring it back and forth between the two egg shell halves . This is the easiest way to spread salmonella because it can hide on the egg shell or in the pores inside the egg . One thing to never do is wash an egg . They are washed after they are laid and a new barrier is put on by the egg company , some sort of hardened mineral I think . Washing the egg will make your situation worse by destroying this new man made barrier . For the last part of your question I suggest not feeding your baby and thing that has a small percent chance to have any bacteria , such as mousse , because their immune system is still developing . I would also choose not to feed your baby anything high in sugar , thats what Grandma is for later in life . The baby 's tastes are forming now and veggies are the way to go with that . Need to teach them to like good for them foods . They like sweet stuff when they are born so they do n't need to learn how to like those . Hope I helped !
It is perfectly safe to eat ( when produced , transported , and so on under sanitary conditions , just like any other edible meat ) . In some cultures it is considered a delicacy ; in others , it is not considered appropriate to eat , but those issues of cultural norms , not of safety . The news is because it is a violation of trust ( truth in labeling ) in a cultural background where horses are not normally eaten . Personally , I might wonder what other shortcuts the purveyor had taken if they are lying about content ...
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
They are not safe . An apple used in this manner is an aromatic , not to be eaten . I often use a combination of apple , cinnamon , rosemary and onion inside my bird . This stuff does not reach the necessary temperature to kill the little beasties that will hurt you . If it does , then you 'll have one dry bird .
There are <URL> on the market that come with a lot of solids , and it 's perfectly normal for those to have all kinds of chunky weirdness if they 've sat for a little while . Wine vinegar has a wide range of normal behaviour : it can get <URL> * or <URL> , and that 's normal . Even filtered vinegar can develop cloudiness and still be perfectly safe . If your distilled vinegar gets cloudy , I 'd worry . That should n't happen . Still , foreign bacteria do NOT grow well in vinegar . If your distilled vinegar is growing something , you probably know why . <URL> , unless you 're storing it outside on your deck , or something . If you brew your own , your mileage may vary . * This is often a result of leaving live bacteria ( <URL> ) in the vinegar . <URL> , like live yoghurt cultures . There is n't much data either way , but it 's certainly not harmful .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
Yes , generally , especially if you 've kept them in good conditions . ( If the package has been open and it 's damp and they might 've grown a little mold , that 's obviously bad . ) The expiration date is for purposes of quality , as you 've noted ; it does n't indicate anything about safety . So give them a quick inspection , see if there 's enough flavor left for them to be worth using , and go for it .
A metal pan will not crack simply from cold liquid . If you heat it up to a very high temperature and submerge it in cold water , that 's not such a good idea . But deglazing is just a tiny amount of liquid . Now , aluminum is another story - if it 's hot enough and you pour cold water ( or cold anything ) on it , it can warp , even with a relatively small amount of liquid . And for Teflon and other " coated " cookware , you can ruin the coating that way . But heavier steel or cast iron - no way . If you 're really concerned , just keep the deglazing liquid at room temperature . Deglazing is usually done with vinegar and you keep that at room temperature anyway , right ? I deglaze my CI all the time with cider vinegar and have never experienced even the tiniest crack in 10 years . I 'm pretty sure it 's safe . It 's great , actually ; CI deglazes very easily , you just need a small splash of vinegar .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
The answer to your first question is basically the answer to your second question with associated risk analysis ( i.e. , if yes , is it worth it ? ) . So to answer your second question , yes it does seem likely that most plastic containers <URL> under some conditions . Furthermore , many of the compounds that are released from plastics have not been fully tested , so the absence of specific information on their risk is not evidence of an absence of risk . Since it does appear that these plastics can release harmful compounds under certain conditions then the answer to your first question of is it safe , boils down to " are you replicating an environment where enough endocrine mimics are released to cause harm ? " Given the lack of research on all of the ways in which plastics leach and the fact that there is <URL> , I personally would conclude that the risk exceeds the inconvenience of having to find a non-plastic container to transport your tea .
I think what you 've stumbled across here is an interesting implementation of a technique , and not really a specific dish . The technique ( simplified ) is poaching . It 's just a very unique way of doing it . I 've had eggs poached in black tea in Macau , and you 'll also find the technique used in English and French cooking . There 's an old recipe for scallops with demi-glace that calls for the scallop to be garnished with a quail egg poached in tea with bergamot ( Earl Grey , commonly ) . I wish I could remember the name of it and my French is n't nearly good enough to search effectively . My eggs were cooked until just runny , but it 's not uncommon to have them warmed just to hot and gooey with the white still translucent ( and delicious with noodles ) . There 's probably a colloquial name for what she described , but it 's essentially an adaptation of a technique that ( very likely ) originated in China .
Yes , it is safe . It is really more a question of quality . I would suggest that , in your specific situation you get a browning dish . ( It would be something that you could still use after your move , if you like . ) Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . There is nothing like a charbroiled steak straight off the grill . But for the times when you do n't want to fire up the grill - or even get the broiler dirty - there is a way to sear steaks in the microwave on an accessory called a browning dish . A microwaved steak will not brown well without one , and the dish is really the only acceptable way to brown in the microwave . Browning dishes can be either flat rectangular plates or black skillets that are designed for the microwave . Embedded in the plate or skillet are metal strips that cause the microwaves to couple or link , producing an electrical current . The dish also is coated with a metal that is resistant to the electrical current . You can read the rest of the article and the how-to information by following the link .
You will be fine . As the chicken softens , and with a bit of a stir , it will all get cooked . the steam and conductive heat will cook and keep safe even the minuscule portion above the water line .
My italian grandma does it , but says to really make sure they dry out . You can dry them out and then freeze them , if it makes you feel any less hesitant .
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
I believe that if you cut/scrape off the mold the rest will be fine . With a huge chunk of wrapped and refrigerated parmigiano reggiano , for example , I have been scraping it off before grating it for over 18 months now with no ill effects .
end question
start question
What heat should I use to BBQ red/green bell peppers ?
Roasting I use direct heat , medium-high to high , specifically I use my grill but I 've seen people set them directly on a gas stove burner ( this seems like a fire hazard , so do n't walk away ) . You could also broil them very close to the broiler , or roast them , but roasting will take longer than direct heat methods . To easily peel them , you want to go until they 're as black as possible . The blacker , the easier they are to peel . On my propane grill on medium-high flame , this takes about 4 minutes per side , my grill burns a little hot so you might need 5-6 minutes per side depending on how your grill works . edit : I also keep the lid closed so the flame climbs a bit more , especially important on a windy day . You can find a picture on the top of <URL> , I actually let mine get significantly darker than that , but it 's not required . There are some great general roasting tips in <URL> as well as peeling tips in <URL> . Grilling For grilling peppers , instead of keeping them whole , seed them and then cut them into quarters and lightly coat them with a little oil . I still use a higher , direct heat , but I flip the peppers more often so they will char a little without completely blackening . Since you 're just going for a light char , this will take a little less time than roasted peppers would , about 8 minutes compared to 12 . There is a good step by step guide with pictures <URL> .
Go for 145 . 2 hours . Salmonella dies even at " low " temperatures ( from 135 ) as long as you cook it for longer . 135 for at least 87 minutes , will kill salmonella . However , I like it best when cooked at 145 for 2 hours .
You could try <URL> : Stick it in the freezer , and skim off the ice . Keep the ice , discard the liquid and melt the ice . If you had a freezer that you could precisely control the temperature , I believe there are certain preferred target temperatures , but simply checking on it frequently in a standard freezer should do the trick . The vacuum based suggestions also sound good , if you have appropriate equipment for that . Basically , you 're asking about distillation in reverse . Traditional distillation is primarily boiling , but there 's also a few traditions ( applejack , <URL> ) involving ice distillation . In ice distillation they 're after a higher alcohol product and keeping the liquid ( discarding the ice ) , but I believe if you switch which part you keep you 'll get the same results . Much like any other distillation , you may need to run through the process multiple times to get the desired result . With beer , the primary flavoring is from compounds extracted from hops , which react with oxygen to produce unpleasant flavors . By " unpleasant " I mean turning the bitter and tangy flavors into something more like wet cardboard . So depending on what you 're doing you may also need to protect your beer from exposure to oxygen . I believe with beer the real enemy is oxygen , with heat or light accelerating the undesirable reactions . Depending on the style of beer , esters and phenols may also be important to the flavor . In styles where those flavors are desired , it 's typically a wide mix , and it 's quite possible some of them will evaporate easier than alcohol or be harder to freeze . Note that no distillation method is " perfect " , with all distillation methods you 'll have water and alcohol in both outputs of the process , you 'll just have a greater amount of alcohol in the evaporated or unfrozen part and a lesser amount in the unevaporated or frozen part . Note also that in the US any <URL> .
Drinking chocolate is a bad way to flavor a cake . It consists of cocoa powder mixed with sugar , and has nowhere near enough chocolate taste . The correct way to flavor a cake is either baking chocolate ( the real thing , not " fat-containing cocoa glaze " ) , or cocoa powder . You should choose the one to use depending on the recipe ; do n't just add it to a normal sponge cake recipe , both change the texture . Cocoa powder is easier to use , as it will only add starch to the cake . Baking chocolate will give you a richer texture due to the cocoa butter it contains , but finding a good recipe for it is more complicated , as the classic proportions have to be adjusted not only for the starch , but also for the fat and sugar it adds . Also , the fat it adds ca n't be creamed , which interferes with leavening , and it has to be melted before adding it to the cake , which requires some skill ( mostly temperature control ) and is something I would recommend for an intermediate rather than a beginner baker . In short , find a good recipe which uses cocoa powder . Drinking chocolate is not only prohibitively expensive , it also gives an inferior result . After you feel more comfortable with cake baking , you can consider advancing to recipes which include baking chocolate . My personal favorite are Desaulniers ' recipes , but the Gourmet magazine recipes are probably more accessible , as many of them are freely available online ( try searching on Epicurious ) . You can also look around for other sources ; I would advise against trying out random recipes off the Internet before you have gathered enough experience to be able to judge the quality of the results by just reading the recipe .
For the beef , I would recommend rib-eye . A traditional Philly cheese steak uses thinly-sliced rib-eye , so it 's time tested . Other than that , I bet sirloin would do well with quick , hot cooking . It does n't have much fat or connective tissue , so you do n't have to worry about melting anything before it becomes tender .
Not sure if there is a correct way . It 's basically skewered hunks of meat on a wood fired BBQ You can do your own Churrasqueira by using a Weber " kettle " style BBQ or a B.D.S. ( Big Drum Smoker ) . Use long steel skewers ( or swords ! ) for your meat and BBQ away Thick steaks of beef and lamb work well . Also try chicken drumsticks and some small Chorizo ( spicy sausage ) Do n't marinate the meat , but toss some coarse salt onto the meat surface before and during cooking . Do n't go crazy with it , but it seems to absorb the roasting flavours and really boost the taste Use a smoky fire , if your wood wo n't smoke add some fresh wood or herbs that do . Try lavender bush ( wood and flower ) , grape vine or kiwifruit vine cuttings , or any other fresh cut aromatic wood Watch the amount of fat dripping onto the hot coals ; too much will make the meat taste bad . Shield the coals as required or trim off large chunks of fat There is no need for motorised skewers that takes the fun out of it . Occasionally turn the meat by hand while enjoying your favourite beverage , and " chewing the fat " with a friend Serve by taking a skewer to the diners plate , and hold skewer nearly vertically above plate . Use an extra sharp carving knife and slice onto the plate with a downwards cut so juices and other slicing splatter goes onto the plate and not onto the diners If you are having a Churrasco party , give each diner a flippable symbol ( e.g. red/green ) to indicate to the server ( probably you ) " GIVE ME MORE ! " , or " I am stuffed " . Serve a round of each meat as their outer layer becomes done Coolest Churrasco cooker I could find The rails on the top are what the skewers rest on Following the car theme , some more cool Churrasco cookers here <URL>
Room temperature for sure ! Eating something like salami chilled detracts from its flavour . Obviously you want to be a bit careful about leaving it out for a really long time , but I usually take anything I want to eat out of the fridge well before consumption .
The bowl is n't absolutely essential ; it 's part of the aesthetic . The shape does serve a purpose , as most of them have nicely curved bottoms that will minimize the chance of the powder from clumping near the edge of the bowl . I 've used a normal whisk when preparing " matcha latte " drinks for a client of mine back in the day . There 's an advantage to having the 80-120 " tate " ( bristle ? ) because they make it easier to break up beads that form as moisture contacts the tea . But a normal culinary whisk will do the trick , perhaps with a bit more work . I do n't see how the silicone brush would help whisking ; they tend to be pretty floppy ( and mine has occasionally had some of the silicone strands break off when I 've used it for brushing food ) .
You should be able to cook on your grill using various types of wood such as hickory , mesquite , cherry , maple , apple , etc. . Per <URL> , birch can be used also . Birch - A softer wood , Birch is best used when grilling or smoking cuts of pork and poultry , providing a flavor similar to some varieties of maple . Birch is a softer wood and can also be syrupy . Also hard woods cook longer than soft woods . Be sure to use large chunks rather than chips or small pieces . Just keep these things in mind when cooking with birch .
I roast them " fresh " as I need them , but my method scales up easily . I use a gas grill and turn it to high . Set the whole peppers on the grill , and turn them when the skin is black on the hot side . When they 're black all over ( after maybe 2-3 minutes per side for all 4 sides of the typical ones in my local supermarket ) , I put them into a large disposable plastic container with a tight fitting lid and let them cool in it . The skin peels off quite easily , and they can be seeded and de-stemmed quite easily . If I were going to preserve them , I 'd probably chuck them into a plastic container or zip-top bag and freeze them .
In a cooking instruction , " low heat " does n't refer to the temperature the sauce reaches , but the speed at which you heat it up . Many stove rings ( hobs ) are marked min-2-3-4-med-6-7-8-max . On that scale , a low heat would be 2 or 3 . Very low heat would be min or 2 . Left on the stove long enough , even at min , your sauce will boil . The key about using low heat is that it probably wo n't boil in the amount of time you need to melt the cheese , and that 's good . I make cheese sauce regularly ( did so tonight ) and I start at med to melt the butter , turn it down while the roux cooks , add milk , once it 's pretty thick I turn it down even further , or just turn it off since an electric element will hold heat for a while , then stir in the cheese . If it ever happened that my cheese was n't melting I guess I would turn the heat back up a bit , but that has n't happened to me .
I am not sure if you are confusing roasting with charring but both are the same basically , though roasting the pepper by charring the skin would be a more accurate nomenclature . Roasting brings smokiness to the pepper and softens its bite . It allows you to remove skin more easily . When you char the outside of dried peppers in a dry skillet with spices , then soak , it allows you to remove the pith more constructively than tearing it open and it adds depth to the flavor . For fresh peppers they become somewhat less spicy , for dried peppers it allows them a more expressive flavor ( think of roasted sesame or pumpkin seeds or coffee beans for a comparison ) . Roasted peppers add a different dynamic than their raw counterpart and you should definitely look into the difference ( if you enjoy chipotles end adobo you already have a taste for them without knowing it ) .
A quick google brought <URL> : In this case , the brown ones may have been closest to mature or viable . When fully ripe , most peppers seeds are supposed to be brown or tan . not white . In my experience , peppers with brown are just old and withered . They are safe , just not as tasty . Unless the brown thing is mold , in which case they may be poisonous .
There are many cultivars of rhubarb , just like there are for most other vegetables . Surprisingly , it seems some cultivars with the best flavor have less of the prized pink color . The color of any particular rhubarb stalk will depend on both the cultivar , and how it was grown . You should treat it the same way , regardless of the color . So yes , green rhubarb is safe to eat , with the same caveats as apply to any rhubarb . Especially , do n't eat the leaves . In On Food and Cooking ( 2004 edition ) , Harold McGee indicates that rhubarb tends to be about 1.5-2 .0 % acid by weight ( mostly oxalic acid ) , which makes it quite tart . This is an inherent aspect of the vegetable . The only way you really will reduce it is to use proportionately less of it in your recipe , by either reducing the absolute quantity of rhubarb , or increasing the quantity of other ingredients . In pies and coblers , this is usually done by combining the the rhubarb with another fruit like strawberries , as well as a great deal of sugar . Oxalic acid is soluble in water at about 14 grams / 100 mL , and even more soluble in ethanol at about 24 g / 100 mL , <URL> . This means that anything you infuse into vodka is likely to be extremely tart , perhaps unpleasantly so . You will want to carefully control steeping times and or ratios . While I have never tried this , I would imagine the tartness would overwhelm whatever rhubarb flavor you might pick up . There might be a reason there are so few famous rhubarb cocktails . Still , there are a number of rhubarb cocktail recipes that you can find by googling " <URL> " . They tend to start with a cooked down puree of rhubarb , rather than an infusion , however , and it seems to often be used in the sour role .
First off , when reheating soup , it wo n't matter much . If you get the pan too hot before you add the soup , you could get some spattering , but that 's about it . As for making a fresh batch , there are those who believe that browning the ingredients before adding the liquids will develop more flavor . This will be a lot easier to do with a hot pan , than trying to get a cold pan full of stuff up to a heat sufficient to cause browning . Overall , it 's a tradeoff . If you 're in a hurry , it might be worth saving the few minutes to just throw everything in the pan and heat it up . If you really want to develop every last bit of flavor , you 'll probably be better off heating your pan , browning ingredients , then adding liquid .
Just omit the mustard . In just about every recipe I have seen for beans , it is proportionally a very small component . And while we tend to think of mustard as being bold in flavor , it 's really the vinegar that makes it seem that way . You should also stray from any recipes that call for store bought barbecue sauces , as many will contain mustard . Finally , one reason mustard appears as an ingredient in dishes like this is it is an emulsifier . You may wish to find a substitute emulsifier , making sure of course that your friend can handle it as an ingredient , to keep too much of the pork fat from separating in your mixture .
Well , if it comes directly from Southern Italy you could use it to make some Southern Italy specialty like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , all of which require candied fruits . Traditionally pastiera is done with a mix of candied citron and orange peel plus candied pumpkin ( cucuzzata ) which however is not the easiest ingredient to find . Citrus is definitely a must for sfogliatelle . There are two types of sfogliatelle ricce and frolle . Sfogliatelel ricce are better tasting in my opinion , but can be challenging to do at home . <URL> Sfogliatella riccia Sfogliatella frolla Cannoli traditionally only have candied orange peels , but I guess citron would do well in them anyway . Cannolo siciliano Note : the pastry in the Wikipedia photo for pastiera seems way too thick and crumbly . The pastry should be very thin , there just to keep everything together , and should not be the dominant taste .
Number 3 will give you the best results . There simply is nothing as great in this world as a latke crisp from the frying pan , having spent but a couple seconds on a paper towel receiving the blessing of a few flakes of good sea salt . I 've never tried number 2 . If you do , please report back . Number 1 will not give you crisp latkes . They will still have the delicious taste of homemade latkes , but they will be soft , not crunchy .
As a fermented bean paste , it should last for weeks in an airtight container in the fridge . For best results , make sure to leave as little head room ( for air ) as possible in the container . To be honest , when I store Miso ( for example ) , I just squeeze the air out and put a clip on the bag it came in , and then leave it in the fridge . If you need longer storage than several weeks , you can probably freeze it , though at that point you might want to consider buying smaller packages .
It depends on what you plan to use them for . They wo n't ever be crisp again after freezing , but if you 're cooking them anyway , they will be fine . I do this all the time with leftover peppers . You should certainly remove stems and seeds and cut them into whatever size you will need for cooking .
end question
start question
unwarp my cutting board ?
Not much you can do about a warped wooden cutting board to be honest apart from either chuck it out or live with its warpedness ! I do sympathise , I have a warped one too ! In future ( I 'm going to heed my own advice ) use food grade wood oil on the wooden cutting board , this goes a long way to stopping it from warping , protecting the surface and making it easy to clean .
Hard to tell for sure , but it sounds like a good sour to me . It has been my experience that sours do not always smell like yeast . Did you add a pinch of yeast in the first place when making the sour ? If not , you would be relying on nature to have any natural yeast spores within your sour , and that does not always work out that way . Either way , if you are only using the sour to impart flavour in your bread , it does n't really matter if it has yeast in it anyways , as you will add yeast for leavening purposes when you mix the bread . It has also been my experience that often a ' strange ' smelling sour has excellent flavour . Ultimately , it ca n't hurt to bake a loaf .
My guess is that you do n't have real cheese in your sandwich . I 've seen this before with things called cheese that were really types of <URL> . It happened when then product was exposed to moisture that it seemed to absorb , which then caused it to turn soggy and glue-like . If you 'd have said that you had tomato in your sandwich , I 'd have been sure this was what was going on .
Minerals , naturally found in salt whether it 's mined or evaporated ; and believe it or not , water . <URL> In the US , the FDA requires that salt must not contain more than 2.5 % minerals other than NaCl and still call itself salt . That 2.5 % does not include water . <URL> Your numbers for sodium content seem a bit low , but not extremely so , especially for a very unrefined , wet salt . The more refined the salt , the less trace minerals it will contain . Outside the US , it 's possible that your salt also contains added iodine , fluoride , folic acid and/or anti-caking agents , but in the US those would be listed among the ingredients , and would be included in that 2.5 % . Only iodine and anti-caking agents are common in the US . Plus , nutritional information labels have legal margins of error . If and when they can , they 'll be slick . Lower sodium looks good on a nutritional label .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
For cooking in with the pasta , consider red or yellow bell peppers , carrots , cauliflower or other vegetables that hold their color well when heated . Also , you can help this problem a lot with good , flavorful , beautiful garnishes . Even a simple shower of minced parsley goes a long way . Lemon or orange zest is nice too . Check out this <URL> from my blog , you 'll see how the quick , fresh garnish of cherry tomatoes and parsley turns a brown pasta bright ( and maybe learn a new way to cook pasta too ) .
Yes , as you said , the increased surface area makes it go bad faster . Not only that , but bacteria on top of the meat can now go to the middle with little resistance . Consider the expiration date of ground beef and whole beef slabs . Pork tends to go bad faster than beef , and freshly butchered pig smells of feces ( especially right beneath the skin ) , but they still go bad faster .
If the dishwasher and hand-scrubbing can not remove stains , professionals sometimes use a simple solution : we apply pure bleach directly to the board and scrub it in with a stiff-bristled plastic brush . Then we allow the bleach to sit for 5-10 minutes . At this time , most stains are gone or almost gone . Then we clean the board THOROUGHLY until no bleach smell remains . Usually it takes 2 cycles in a dishwasher or hand scrubbing and rinsing several times . This method is extremely fast and effective , particularly for troublesome vegetable stains ( beets , carrots , chopped herbs ) .
When the grill has cooled completely ( after dinner ) : I take some kitchen paper or some newspaper and clean off as much as possible . I use a wire brush with a scraper to brush the grill , and scrape off any bits that are stuck on . I DO NOT re-oil , and the grill stays nice and greasy for the next usage . Before the snow of winter rolls around , I take it all apart , clean the plates with a BBQ cleaning foam and water , and the cover that goes over the burners gets a good scraping , then I wash and clean the frame . This way , the grill will last years of good use .
Based on comments to the original question : It sounds like you used the wrong type of sugar . Icing sugar is also referred to as <URL> or confectioner 's sugar . From your description , it sounds like you used what we call ( in Canada ) superfine or fruit sugar ( sugar for sprinkling on fruit , not from fruit ) .
Your primary defenses against cross-contamination include proper planning in the order of what you 're cutting and proper cleaning between uses . In the case of your stew , simply cut the vegetables first and then cut your meat . Doing so in this order you wo n't need to wash the board between the vegetables and meat . If you want to expedite the cooking process , then either use a separate board for the meat first so that you can start browning it while cutting the vegetables , or simply wash and re-use the board . A good scrubbing with hot soapy water is fine for your knife and board ( including wood boards ) . As mentioned previously , if you 're still concerned about bacteria you can rub the board with lemon juice or vinegar which will kill any residual bacteria . Using separate boards that are relegated to specific meat vs. vegetable duty is n't necessary as long as you 're properly cleaning your boards . A board only used for meat items is just as liable to transfer bacteria to the next item being cut on it if it is n't properly washed between uses . That being said , if you 're properly cleaning them then it 's fine to cut vegetables on a board that 's also been used previously for meat . As for cutting boards , your best bet for the care and maintenance for your knives are either wood or composite materials ( usually a laminated product of paper and resin - " Epicurean " being a prominent brand . Never use a tempered glass cutting board or other hard surface ( granite , marble , Corian , etc. ) as these are heavily damaging to the edge of your blade and unsafe for you as there is nothing for the knife to bite and grip into and it 's much more likely to slip and cut you . Plastic cutting boards and mats are n't very good on your knives and the boards in particular are either too hard and dull your blade prematurely or are soft and end up with lots of cuts and grooves which then trap food . People often have a false sense of security with plastic boards believing them to be " non-porous " . As the board is used , food material ends up crammed into the cuts and grooves and while the boards can go into the dishwasher , that only removes the surface grime , not that which is impacted and over time you increase the potential for bacterial growth to occur . Wood boards ( including bamboo ) are much better on your knives but to maintain them in good condition you need to properly maintain them . Periodically , when they look dry ( kind of like chapped skin ) you need to oil them with mineral oil . The mineral oil you buy at your local drugstore or grocery store pharmacy is fine , no need to buy fancy " block oil " in gourmet shops . Do n't use vegetable based oils as they will go rancid and transfer the flavor to your food . I like to give the cutting board a heavy coating at night , let it soak in overnight , and then buff off anything that did n't soak in . This will keep your wood fibers soft and supple so that the board wo n't split and crack , the fibers will swell back together making it more " self-healing " as you cut on it , and the oil in the wood will repel liquids that would otherwise try to soak in . When a wooden board gets marred and nicked up you just need to take it to the garage and give it a good sanding before dusting off , rinsing and re-oiling . Do n't use bleach on boards ( plastic or otherwise ) as it will typically leave a distinct smell in the board .
It is normal for store bought canned beans to have a cloudy liquid . This applies to previously dried , starchy beans such as cannellini , kidney , etc. . The water will get cloudy also when you cook dried beans . For others like green string beans or wax beans you would expect to see a clear liquid .
Butterflying a hot dog ( or any similar sausage ) has two effects . First , as the moisture inside the hot dog expands during cooking , causing the casings to frequently burst due to the pressure that builds up . When you butterfly a hot dog the this is prevented . Such blistering does not ' harm ' the hot dog but are somewhat ' unsightly ' , so I would call this an aesthetic effect . The second effect is that it allows the hot dog to cook through more evenly . Particularly for those who prefer their hot dog well done butterflying can get the insides cook through without charring the outside . [ Edit : found something interesting to add ... ] If you want to impress your friend with something different , try <URL> .
You need to make sure you use the right measurements when translating recipes from the US to the UK as the UK uses imperial measurements which are different from US measurements . There are also differences in cream fat content and egg sizes . Teaspoons and tablespoons are the same , so do n't worry about them . First , pint measurements , as the UK does n't use cup measurements . The UK pint is 20 % bigger than the US pint , so if you are using UK pints to measure you may be getting ratios wrong . Use Milliliters instead when translating . 1 US Cup is 237ml ( I round up to 240 ) . If you use UK pints as a measure instead of US you wo n't have enough baking powder in the ratio . In fact , I find UK baking powder and bicarb a bit weaker than US powders , so I increase those measurements a bit anyway . What works for me is the first time I make a US recipe in the UK I weigh the dry ingredients and use weights every time I make the recipe after that , I can fine-tune it that way . US light cream is between 10-30 % butter fat , and heavy cream is about 36-40 % . UK single cream is between 10-30 % fat , whipping cream is about 36 % , and double cream is 50 % fat . So if you are right that US heavy cream is UK whipping cream , but mixing 2 parts UK double and 1 part single works just as well as many places do n't stock whipping cream . I doubt that your results come from the cream you are using though , the fat contents are n't that different . One thing that could be different is the flour you use . US and UK flours are n't completely the same . For my biscuits in the UK I buy 00 or purpose milled pastry flour , which is finer and better for pastry than the bog standard stuff . If you ca n't find it pick the flour with the lowest protein content you can find . Hope this helps , let the forum know your results if you can .
As Michael mentioned , a shaken vinaigrette is only going to stay together primarily while you 're shaking it . If it 's been staying together long consider yourself lucky all the other times ... this time was what should be " normal " . The more particulate such as herbs , mustard , spices , etc. that you have in a vinaigrette the quicker it will emulsify and the longer it will stay emulsified . The particles of spice and herbs act as physical barriers that help to interrupt the droplets of oil so that they are n't able to coalesce and come together as they can when you have just oil and vinegar/acid . When doing vinaigrettes by hand using a whisk , start with your acid and add the salt along with anything else , leaving the oil last . Adding salt to the acid component will help it to better dissolve so you get a truer reading on the flavor . When it 's added last as it 's usually written in most recipes : " season to taste with salt and pepper " , the salt usually has n't dissolved by the time you taste it and you 're much more likely to add too much , resulting in a dressing that 's a bit saltier than you might like . The manner in which you drizzle the oil and manner in which you whisk it when doing by hand , are also important factors . When whisking vinagirettes by hand , drizzle the oil form a higher level so that as it hits the bowl you have a finer stream that 's easier to emulsify . Also , use a back and forth " zig-zag " motion rather than a circular whisking motion . The " zig-zag " motion will allow the wires of the whisk to better break up the oil into droplets and emulsify them with the acid . Using a circular motion creates a vortex in the center of the acid where the oil tends to pool , resulting in an oily vinaigrette . The great part of using an immersion blender ( aka stick or wand blender ) is that EVERYTHING can go in at once . Use a container that 's deeper than it is wide ( such as 2 cup liquid measure ) so that there 's plenty of depth for the liquid . Garlic , shallots and herbs can even go in whole . The immersion blender will blend up your garlic , etc. and emulsify the oil with the vinegar . An immersion blender or a standard blender provide you with a the most stable vinaigrette .
Could be an unfinished roux ( the butter , flour mixture ) . But most likely it 's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much , causing the protein to clump up . Suggestions : Melt with less heat Use a double boiler ( to reduce hot spots within the pan ) Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first ( starch helps reduce clumping ) Add cheese in smaller batches ( easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in )
I 've never made Citrus Sugar , but I certainly have made vanilla sugar . Crystaline sugar soaks up the moisture , so if bacteria or mold were to invade the pot , it would be dehydrated quickly and would n't survive , let alone thrive . They need a good bit of moisture to reproduce . I 've never had a problem with my vanilla sugar and it does n't take long for the vanilla beans to turn into little vanilla toothpicks .
You can do anything with this knife that you would do with your santoku or Western-style chef 's knife . These are real tools , and they are not especially delicate . It is certainly possible to chip the edge or tip ( which requires an annoying amount of work to fix ) , if you drop the knife or , as the manufacturer warns , whack it against bones . This is a consequence of the relatively high hardness of your blade -- not of the fact that it 's a gyuto -- but the flip side is that it should retain its edge very nicely for normal work . ( A softer steel would end up with a rolled edge or dent rather than a chip . ) I guess that by " chopping " you mean quickly lifting and pushing the blade down through food so that it hits the cutting board . That 's perfectly normal usage , and a plastic , wood , or rubber cutting board should not hurt your knife at all . ( No glass ! Do run it over a steel it often as you use it , though . ) The foods you mentioned -- potatoes and fruit pits -- may seem hard , but they are much softer than the edge of your knife .
There are lots of theories about this topic . Basically , to get large holes , you want a dough that has enough air to expand greatly , enough structure to support that expansion , and somewhat uneven distribution of the air/structure to produce various size holes . Some things that will help : Relatively high hydration . It 's not strictly necessary , but it allows more random gluten connections to be made , making for a more chaotic internal structure . Hydration needs to be compared to flour gluten content . High gluten is not generally necessary , but a good bread flour will help . Nevertheless , it is possible to produce large holes in short or squat loaves ( baguettes , ciabatta , focaccia ) even with AP flour . The high protein is usually only necessary to get a high-rising loaf . Lower protein flour loaves may still have relatively big holes , but they are more likely to spread rather than rise high when baked free-form . Gentle kneading at the outset . You really only need to mix until ingredients are thoroughly combined and distributed . Extended kneading at that point is not only unnecessary , but it can encourage the initial gluten connections to be really even ( and not the random network of strands and holes ) . Instead of kneading at the outset , do stretch-and-fold maneuvers periodically during the bulk rise . They will add a lot of strength while minimally disturbing the emerging gluten networks . And they will encourage more random connections between each stretch-and-fold maneuver . Do n't skimp on the bulk rise time . This is when the big air bubbles and random gluten networks form . Many people even do this overnight in the fridge or follow the " no knead " bread recipes that just let it sit out for many hours . Do n't " punch down " the dough after the first rise . Instead , your goal is to shape the bread as efficiently as possible without destroying the random network of holes that is present . Contrary to popular belief , you do n't necessarily need to be very gentle with the dough at this phase ( though with some types of bread , like ciabatta , it can help ) . It does n't matter so much if you lose some air , as long as you are stretching the gluten to add structure . So , do n't deliberately try to get air out , but instead focus on stretching and folding over to get a taut , elastic dough in preshaping . Or , be gentle -- the dough may not rise quite as high , but it should still have large holes . If you do lose some air during shaping , do n't skip a bench rest . A bench rest essentially allows another " stretch-and-fold " exercise that adds strength . Preshape the dough until you can feel it become a bit taut . Then cover the dough and wait 10-15 minutes . Then do the final shaping of the dough , being sure that the surface is taut , which will allow the strongest final rise and increase oven spring . Again , as long as your yeast is strong , the big holes will return even if you lose a little air here . In most cases , being gentle and " trying not to disturb the bubbles " will actually result in less of a final rise and therefore smaller bubbles in the final loaf . Use any techniques that will increase oven spring . Anything that gets you a bigger loaf means more room for the bubbles to get bigger . That includes : steaming the oven , baking on a preheated stone , slashing the loaves properly right before the bake , baking on high heat ( at least for the first 10 minutes or so ) , etc. .
The reason that your basting sauce flopped was the recipe was calling for an emulision ( basically , a vinegrette ) and by leaving out the vinegar you are changing the one of the basic building blocks of the dish . The sauce will require that you add the fats to the mustard as it will clump as experienced if you do n't . The mustard in the original recipe is used as an emuslifer and may need to be cut down without the addition of the vinegar . To build a sauce like this , you should start with the vinegar , add the seasonings and any emulisfers ( in this case , the mustard ) and slowly drizzle the fats into the resulting mixture until all has been incorperated . You will still get a smooth sauce as long as you keep the order even if you leave off an ingredient or two .
end question
start question
Is it safe to store batter/dough that contains eggs ?
Of course you can store them in the fridge . When things start to smell bad , you should toss it . From what I remember off hand , every pancake or cornbread batter recipe I 've read says about a week is safe .
<URL> I am ready to mess up with its skin , but if I cut it up totally , the yellow yolk will get lost in the gravy . Yesterday I did an experiment : After properly hard boiling the eggs , I shelled them and cut them into two parts vertically . I fried these sliced eggs on both sides in around 3 ( 6 ml ) spoons oil in a semi circle wok . No , the yolk did n't get lost in the oil . It was all intact in the sliced eggs . I fried all the spices etc. in the wok , and added the water as needed . Now , as a final step , I carefully placed the fried sliced eggs in the same wok [ with the yolk side facing up ] , covered with a lid , and let it boil on simmer gas for some minutes . This time the spices did get inside the egg yolk , and also the yolk was completely intact . Since the eggs are sliced , pressure cooker usage may cause the yolk to dismantle . An open vessel usage is a must in this case . It is also necessary to keep the yolk side facing up when you place the eggs in the curry for the final boil up to keep them intact . <URL>
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
I always let pizza dough rounds rise on a flat surface . A few options : Use plastic wrap or a large bowl covered by towel or plastic , as others have said . The dough can still stick to plastic wrap , but at least you 're not cleaning it off a towel . Invert a bowl over the dough that has a slightly larger diameter than the estimated final diameter of the dough . The dough will likely not dry out much , if at all . Make a proofing box with higher humidity . This is my preferred method . You just need a way to create a somewhat enclosed area of higher humidity . This can generally be accomplished with a cup filled with hot or boiling water initially . Some people use a microwave . ( Place dough in microwave along with cup of hot water . Shut door . Let proof . ) Others use a small oven . If you need more space , you can use an inverted large pan if you have one , or an inverted plastic bin . If you do n't have any of that and want to go really cheap , you can even make a larger box out of a cardboard box -- just tape up the bottom to " seal " very roughly , cut off the top flaps , and invert over your dough , along with the cup of hot water . It wo n't be a " tight seal , " but it will be enough to keep the dough surface moist for a while . ( For a very long proof , you can replace the water periodically as necessary . ) Professional bakers often have climate-controlled areas with higher humidity for these purposes . There are smaller proofing boxes manufactured for home use , though they tend to be quite pricey .
The original pasta recipes of old were simply wheat and water . Eggs or oil ( the two most popular " water substitutes " in pasta recipes ) are not at all necessary to make pasta dough , but they will have an impact on how the dough turns out . Now , it 's hard to give a firm " this is the best way to do it " answer , because everyone has their own preferences on pasta doughs , but you will tend to find that egg-based pastas are a litte more " creamy " than water-based ones . In my experience , they work fairly well for rolling and cutting , but seem to be a little to " sticky " when extruding . When I 've tried it , the dough has had some issues with sticking to the various extruder plates , causing the pasta to tear . Now , I have not tried it myself , but I 've heard that water-based pasta doughs to much better with extruders/presses , because you can control that " stickiness " a little better and make a slightly drier dough , which comes out much more smoothly . I 've been meaning to try it myself , but have not gotten around to it yet ( I really love the flavor of egg pastas , so I tend to just make those and cut them , instead :) ) .
Honey is very stable for a number of reasons . The main ones though are the low amount of water ( most honey is under 18 % water ) and the high amount of sugar ( which is a preservative ) . Both of these things keep things like mold and bacteria from being able to grow . Over a long period of time ( and if left unsealed ) the honey could absorb moisture and then ferment ( the sugar would turn to alcohol ) but if sealed then your honey should be fine for a long time . This PDF from the National Honey board <URL> says that a shelf life of 2 years is often stated . On Chowhound I saw a discussion that said that in the UK the " best by " dates are usually 4 years out so I 'm guessing that those dates have far more to do with decisions by the respective governments ( i.e. laws that state a maximum best by date no matter what the food is ) then the actual shelf life of honey . As the honey in your cupboard , if it 's only a few months or a year old as long as it 's been in a sealed container then it most likely should be fine .
Short answer : storing food in an open can is normally safe for a short period , but inadvisable . Longer answer : There are three main issues with storing foods in an open can . They are metal oxidation , contamination , and funk . Oxidation . As commenters have observed , cans used to be made of tin , which is toxic . Modern cans are made from either steel or aluminum . If the contents of the can are acidic , cans are lined with a polymer ( plastic ) inner layer . If that layer is broken -- say , by a major dent in the can or by using a knife to scrape out contents -- then the acid can get to the metal and , over time , corrode it , and some of the now-oxidized metal will dissolve into the food . As far as we know , the oxidized metal is not toxic , but it tastes horrible . Contamination . Any open container of food can become contaminated when an airborne water droplet ( tiny -- microns wide ) containing a nasty microbe drips or settles into it . The major biological culprit here is Listeria , which can grow in any moist environment , including spaces refrigerated below 40F ( 5C ) . Also , if juices from your raw meat drips onto an upper shelf , which later gets wiped inadvertently into your container of ready-to-eat food , you are likely to get Salmonella or E coli . This risk can be mitigated if you keep your raw meats on the lowest shelf , but not eliminated . Also , it is worth noting that contamination through this pathway is a relatively rare event -- but even so , it is not worth the risk . Funk . Have you ever put an ice cube in your beverage and notice your beverage tastes strange ? The chemical compounds that give food their flavor tend to be volatile ( meaning they will readily leave the food into the surrounding air ) . Also , the mustiness of a refrigerator/freezer is due to volatile compounds produced by mold and mildew . Foods that are wet and/or fatty can be molecular velcro to these compounds .
I probably would not recommend eating a box of baking soda and chasing that with shots of vinegar . But aside from that silliness , I ca n't think of a single thing that is actual " food " that is unsafe mixed with another actual " food " , assuming reasonable quantities . Certainly anything with alcohol can be dangerous in huge quantities , as can a lot of other ingredients . Allergies or food sensitivities can make certain ingredients dangerous to certain people . But mixing ingredients to which the individual has no special sensitivity and in normal quantities ? No , I do n't think you are risking anything by doing so other than unpleasant food .
The recipe appears to be close to a standard Summer Pickle recipe . It 's about a 9 % brine with 3.75 % acetic acid , which should effectively discourage human pathogens . It is not a fermented product . They 're meant to be refrigerated for at most a few months , not stored on some dusty basement shelf . Refrigerated properly , I 'd eat them without concern .
Batter for pancakes is often nicer if it is left in the fridge for a few hours . I 'd make them fresh tonight with the batter you 're making for the couple you want now . Enjoy !
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
Sterno is gelled denatured alcohol . It is denatured alcohol ( a combination of methanol and ethanol ) so that you ca n't , safely , drink it , but it is still mostly alcohol , which will dissolve in water and clean up just fine . While I would n't dump a lot of it down the sink , you should have no problem with cleanup . And while Sterno is n't safe to drink , it wo n't be a problem if you touch it in cleaning up . I just double checked the Sterno site and they confirm water cleanup and say , additionally , that it is biodegradable .
It is almost impossible to reduce the sweetness of cookie dough once made , without further reducing the quality . The closest you could come would be to create a second batch of cookie dough ingredients with reduced sugar , and combine it with your existing dough . However , it will be difficult to achieve good integration of the two batches , and even if you do , the extra working of the first batch from the mixing will create additional gluten , making tougher cookies . In this case , you might want to try some sort of tart lemon glaze or perhaps a very bittersweet chocolate icing to compliment your cookies and reduce the impression of sweetness . On the other hand , except for butter , sugar cookies contain no expensive ingredients . It may not be worth trying to salvage this batch . In the end , this is probably a lesson learned that your particular recipe is not to your liking as is . Next time , you will want to either reduce the sugar , or use another recipe .
No . In most ( all ? ) places that sell chicken eggs in quantity , the eggs are not fertile . For that , there needs to be a rooster involved . The hen that laid your egg does n't hang out with roosters . Your best bet is to acquire a few fertilized eggs from a farmer who keeps chickens . You can also buy fertilized eggs online , just search for " fertilized chicken eggs for sale " .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
Peanut butters that are not " all natural " include cheaper oils along with sugar and emulsifiers to keep the mixture from separating and to make it lighter and smoother . That lack of emulsifiers could make a huge difference but it depends a lot on the recipe . In a normal cookie dough fat is creamed with sugar and eggs are beaten in one at a time which adds a ton of emulsification power from the lecithin in the yolks . Additionally - the fat will bind with the flour and be baked into the cookies . Like Jefromi - I have not had any problem with the fat from natural peanut butter separating out after baking . If you made a cookie dough and either left out the yolks or did n't beat it well enough to properly emulsify - and then let the batter sit out for a while before baking I would fully expect the peanut oil to separate .
Official : No definitive answer , there are different governing bodies and plastic wraps ( cling films ) in the US/Europe . There are also different plastic wraps for different purposes , microwave safe , safe for use with fatty foods , so on . Whether its safe or not will depend on the product used and most likely the time boiled for . The UKs Food Standard Agency <URL> - " Do not use cling films where they may melt into the food , such as in conventional ovens or with pots and pans on cooker hobs " . The cling film industry are understandably much more <URL> . Practical : I 've poached eggs using cling film for ages and I 'm still here . Read the plastic wrap boxes for warnings and choose the plastic wrap that 's most suited . Poach an egg as described <URL> ( as of 2016 , link requires registration to read ) and check if the wrap comes away cleanly , If so you 're good . I 'd revisit this advice if your recipe called for cooking like this for longer than 5-10 minutes , there are likely more suitable products/recipes for extensive boil-in-the-bag manoeuvres .
Are you trying to make Sauerkraut ? Either way for the pink colour you have a non-desirable bacteria growing . While most Sauerkraut has some of this , it is not always safe to eat . Time to throw it away ? If you salt cabbage , you need to ensure not too much salt is used ( 1 % to 2 % max ) , and make sure it is packed down very firmly , so only anaerobic bacteria will grow in any numbers It does n't need to be in a closed container , but it should have a firm fitting lid , without an air gap on the top Also , once it goes past 20 ° C ( 70 ° F ) you run the risk of getting other undesirable bacteria and yeasts , and general food rot
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
Taken out of context , that does n't make much sense , but I can think of several similar claims you might have heard - all of which are true and most can be found on the <URL> and the sites of most other agencies : Perishable food should not be left in the " danger zone " ( 4.4 ° C - 60 ° C or 40 ° F to 140 ° F ) ( room temperature ) for more than a total of 2 hours ; 1 hour if the temperature is above 32 ° C / 90 ° F ( mouth/gut temperature ) . Freezing does not reset this countdown , it only stops it temporarily . Thus , it is not a safe practice to thaw and refreeze food several times ( especially if it 's being brought above refrigerator temperatures ) . Cooking does reset the countdown , but unless you are in a completely sterile environment ( hint : you are n't ) , you still have to keep food out of the danger zone after cooking , which is why guidelines say to refrigerate within 2 hours . Most people reheat their food to " warm " or even " hot " but not cooking temperature . Unless you reheat to an internal temperature of 74 ° C / 165 ° F , then all that time in the danger zone after cooking is cumulative . So if you do what most people do and reheat food to 40 ° -50 ° C , a nice comfortable eating temperature , then you 'd better either ( a ) only reheat the portion you plan to eat , and/or ( b ) throw out any uneaten portion instead of putting it back in the fridge . Really it 's all about the cumulative amount of time , since being fully cooked , that the food has spent in the danger zone . Theoretically , if you boiled the same piece of chicken every 12 hours and quick-froze it immediately afterward , it would stay safe indefinitely . It would also have no flavour or texture left , so I do n't recommend it . Since most people do n't carefully measure the internal temperature of food when they reheat it , we have the " best practice " of only reheating perishable food once after it 's been cooked , because otherwise it gets really hard to estimate how much time is left on that metaphorical clock . And , obviously , do n't leave it in the fridge for more than a few days , because it can still spoil in there , just slower .
end question
start question
What accounts for the softer texture and sharper flavor of Italian ice creams ?
There are several major factors that affect the texture of ice cream or gelato in the absence of stabilizers or gums : Air mixed in during the churning essentially creates a foam , which is softer than a solid product would be . While this air may be only 10 % by volume , it makes a huge difference in texture . The churning and rapid freezing also minimizes the size of ice crystals , so the non-air phase is essentially a syrup of sugary water with emulsified milk fat , with very small ice crystals suspended in it . Since it is not solid , it is easier to cut . The serving temperature for gelato I believe is traditionally warmer than the serving temperature of ice cream , which provides a softer texture ( more syrup , less ice ) allows the flavors to be perceived more easily as they are more aromatic at warmer temperatures . The gelato may contain ingredients with alcohol , such as Franglico in a hazelnut gelato ; this contributes a small anti-freeze effect . Similarly , the pectins from some fruit ingredients will also naturally interfere with ice crystal formation -- but these influences are specific to a given recipe . The lower milkfat percentage makes the flavors in the gelato more apparent , since they are not drowned out by the richness of the diary .
Uncooked ? I was shocked at how unimpressive the flavor of raw shaved truffle was . It was kind of earthy , not particularly strong in flavor ; in this case the truffle was probably not fresh enough . When heated and allowed to release their full flavor and aroma into food though , they are phenomenal . There 's a rich , luscious taste and smell , with an almost petrol pungency to it . The latter is primarily from the 2,4-dithiapentane , which truffle oil replicates , although it has a harsher and less complex flavor . Truffle oil will give you this top note , but without any of the additional layered complexity . All this said , different people have different reactions , and freshness matters greatly for raw truffles . If you really want to try truffle , canned or jarred truffle can be had in small quantities for under $ 20 . The flavor is quite distinctive , unique , and pairs well with cream , milk , cheese , and butter .
Yes , it makes it less flavorful . That does n't necessarily mean it 's a bad idea . Often it 'll still be plenty flavorful even with a decent amount of ice in it . So by using ice , you save the trouble of having to freeze some ingredients first , and do n't go through your fruit quite as fast . You can avoid having to keep fruit juice on hand . It also lets you pretty easily control exactly how cold/icy you want the smoothie . If you live in a hot area , smoothies with a decent amount of ice are actually pretty nice - they stay cold much longer , and the icy graininess can make them more refreshing . I 'm sure plenty of people would never dream of using ice and some people do all the time ; feel free to go on doing whichever suits you ! ( I 'm originally from Texas , and honestly , in addition to blending some ice in , I used to put whole ice cubes in after blending just to make extra sure it stayed cold . ) For a helpful comparison : a lot of really good sorbet recipes use a decent amount of water . For example , David Lebovitz 's mango sorbet ( from The Perfect Scoop ) uses two large mangoes and 2/3 cup of water . Sure , it could use some kind of fruit juice instead , but I promise , it really really tastes like mango , and does n't taste watered down at all .
Mainly the grind types have to do with how long the grounds are going to be in contact with the water during the brewing of the coffee . Finer grinds for espresso ( quick brewing ) and medium grinds for drip , etc. . This chart will give you an idea of what grinds go with which preparations <URL>
Almost any normal sorbet recipe will contain a decent amount of sugar , and strawberries are no exception . I 'd guess probably 1/2 -2 / 3 cup per pound of strawberries . Use a substitute if you have an aversion - honey , agave , raw cane sugar , whatever you prefer . ( Of course , anything liquid is going to contain some water , and cause a bit of ice , but it 's still doable . ) A sorbet without any extra sugar , even when frozen normally in an ice cream maker , is going to end up with a very icy texture , which will probably keep you from experiencing the flavor as much . The sugar helps soften it . The other common way to soften a sorbet is alcohol . Rosé wine ( thank you , David Lebovitz ) works quite well in a strawberry sorbet . Vodka can be your go-to liquor for any impromptu sorbet with other fruits , since it 'll add alcohol without any flavors that clash . Beyond that , either look for recipes , or look for mixed drinks containing the fruit you 're using . You might also be having problems simply because your strawberries are n't that great . Did you freeze them , or were they storebought ? If you bought the strawberries yourself , you 'd know they were decent before freezing , while not all storebought frozen fruit is as flavorful . Finally , it 's possible that your frozen strawberries collected some extra water in the form of frost , which then makes your sorbet icier . If there are obvious big chunks you could scrape them off .
I have made marshmallows using <URL> ; it works and is a lot of fun . If you do n't form the individual marshmallows , but just swirl it into the ice cream while it 's still a sticky mess , that should work for your swirl . There is even a video in that link . As ElendilTheTall mentioned in comments , you probably should reduce the amount of gelatin in Alton 's recipe , perhaps by a third , to get a good swirl .
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
My kids love a similar recipe , but they also like them softer . What I do is reducing the second baking time by half . Be aware that the shelf life of the biscotti is also reduced ! ... Not a problem in my case since they do n't survive more than two days ... Edit <URL> Though modern biscotti are associated with the Tuscan region of Italy , the popular Italian cookie traces its origins to Roman times . The word biscotto derives from " bis , " Latin for twice , and " coctum " or baked ( which became " cotto , " or cooked ) . The Roman biscotti were more about convenience food for travelers rather than a pleasurable treat for leisurely diners . Unleavened , finger-shaped wafers were baked first to cook them , then a second time to completely dry them out , making them durable for travel and nourishment for the long journeys -- Pliny boasted that they would be edible for centuries . Biscotti were a staple of the diet of the Roman Legions . After the fall of the Roman Empire in 455 C.E , the country was repeatedly sacked by the Visigoths , the Vandals and others . The people did their best to survive ; there was no culinary development . But with the Renaissance , cuisine also flowered . Biscotti re-emerged in Tuscany , credited to a Tuscan baker who served them with the local sweet wine . Their dry , crunchy texture was deemed to be the perfect medium to soak up the wine ( and how much more flavorful than dunking a donut in coffee ! ) . Centuries later , many still agree that dipping biscotti into Vin Santo is a perfect way to end a meal , or to while away an hour at a café .
Your filling is basically a beef stew/casserole , so any cuts that suite long slow cooking are fine . They get cooked again while the pie is baked , so premium cuts will just be wasted The lower grade and ' off cut ' parts are what are most commonly used . Like rump , brisket , chuck , shank , neck etc Using a bench top slow cooker makes cooking this all very easy . The beef needs to be fully cooked before making the pie . An eight hour slow cook is fine You want the pieces to be a variety of sizes to fill out the pie shape , but make sure you have some at least the height of the pie filling . The larger pieces tend to be better , but that could be a matter of taste and culture You need to get rid of plenty of fat before and after cooking . A mouth full of fat in a pie is not nice . There is already plenty of fat in the gravy and pastry , so trim off all you can A good meat pie should have a solid layer of meat connected with gravy , not swimming . It should also not be so full as you ca n't eat it with your hands ( for a single serve pie ) without loosing half the contents Puff/flakey pastry works best and holds everything together Avoid overly strong flavoured gravies , you do n't want to hide the beef and pastry taste Before you attach the lid , place a slice of tasty cheese , or an extra generous serving of cracked pepper on top of the filling A respectable pie looks like this - thanks to Ponsonby Pies ( not made in Ponsonby anymore )
I 'm going to step out on a limb here and declare that you 'll need to add more of the other ingredients . Even then , you 're likely to throw off the overall balance of flavors because they have not all cooked together . Here 's a <URL> that suggests there are about 6 compounds that primarily contribute to the flavor and aroma of celery . However , as a home cook , I have no idea what any of these are or how to suppress them specifically . It may be possible to do so , but that solution is likely to be impractical for the home chef . Another problem is that celery has a very flavor-enhancing effect ; this is why it shows up so often in traditional vegetable bases like <URL> and <URL> . Here 's another <URL> summarizing a paper that identified the specific compounds responsible for this ; the odd thing is that these " phthalides " are largely tasteless . In short : the balance and overall tastiness of your soup might have been reached specifically by adding so much celery . I think you 're going to have to chalk this one up as a learning experience and adjust your recipe next time . One thing you could try ( if you 're not already , which would surprise me a little ) is <URL> the celery . I find that this makes the flavor overall a bit milder , with less of the vegetal-bitter flavors while still getting the umami-enhancing effect .
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
Any kind of flavoring , really , so long as the application will accept a syrup substance . They make killer milkshakes / malts . Add them to all kinds of desserts , beverages . I 've occasionally replaced extracts and granulated sugar in a recipe with a flavored syrup but you have to experiment with the right combinations as this tends to either overpower the dish with flavor or not make it as sweet .
From a food safety perspective , the most important thing is that you get your leftovers cooled as quickly as possible , so that they do n't spend too long in the <URL> . This can be tricky , because you essentially have to move from cooking temperatures to refrigerated temperatures within two hours ( generally less because the time is cumulative , and includes time that the ingredients spent in the danger zone before you cooked them ) . Here 's what I do at home : Separate into smaller portions . For me , this usually means individual servings , but you can package 2-3 servings together ; the point is to avoid having a single large mass of food . I do this for a couple of reasons . First , it makes reheating convenient ; rather than heating up more portions than you 're going to be eating , or scooping out a single portion for separate reheating ( dirtying some extra dishware in the process ) you can simply grab as many portions as desired and go . Second , by separating the portions you are increasing their surface area , and therefore how quickly they will cool ( another reason I like individual servings is that it maximizes this effect ) . This is a basic trick from my restaurant days ; experienced professional cooks will know that to cool a large batch of soup safely , you need to either get the whole thing into an ice bath , or break it down into smaller portions . ( A thrifty tip here : you can use dedicated plastic or Pyrex food storage containers , but commercial containers are cheap and effective as well . There are all kinds of <URL> and <URL> containers intended for food service that are microwave-safe and which can be safely cleaned in the dishwasher . You 'll often have to buy them in bulk , but per piece they 're very inexpensive , they tend to stack very well , and if you 're lucky you can find a decent local takeaway or delivery place that uses them instead of styrofoam . Save whatever you get , wash them , and reuse . It 's possible to ruin these with excessive heat , but they 're so cheap that it 's not too much of a loss . ) Allow to cool on the counter , uncovered , for 10-20 minutes . The goal here is simply to let steam escape ; water carries a lot of thermal energy with it ( which is why you can easily burn yourself over a pot of boiling water ) and letting it get away will cool your food rapidly . The portions do n't need to cool completely at this point ; if they 're warm but no longer actively steaming , that 's fine . Put the portions in the refrigerator . As @Jefromi notes in comments , <URL> , and a lower external temperature will help your portions cool quickly and safely . Where possible , it 's ideal to leave these uncovered and spread out into a single layer so that they will cool quickly . Quite honestly , this is n't always practical , so if you need to cover and stack the portions due to space constraints , cool them a little longer on the counter before putting them into the fridge . Freeze the portions if you 'll be storing them for more than a couple of days . <URL> ; if you need to keep them beyond that , the freezer is your friend . This does n't work well for everything , but hearty foods like pastas will often freeze reasonably well . Reheat thoroughly in the microwave . For all that serious cooks might discount the microwave , it 's a very effective and efficient reheating device . ( Especially if you follow my advice about using microwave-safe plastic containers ; if you use something like Pyrex that 's oven-safe , you could certainly use that too . ) Make sure you heat everything so that it 's evenly hot ; this may mean stirring a couple of times . Overall , it 's most definitely possible to safely store leftovers , so long as you cool them quickly and reheat them thoroughly . Not only that , but I heartily endorse the practice . Leftovers can be practical , tasty , and a serious time saver . There 's no reason to be paranoid about them if you embrace a few simple rules .
Yes , there are two different meanings of taste , as you already mentioned . One is the salty-sweet-etc . multidimensional space of sensory perceptions felt with the mucous membranes of the mouth ( many authors add astringency and pungency/hotness , which are not felt by the tastebuds themselves ) , and the other is the overall impression of the food . The overall impression includes also the aroma - citric acid and acetic acid in a solution at the same pH level are both equally sour , but you can tell them apart by aroma - and the texture . An example for the texture would be to try confectioner 's sugar and pure rock candy - both are 100 % sucrose , so have the same narrow-meaning-taste ( sensory perception of sweetness ) , and both have the same aroma ( provided they are produced from the same plant at the same degree of refinement , which is often the case with white sugar ) , but your overall feel of them ( taste in the broader sense ) will be entirely different due to the different texture . Taste in the narrow sense can also be slightly different with different texture , due to the difference in availability of the taste-creating chemicals to the taste buds ( and to the rest of the mucous membrane ) . The obvious difference comes with density . Cotton candy does not feel as overpoweringly sweet as the same volume of table sugar , because it is mostly air and does n't trigger as many taste buds at once as the sugar . This is a difference in the strength of taste , not in the taste profile - cotton candy does n't start tasting more-salty-than-sweet due to the different density , it just tastes less sweet . Another thing which might happen to taste is that the structure which creates the different structure isolates some of the taste-causing molecules from the taste buds . I know from experience that this happens with aroma . Adding xanthan gum to food reduces its aroma , I assume that it traps the volatile molecules which would normally reach the olfactory sensory cells . But if it does reduce the taste too , it does n't do so in the same proportion , as there is much more taste left than smell . If somebody knows for sure that it reduces the strength of taste too , I would like to see conclusive information on it ; I only include it here as a hypothesis . Summary , texture changes taste in both the narrow and broad sense . It does so more strongly for the broad sense , which is the one most people care for .
Chocolate is in is most essential form made up of cocoa butter and cocoa solids . The chocolate you buy is tempered , the crystals in the cocoa butter are aligned and properly formed , this is what keeps it shiny and gives it a snap . When the chocolate melts , without tempering , in the cookie the crystals in the cocoa butter melt but do not form properly again , this means the chocolate becomes soft , dull and ' blooms ' fat which is where the cocoa butter rises to the surfaces forming a white layer ( this will disappear upon melting ) . Also in a cookie there will be a high proportion of fat and when the chocolate melts it combines with the fats ( in the butter ) and will create essentially pockets of chocolate glaze , which obviously does n't set hard .
You can kind of knead them a little with your hand . Just roll them on the board to break up the " fibers "
As a vegetarian , I regularly try to compensate for the lack of meat in a normally meat-containing dish using a number of methods , though I feel none can truly replace the addition of meat perfectly . In my experience , duplicating the effects of the addition of meat to a dish requires considering individually the effects the addition would have . First I 'll address the fat added . Since the lard present in bacon is high in saturated fats , you can attempt to duplicate that using vegetable oils that are high in saturated fats , like hard margarine or palm oil . While I would n't normally advocate with using an oil specifically because it has higher saturated fat content ( for health reasons ) , in this case it will likely help the quality of the finished greens . Consider using a smaller proportion of the more saturated fats by adding in a lighter/healthier oil , like canola or grapeseed , as a portion of the added fat . There is no single rule for getting the fat content of a dish like this right , and it 's often a matter of taste . The smokiness added by the bacon is also a consideration . While liquid smoke could work , the volatility of the product can contribute to the flavor getting poorly concentrated in the food . I have had good results with both smoked salt and smoked black pepper in concentrating smokiness in a dish , and I have found that adding either more near the end of cooking encourages the flavor to be retained more prominently . For the savoriness added by the aminos in the pork , there is a wide variety of vegan options for its substitution . A good place to start , in my opinion , is to use a vegan not-meat bouillon ( e.g. from <URL> ) as the base of the broth . The addition of nutritive yeast ( and to a lesser extent mushrooms ) can also help infuse the broth with umami , and is a common ingredient in vegan broth preparations . If desired , the addition of liquid aminos ( e.g. <URL> ) , and/or MSG can help further improve the savoriness of the greens . For the texture added by the bacon itself your intuition of using TVP or vegan bacon is likely the way to go . While neither adds much flavor itself ( vegan bacon being far more mellow in its baconiness ) , they are probably your best bet for duplicating a meaty texture .
After creating a new batch using the same process as my first one , but with a different , non-Greek , starter yogurt ( which uses a different set and balance of bacteria than the starter I used for my first batch ) , I found that the texture was the same as my starter yogurt and was without the pithy texture . Therefore , it seems that it is , in fact , the difference in fermentation , which depends on the types of bacteria cultures in a given yogurt that determine the texture of Greek vs non-Greek yogurt .
Because you are frying at a lower temperature , the food is closer to it 's natural state ( no browning ) and is less cooked . That coupled with the significant drop in moisture , you are concentrating the flavor of the food ( just like syrup , only with solid food ) . It 's also typically done with food that is more susceptable to burning , foods with higher sugar contents , so you are often left with a sweeter product .
Since you say French-style ice cream works fine , but the gelato is freezing rock hard , I suspect the problem may simply be the serving temperature . Gelato needs to be served at a warmer temperature than ice cream . Unfortunately the temperatures I 've found are pretty variable ( some say 5F , some say 10-20F ) , but everyone consistently says gelato needs a higher temperature than ice cream . So just try taking it out of the freezer 15 minutes before you want to serve . If you do n't want to do that , then actual gelato recipes probably wo n't work well , and you 'll have to modify them . You can try some of the usual tricks for softening ice cream : <URL> . But keep in mind that they may cause you to stray a bit from the original gelato flavor or texture !
end question
start question
What are these little crystals in my Cheese ?
To quote On Food and Cooking ( Harold McGee ) , page 63 , about crystals in Cheddar : In aged Cheddar , there are often crystals of calcium lactate , formed when ripening bacteria convert the usual form of lactic acid into its less soluble mirror ( " D " ) image . In blue cheeses : The white crystals often visible against the blue mold of a Roquefort , or detectable in the rind of a Camembert , are calcium phosphate , deposited because the Penicillium molds have made the cheese less acid , and calcium salts less soluble . And , in other aged cheeses : In Parmesan , Gruyere , and aged Gouda , the crystals may be calcium lactate or else tyrosine , an amino acid produced by protein breakdown that has limited solubility in these low-moisture cheeses . So , basically there are a variety of salts present in the milk , and formed from milk by the action of bacteria and molds . As the cheese dries , and ripening micro-organisms act on the cheese , these salts fall out of the solution and crystallize . Personally , I love the slight crystalline texture present in aged cheeses , as it almost always comes with a robust and mature flavor .
Yes , recipes need to be changed as well . The most important [ IMHO ] difference is leavening ( yeast/baking powder/soda etc. ) The next issue is ratios , once you get beyond ' doubling ' a home recipe your ratios will get out of sync . When you multiply dry ingredients ( other than yeast ) do so By Weight rather than dry measure . ( note for sugars in a yeast leavened recipe : sugar is often ' treated as ' a ' wet ingredient ' , still multiply by weight , this will provide the correct amount of food for the yeast ) Rule of thumb for yeast baking is to multiply everything but DO NOT multiply the yeast for doing 2X or 4X . When you are increasing the recipe by 8X you double the original amount of yeast . Your rising time may increase but that also happens with temperature variations . Rule of thumb for chemical leavening is to multiply carefully ALL ingredients . If using baking soda and acid , sift the baking soda with flour and mix the acid ( vinegar , lemon juice , sour milk ) with other liquid ingredients . That way you do n't lose rising power when mixing more dough . But for chemical leavening , you have to bake the mix without it sitting around . So you might weigh and set up 4X , 4X , 4X if you need 12X yield . [ from <URL> Home sized recipes can usually only be doubled safely . Beyond that , due to rounding , the ratios within the recipe will get out of sync . We have a number of pro resources here , take a look : <URL> ( <URL> ) These are , obviously , only ' general guidelines , your mileage may vary with any given recipe .
Some <URL> produce pink or white seeds so yours sounds perfectly normal . I have had white seeds and they are as delicious as the red ones . Go for it .
It is almost certainly safe unless it was left out at warm temperatures to spoil , or has molded , or otherwise spoiled in a manner not directly related to being uncovered . It may , however , be unpalatable due to : Drying out Picking up flavors or odors from other items in the refrigerator Since you are eating it relatively quickly , if you are not experiencing these issues , your practice should be just fine . My own personal preferred method is to put my cheese chunks in a zip lock type bag , which substantially cuts down on the drying , especially for moister cheeses like mozzarella or semi-firm cheddar .
Good Answer Hobodave ... tacking onto that : Most southern U.S. brands ( White Lily , Martha White ) of all-purpose flour are bleached because southerners tend to make more quick breads ( biscuits , cornbread , hoecakes , pancakes , as well as cakes , pie crusts , cobblers ) where tenderness is desired . White Lily has just started producing unbleached all-purpose flour as well . Brands from the Northeast ( King Arthur ) and midwest are usually unbleached because those regions tend to make more yeast breads and the additional gluten forming capability of unbleached flour produces better results . National U.S. brands ( Pillsbury/Gold Medal ) often produce both types or stick with unbleached . Cake flour is always bleached ( usually chlorine gas ) . More information on differences in types of flour can be found in my article titled <URL>
Citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate are often used in processed cheese as emulsifier . These <URL> improve the protein 's swelling capacity and emulsification and thus inhibits the leakage of water or fat from the product ( forms <URL> ) . Some salts are also acid buffers . 1 In this <URL> ( in German , but chemical names are quite similiar to the Engish ones ) is a list of possible substitutes of citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate . Or just look <URL> ( in English ) for E 325 , E 326 , E 327 , E 331 , E 332 , E 333 , E 339 , E 340 , E 341 , E 450 , E 451 , E 452 . The receipe of the cheese sauce has the <URL> 2 . 1 Source : <URL> My bad attempt to translate this article :-\ 2 " Processed cheese [ ... ] is a food product made from cheese ( and sometimes other , unfermented , dairy by-product ingredients ) ; plus emulsifiers [ note from me : the mentioned salts ] , saturated vegetable oils , extra salt , food colorings , and/or whey [ note from me : or watery liquids like water or milk ] or sugar . "
Real cheese crackers are always going to be a little greasy . You can reduce this by using a lower fat cheese like mozzarella . I think you 'd benefit by adding some flour to absorb some of the oil . Try starting with a 1/4 to 1/3 ratio of flour to cheese . From what I understand , whole wheat , whole grain , and oat flour are much more friendly to diabetics . You could even try something exotic like mesquite or yellow pea flour .
The cheeses that just plain wo n't work in the fridge are those that make use of bacteria or mold with " special needs " . Swiss , camembert , and any blue cheese come to mind . The bacteria that produce the holes in Swiss need specific , relatively warm , temps for specific times . Likewise the molds on the rinds or through blue cheeses need warmer but still cooler than room temperature . Most semi-firm to firm cheeses can be aged just fine in a fridge . Many generic cheese recipes such as : <URL> or <URL> either say to age in the fridge or do n't give a temperature at all and just say " age in a cool place " . In particular cheddar or gouda like cheeses age just fine in the fridge . Parmesan should also work but I personally have n't had the patience to wait the year necessary to try it . Of course if generic-cheddar-like cheese is n't good enough and you want to recreate some particular cheddar that will be harder . Those recipes usually call for something like " Age for 6 months in this particular cave in France " . As for room temperature . I do n't know . Room temperature at my house is 80F and no cheese will work with that .
Usually that would mean potatoes that have been simmered to fork tender , but you could use potatoes that have been baked too . It 's faster to dice the potato before simmering , but for some things it actually tastes better ( tiny difference ) to simmer first , then dice . Be careful if you dice first , they will overcook and become waterlogged quickly . If the recipe does n't specify , you can use peeled or unpeeled potatoes . I almost always prefer scrubbed , unpeeled potatoes . Do n't forget to salt the water ! EDIT : One more little note . 1/4 inch dice is small for simmering potatoes . If you do it that way , get them out of the water just before they are completely tender , carry-over cooking will get them the rest of the way . You might also want to rinse them in cold water to stop the cooking .
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
Put the meat in a sealed plastic bag , place in a bowl in the sink , fill with cold tapwater , then set the tap running in a thin stream with the water overflowing the sides of the bowl . The moving water will safely thaw the meat through convection . Make sure you get as much air out of the plastic bag as you can . You might need to put some weight on it in the bowl to keep it submerged in the water .
My guess is that you do n't have real cheese in your sandwich . I 've seen this before with things called cheese that were really types of <URL> . It happened when then product was exposed to moisture that it seemed to absorb , which then caused it to turn soggy and glue-like . If you 'd have said that you had tomato in your sandwich , I 'd have been sure this was what was going on .
Could be an unfinished roux ( the butter , flour mixture ) . But most likely it 's because the cheese was heated too quickly or too much , causing the protein to clump up . Suggestions : Melt with less heat Use a double boiler ( to reduce hot spots within the pan ) Toss the shredded cheddar with cornstarch first ( starch helps reduce clumping ) Add cheese in smaller batches ( easier to maintain correct heat level and stir cheese in )
As for judging crumb , my favorite two terms used by German Meister Bakers are juicy ( saftig ) and woolly ( wollig ) . The first , praise for tarter breads such as sour rye ; the second for toast bread and lunch rolls . An unflattering term would be cotton ( Baumwolle ) for flavorless and dry fluff .
It 's a personal preference . It 's certainly edible , and it wo n't hurt you . I find the texture a little weird . Generally you can eat the rind of almost any cheese . However , make sure you 're not mistaking a wax coating for rind .
Without seeing the result and knowing your exact technique , my best guess is that you 're not using enough liquid , or that you 're using heat that 's too high . High heat will essentially fry the onions , like you would expect by dropping chicken or potatoes into a pan full of hot oil . Properly caramelized onions should take at least 20 to 30 minutes , I try to go for an hour whenever time permits . I actually stir as little as I can without allowing them to sit long enough to burn . Over-stirring should n't be a problem ; under-stirring may be . To start , you want the bottom of the pan to be covered with a thin layer of oil , and then make sure you stir the onions very well to coat them completely right after you toss them in . Begin with the pan on medium-high heat to get the oil up to temperature , once it ripples and you put the onions in you can lower it quite a bit . I rarely put it above 5 ( out of 10 , glass-top stove ) , and if I see things going crispy , I 'll often drop it to 4 . I 'd rather take more time and have softer onions . Are you adding any liquid along the way ? Sometime , when doing large batches , 15 minutes in I find that I do n't have enough oil in the pan , and I can see them starting to crisp up a bit more than I 'd like . When that happens , lower the heat a notch , and add a touch more oil ( or , as I prefer , a cube of homemade stock ) to the pan . It 'll take some practice , but eventually you 'll be able to know how much liquid to use instinctively . The reason I prefer stock for my " second add " is because I know the stock will evaporate off , as mentioned in the question you linked to , you do n't want to be pouring off flavor at the end of the cooking time , so evaporation is a good thing ! If you 're using cast iron , I recommend trying stainless steel , I get much better results with the latter than the former . I 'd guess that it 's because I can dynamically regulate the temperature better with the stainless steel - with cast iron , once you realize you 're at too high of a temperature , it 's hard to lower it quickly . If you need a step by step guide to start you off until you get a feel for everything , there is a great guide <URL> and another <URL> . The difference is that one recommends 1 teaspoon of oil per onion ; the other uses 3 tablespoons per onion . I find that for my kitchen , it 's somewhere in the middle ( I just eyeball so I ca n't give you an exact number , unfortunately ) - but if you try both methods on your stovetop you should be able to use that data to determine the right amount for you .
The generic term for sugar-water pastes used to decorate food is <URL> . Rollfondant sounds like ready-to-roll icing , but it could be <URL> , which contains egg white . Modellierfondant sounds like modelling paste . There are various recipes which use different additives to the core ingredients of sugar and water in order to obtain a suitable consistency and to dry without cracking .
DO I has to ? Nobody learned it ? Garum , a fermented sauce made with anchovies as the principal ingredient , was the Romans ' legacy to Britain when they left GB for home . They put the stuff in everything - Roman Fricassee of Dormouse would be naturally adorned with garum , Roman asparagus would have to be served with garum ... There was a sauce , Worcester sauce , that had disputed origins - but was obviously based on an English version of garum , . So there was a historic Dickensian precedent a la Jarndyce v Jarndyce between Lea and Perrins , who sold Worcestershire sauce to avoid argument , and Hammonds of Bradford who sold something very similar marked " Yorkshire Relish " , which they acquired when they bought Goodall , Backhouse of Leeds . What happened was that Hammonds won , in that for a brief period they sold WORCESTER sauce without dispute about the name , instead of calling it Yorkshire Relish . Just after that they were taken over by some multinational who did n't give a tinker 's cuss about that valuable TM , just the market share . Some brands , including Yorkshire Relish , were sold to an Irish company who are still making the " thick " Yorkshire Relish brown sauce in Ireland , but not the " thin " version we are discussing here . Lea and Perrins are still selling Worcestershire sauce . The Hammonds Sauceworks brass band are still performing , although the factory produces no Yorkshire Relish . There is a factory somewhere producing Henderson 's Relish , which is very similar to Worcester sauce , but made in Sheffield with no Garum - never seen an anchovy . At least Lea and Perrins still produce the closest thing to a traditional product which goes back 2,000 years . Whatever they do with the anchovies , that component is said to be left for three years to mature .
Non-sweetened almond milk is probably what most people on low carb diets drink , when they drink it . It has < 1g of carb per cup . Personally , I completely stopped drinking milk because of carbs years ago and I do n't look back . I only drink a little bit of half and half with coffee , and even though it still has carbs , it 's so little that it makes little difference .
I believe that if you cut/scrape off the mold the rest will be fine . With a huge chunk of wrapped and refrigerated parmigiano reggiano , for example , I have been scraping it off before grating it for over 18 months now with no ill effects .
end question
start question
Can I make cakes in a tagine ?
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
Sucanat or turbinado sugar ( Sugar in the Raw ) would be pretty indistinguishable from blond cane sugar . One of them might actually even be the same thing under a different name . <URL> <URL> Here 's a bit more about the subtle differences between sucanat and turbinado . <URL> Here ya go , from Amazon UK <URL> Also from Amazon UK <URL> And one more <URL>
I do n't believe you would want to try to leaven bread with beer only , though you could certainly use it as a flavoring . First , the amount of yeast still present in a brewed batch of beer is very low . Beers that have been <URL> ( or bottle conditioned ) will have more than others but , particularly with high gravity beers ( beers with a lot of alcohol ) , a lot of the yeast has died due to the alcohol content or been removed by the manufacturer to clarify the brew ( yeasts make beer cloudy ) . Plus , beer yeast and bread yeast are very different things : From the info <URL> : Different strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae produce different proportions of carbon dioxide and alcohol . Baker 's yeast is a blend of several strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chosen for their flavor and ability to make carbon dioxide , which causes bread to rise . Brewer 's yeast is made of strains chosen for their alcohol-producing ability and tends to have a bitter flavor . Brewer 's yeast is considered an inactive yeast while baker 's yeast is an active yeast . In an active yeast the yeast cells are still alive , whereas they are killed in the process of making inactive yeasts , like brewer 's yeast . Brewer 's yeast is used to brew homemade wines and beers , while baker 's yeast makes bread rise . You ca n't brew alcohol with baker 's yeast and you ca n't leaven bread with brewer 's yeast .
I 've sometimes made small reductions in the microwave . Just put the liquid in a much deeper container than it fits in so it does n't make a mess , and run it on 50 % power , check every 30 seconds or so until it is reduced to the degree you need .
In general , it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe , if you 're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question . It 's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you 've added too much . Assuming you are reading this because you did n't do that , and have now ended up with a sauce that 's far too spicy , then read on . The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from ? There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation . In most dishes they 'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following : <URL> , which is the active alkaloid in black pepper . This has poor solubility in water , however , it has better solubility in alcohol . If you can incorporate wine or better yet , brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol , this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper . <URL> , the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers , is the highest on the <URL> ; extremely piquant and can produce a " burning " sensation in very small quantities . It is also poorly soluble in water , but is far more soluble in fat , especially oils . Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat . Garlic , onion , and other members of the <URL> family put out a volatile sulfur compound called <URL> . Although this is not " spicy " in the same sense as pepper , many people perceive it as such . Like piperine , it is more soluble in alcohol than in water . However , and here 's the catch : That allicin breaks down into various <URL> when cooked , and those polysulfides are fat soluble . So if you 're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour , it 's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases . If you 've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you 're dealing with <URL> and <URL> , the latter of which pack a much bigger punch . One of the things you can actually do with ginger is <URL> which converts those into much milder <URL> . In other words , add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you 'll lose some flavour but in the process you 'll break down the ginger spice . Alternatively ( for ginger ) , all of the above compounds are alkali soluble , so if you add a buffering agent - say , <URL> ( additive E331 ) , it will improve the solubility a great deal . If , like most people , you do n't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen , you can try using something like baking soda , but too much of that will completely ruin the taste , so be careful . In fact , do n't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor . I think that about covers it for common " spicy stuff " that goes in sauces . If you want to fix a dish that 's too spicy , you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what 's most appropriate for that particular sauce . You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet , for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar . That will not eliminate the heat at all , but does seem to make it more tolerable for many .
Flour labeled as Cake flour usually is weak flour : low value , or less formally " low protein " or " fewer gluten " . This is somehow weird , as some cakes will require weak flour , whether others nedd strong flour ( for yeasted dough cakes , if they add lots of fat/oil to the dough , if they add lots of sugar , pieces of fruits/nuts , etc ) . I specifically do n't know whether Maida is strong or weak flour , despite <URL> . Wheat plants has been selected for several milleniums to get more productive varieties , and , yes , grains that give stronger flour . Substitutes as weak flour Trying to get flour from a more " primitive " variety of wheat , such as <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . These are expensive where I live , and usually sold as bio , but maybe spelt is easily found in India . As they have not been so " genetically selected " , they still have less gluten than today 's " normal " flour . They also tend to have more and better taste than " normal " flour . Another flour with low gluten content is rye . It has a different taste than wheat , but I thing it fits really well with cakes . This grain grows better in colder climates , so I 'm not very sure how hard will it be to get it where you live . Other flours , as rice or corn / maize have no gluten . It means gas bubbles wo n't be trapped in , and will result in a much too dense crumb . You might search some gluten-free bread tricks to solve this . Substitutes as strong flour Any bread flour will probably work . Maybe it wo n't rise as much and you 'll get a crumb with a denser consistency , more similar to a " chewing gum " than a " soft cake " . But if you are ok with this , you can go on . Note ( Thank to @Anisha for the suggestion ) : Notice that different flours have different absorption , so some readjustment on hydration should probably be made to the original recipe .
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
The most common methods to create chocolate coated ice cream bars , with or without a stick are to : Use truly tempered chocolate , which may be more trouble than it is worth Use a mixture of chocolate thinned with vegetable oil . See for example , this recipe from <URL> .
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
I make steel cut oats in a slow cooker , stick them in the fridge and then slice off a chunk to eat each day . In a slow cooker add 2 cups steel cut oats 8 cups water 1/2 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon cinnamon Cook on low for 8 hours . When complete , let cool some and transfer to another container and refrigerate . The next morning , scoop out a hunk into a bowl , splash a little milk on it and heat it up in the microwave . Add fruits and toppings as desired . For safety , the cooked porridge should be discarded after 5 days .
I have made refried beans out of pinto , small red , black , and even navy beans . I almost tried using kidney beans once but it seemed wasteful . They were all different in texture but they were all good . Black beans , for example , have a much more fibrous skin so the refried beans are not as smooth - I actually prefer it to the homogeneous pinto mash . Obviously their color is also more interesting . There are a lot of different bean varieties and I do n't know what is available to you . In general I would say to just try whatever you have - it will probably taste good even if it is n't exactly like pintos .
I 'd pick up a simple cone filter at the local coffee shop . Insert a paper filter , add grounds , pour hot water through .
Before all , if you are not willing to invest more than $ 100 ( USD ) in a machine ( more like $ 350 , but I 'm sure you can scrounge for a decent entry-level machine to get the job done ) , you can stop reading as my suggestion relies on a better machine . That said , quickly browsing Amazon <URL> Here is what is going wrong with your latte : Machine : If you have a Krups it 's pressure probably is n't rated . This is a bad sign as it indicates how well it will " pull " ( brew , make ) the espresso . My guess for most units : Unrated = wo n't pull . Buy a machine with a rated pressure , 15-bar is what to expect . ( I do n't mean to sound snobby ; I got by with a $ 60 Coffeemate for awhile , but they wo n't get you the results you 're asking for ) Bean : Lattes are made with espresso , not coffee ( U.S. ) . You 're using coffee . So start by buying espresso beans instead of dark roast coffee or Folgers . While you 're at it , if you want it to taste like restaurant quality , buy them from a local roaster ( I 'd imagine you can get some mad fresh beans in Africa ) and grind them fresh ( just prior to brewing ) . I prefer a coarser grind to my espresso , you will also need to press the grinds ( " pack " ) in the gruppa ( metal basket of machine ) . Milk : While you 're at it , do n't necessarily use whatever comes out of the fridge . <URL> and <URL> have the dirt on milk and frothing . Basically <URL> . If you have a favorite place in mind for your exemplar latte , go ask them where they get their milk and follow suit . There 's a degree of preference in which milk you use , go with the one you know you prefer and perfect your technique . Frothing/Steaming : You are n't frothing your milk . Buy a machine with a working wand , froth the milk . Actually , frothing the milk is fun and it tastes great all on its own . Note : you do want to get foam on top , this indicates you have properly steamed the milk below ( remember to hold back the foam , and pour only the steamed milk into your latte , then depending on your region 's definition adding a bit of foam on top ) . Container : Add some dignity to life whenever you can . Use ceramic ; you 're at home . Those are the key differences that are causing problems for the latte you want to amp up . Now you can skip the consumer espresso machine advice and get a stove-top setup ( <URL> and use a normal , smallish pot with a whisk for the milk ) , but that takes a smidge more effort in terms of getting it right . Either way , following these guidelines should get that latte much closer to where you want it to be . Basically , the only advantage the shop will have over yours is a bigger machine , overworked employees who might not have the time to care about your coffee at this time , and paper cups .
Yes , it is just fine to bake a cake in a pan like the <URL> . A pan of that type may stick a bit more than a metal pan , so you might find <URL> to be of benefit . It 's unlikely that you will have any problems at all , but read Aaronut 's answer <URL> .
Coat the chocolate chips in flour ( whichever type of flour goes into your cake ) . Put a few ounces or two of flour and the chocolate chips into a zip-top bag , close tightly and shake . The coated chips will then adhere and tend to " float " in the batter . Subtract the amount flour used to coat the chips from the flour otherwise used in the recipe . You could do this with cocoa powder instead of flour .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
" Plastic chocolate " is a form of chocolate used for modeling and shaping decorative elements such as chocolate roses , ribbons and other elements for cakes and desserts . Take about 1 lb . of bittersweet chocolate and melt over a double boiler . When chocolate is melted , stir in 2/3 cup of light corn syrup . Mix until evenly blended and then set aside to cool . When it firms up , wrap tightly in a heavy gauge plastic bag or wrap tightly in plastic wrap . Let sit for several hours or overnight . No need to refrigerate it , ambient temperature is fine . Cut the plastic chocolate into smaller size chunks that will be easy to knead . Begin kneading to soften it . If it gets sticky , use a little cocoa powder but be careful not to dry it out . Knead until pliable and then roll out to desired thickness and cut as desired to shape your sushi rolls , decorative elements , etc. . You can roll it through the roller of a pasta machine to help get it to an even thickness . If you 're wanting the rough look of nori then press some crumpled foil into it after rolling as previously suggested .
I am happy to give you a brief idea , but you may have to tell me how much info you need Get the lotus leaves from chinese shop and they are usually dried leaves , so you need to soak them in water for a night . After that give it a wash and cut it to the right side sticky rice is a type of rice , so that 's what you need . Do n't use any other rice as they wo n't stick . You will need to soak the rice in water for couple of hours and add couple drops of oil . Prepare whatever you want to put in your rice like mushroom and meat When u make the wrap , put a layer of rice on the leaf and then place the meat and mushroom on the rice . After that put another layer of rice on top and wrap it up Put the wrapped rice to steam and I can not help you with the time , but it 's between 10-20 mins Good luck
Cheap cheese is , as others have explained , cheap for a reason . You should be able to find old/extra old ( AKA " sharp " / " extra sharp " ) cheddar cheese in the cheap section , which makes a reasonably good starting point - this cheese does have some flavour . Daniel says he simmers the milk ; I generally start with evaporated milk , which is even more economical than regular milk and keeps in the pantry forever . Although I would not use evaporated milk in just any recipe calling for milk , it happens to work quite well for Mac 'n Cheese . Other common additions to help offset the lack of flavour in poorly-aged cheeses are : Salt . Remember , salt is essentially a flavour enhancer and will bring out the natural taste of any other ingredient . Mustard . Prepared mustard is OK , but concentrated mustard made from dry mustard and a small amount of water is even better , so you can avoid having to add too much liquid . This does n't enhance the flavour of the cheese , but it does share some of the " sharpness " associated with cheddar and makes a good complement . As a bonus , it also acts as a natural emulsifier for the sauce , helping to minimize separation and curdling . Ground cayenne or red pepper . Although most people probably do n't associate Mac 'n Cheese with piquant , a small amount of this wo n't make the sauce noticeably spicy , but it will add a bit of the same " kick " you get with very old cheese . If all else fails , my " secret weapon " for Mac 'n Cheese is - not kidding - the sauce base from Kraft Dinner ( AKA Kraft Macaroni and Cheese Dinner for you Yankees ) , especially if you can get the " extra sharp " version . This stuff is dirt cheap ( often just 99 cents for a package ) and before you dismiss this as heresy , keep in mind that the idea is not to use the whole thing . Just a teaspoon or two to enhance your homemade sauce . If you do n't approve of such shortcuts then you should n't be buying cheap cheese in the first place , right ? So there you have it . Try some or all of the above ; I 'm sure you 'll end up with something that 's at least acceptable , if not great .
In the interests of science I gave this a try . Used a can of carbonated water , boiled in my kettle . There was no boiling water explosion , although I more than half expected one . It seemed to maybe boil a little faster , but that 's more likely due to the fact that it 's less liquid than I usually heat . Being a tea fanatic I have a lot of flavored teas but I opted for PG Tips , figuring I would taste any difference a little more easily . I caught very little flavor difference from usual , maybe a little stronger but that could be chalked up to any number of things besides using carbonated water . So yeah , I think carbonated water would probably work in a pinch . Probably do n't put too much of it in the kettle , though . ( A small part of me still suspects that had it been full it would have shot boiling water everywhere ) .
end question
start question
Would n't this cake batter be too runny ? Would the coffee affect the texture ?
Compare that recipe to this very similar one from Ina Garten ( complete with handy video ) <URL> . Watch her pour . No question , that is a wet batter . Apparently it works fine , Ina 's recipe is very highly rated . Both recipes use volumetric measurements ( ugh ) , so I 'll use cups . Ina 's recipe ( sugar is <URL> ( sort of ) , subject for another question ) - Wet ingredients ( 2 + 1 + .5 + 1 + .5 ( eggs ) = 5 cups wet to 2.5 cups dry ( flour plus cocoa ) 5/2 .5 = 2 Your recipe : Wet ingredients ( 2.5 + 1.5 + 1.33 + 1.5 + .75 ( egg ) = 7.58 cups wet to 4 cups dry ( flour plus cocoa ) 7.58 / 4 = 1.9 So they 're very close , Ina 's actually a bit " wetter " . I am not aware of anything special the coffee would do to the baking chemistry here . It 's got some acid , but I do n't think that is relevant . As far as the " wetness " of the batter , it 's the same as water as far as I know . The temperature might help dissolve the sugar , but that would be a minor thing at best .
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
Batter for pancakes is often nicer if it is left in the fridge for a few hours . I 'd make them fresh tonight with the batter you 're making for the couple you want now . Enjoy !
Posted as answer by request of @BaffledCook : Here 's an slightly informal blog post outlining changes in taste between varying degrees of freshness in the grind of a coffee . <URL> The short version is that the coffee starts losing freshness as soon as it is ROASTED . The longer it sits the faster it goes stale . The more surface area it has ( ie : you 've ground it up ; also , the finer the grind ) , the faster it goes stale . The more you expose it to air , the faster it goes stale . So , seal your coffee in an air tight container at room temperature . And grind as close to the time you add water to it as possible . How much of a difference detected depends on the the actual coffee been , the roast , the taster 's taste buds . If you buy a bean that 's been sitting on the shelf for 3 months already , you will probably notice less of a difference than a bean that was roasted last week . I buy beans that are roasted and sold within a week , and I DO notice a difference if I leave the grounds for a day or two before drinking .
Yes , you can roast the beans some more . However the results will probably not be great . Roasting results in quite a bit of smoke . If you are going low tech , I would do it in a wok in a very well ventilated area . It 's pretty easy to set off smoke detectors . A stove top with a range hood might be good enough if you have a particularly good range hood . Outside with the wok on a BBQ is probably best . Roast over a low heat and stir continuously . You want to get the beans as even as possible , trying not to burn them . The beans will continue to roast after taking them off the heat . So stop one or two roast levels before the desired colour and tip your beans out into a colander and continue stirring to cool . The residual heat will cook the bean some more . To aim for a desired roast level , compare the current roast colour to your desired roast colour and maybe to a roast level chart . Google image search " coffee roast level chart " . Guesstimate the roast level that is one or two levels below your desired colour to stop at . Once again there will be a lot of smoke .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
The heat is the same ; all peppers contain <URL> . The <URL> defines heat in terms of capsaicin content . Use the peppers that have the flavor you want , and make it as hot as you want , and you 'll be set . And the flavor besides heat is definitely concentrated in the flesh , so you should n't notice any real difference in pepper flavor either .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
A 9 " round pan that is 1 1/2 " deep takes 6 cups of batter , while one that is 2 " deep takes 8 . That 's for totally full to the brim . This <URL> says about the amount of batter from a box : An average 2-layer cake mix yields 4 to 5 1/2 cups of batter . and should have a bunch of helpful guides to using batter for non-standard pans .
I have had great results by taking individual garlic cloves and cutting the root end off each , but leaving them in their papery skins . Then you put those dry into a small saucepan ( ideally one with a thick bottom ) over low-to-medium heat . Put a lid on it , and let it go for 20 minutes or so , shaking vigorously every couple of minutes to turn the cloves over . When the cloves are really soft , you 're done . The paper skins protect the garlic cloves from burning , but the direct contact with the hot pan cooks them nicely . When you 're done you can squeeze the soft , roasted garlic goodness out of the root end of the skins . This is a particularly nice technique when you want roasted garlic flavor but only need a few cloves , not a whole head . The first time I did a recipe that called for this process , I was sure the garlic would scorch or the skins would catch fire , but it worked great .
I 'll try to break this down into components to make it simpler . If a <URL> starts by combining sugar and a solid fat ( creaming ) , this incorporates small air bubbles into the batter which will be seed bubbles for the carbon dioxide produced by chemical leavening . Occasionally , this creaming is used alone for leavening ( as in traditional poundcakes ) . If the flour is added straight to this , it can help prevent the batter from curdling later if a colder ingredient is added . This also coats the flour with fat , preventing gluten development and making a very fine , tender crumb since the flour is " waterproofed " before other liquids are added . If eggs are added to the fat and sugar , you can make an emulsified cake but the presence of water when the flour is added can make it slightly tougher . Some <URL> ( usually with oil ) require all the liquids to be mixed together , and then added to all the dry ingredients which have already been mixed . Again , this can sometimes lead to a tougher cake since the flour is exposed to water . <URL> is to mix all the dry ingredients , then incorporate the solid fat into that , then add liquids . This will usually lead to tender cakes as the flour has been coated with fat before liquids are added . If a <URL> is leavened with whipped egg whites ( or whole eggs ) , those will be added last to prevent the bubbles from being knocked out by excess stirring . You pretty much always want the fat to be present when the flour is added though . As you saw in your recipe , adding liquid to the flour without the fat will allow too much gluten development and make your cake tough and dense .
They will technically last a long time in the freezer - up to many months - but this is not the best way to store them as they lose flavor quickly ( as little as 5-6 uses ) . Even though the beans will last , storing them in the freezer is not ideal . It affects flavor for a number of reasons . ( See below ) If you have n't opened the bag , store the bag in the cupboard , away from sunlight , heat , and excess humidity . The best way to store coffee beans after being opened is in an opaque , airtight container at room temperature ( unless you have a resealable bag with a degassing valve designed for storing coffee ) . After being opened , the beans are considered fresh for 2-3 weeks , although if you are strict about the storage you may be able to get up to 5 out of them . ( When I say fresh , I mean with minimal flavor change/loss ) Why the freezer is bad : Freezing beans severely lowers the humidity in the bag or container . This causes the beans to become stale very quickly . In effect , you are slowly freeze drying them . Also using cold beans in a grinder can mess with grind due to the oil on the beans being in a more solid state , which in turn affects the brewing . If you do decide to store them in the freezer , put them in an airtight container and when you go to use the beans let the container warm up to room temperature before opening . This way you do not mess with the overall humidity content of the container too much . Especially let them warm up to room temperature before grinding . Sources : I am a Barista in a cafe and a lover of coffee at home . I have tried both methods of coffee storage and have dealt with many customers who have tried both . In my store we follow these regulations : Beans that go into an opaque container that is not totally airtight are fresh for two weeks max . Packaged beans with a degassing valve are fresh for six months or longer in the bag . Beans , once ground , can not be used after two hours ( that being said , ground coffee starts losing flavor immediately ) . Obviously , the sooner you use everything the better , but we follow those guidelines .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
Some of the volatile flavors will be diminished , but I 've managed to make fairly good drinks with the help of mint that I kept frozen . In my experience , freezer burn starts to become visible after two or three months , and starts to harm flavor probably around 4-6 months . I 'm not sure preparing the drink will work really well , but if you just defrost the drink in the refrigerator , it probably wo n't be terrible . Active thawing with heat will probably cause some harm . Many infusions and teas become a bit cloudy and lose color after bottling or freezing , which is why most bottled teas use an enzyme ( not usually a listed ingredient ) designed to mitigate that .
There are a number of other threads here with some bearing on this question , including : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> What we can glean from all of these is that temperature control is critical , and can vary between different models . You want a refrigerator that can reliably maintain a consistent temperature without wide temperature spikes , and you probably want a relatively low differential between different parts of the box ( so that , for instance , items in the bottom compartment do n't freeze while items on the top shelf spoil ) . Different compartments can help in isolating foods from one another , but they would be especially valuable if their temperature and humidity could can be independently adjusted to allow for minute control . Also , keeping your fridge clean is important , so that mold , bacteria , and so on ca n't collect and spoil your fresh new produce ; thus you want a model that can be readily disassembled and scrubbed . Easily removable shelves , compartments , and so on would be beneficial , and they should be made from easy-to-clean plastics or glass with minimal texture . At the same time , these need to be sturdy and adjustable , so that you can thaw that 20-pound turkey without having to sacrifice too much other space or breaking a shelf . Speaking as not just a chef , but as a home bartender , I also want adjustable space inside the door ( s ) so that I can store a variety of differently-sized bottles upright . But that 's more for convenience and efficient storage than it is about taste or quality .
It is not simply a matter of strong versus weak . Rather , different qualities are extracted from the coffee over different parts of the brewing process . The most volatile components are extracted early in the brew , and the less volatile components come out over the length of the brew . So the distribution of flavors varies over the brew . Total brew time is carefully calibrated in quality coffee makers to extract the most desirable flavors possible , and minimize the least desirable . By taking some out early , you are guaranteed a bad first cup , and are consigning the remainder of the pot to be less than it could be . For best quality , you should wait for the entire brew , so that the flavors are balanced from the entire brew time .
If you use your whole beans within a week it 's probably not worth storing it in the refrigerator or freezer . Coffee beans should be stored in a cool , dry place . They can last 1-3 weeks in your pantry . Ideally you should store them in an airtight opaque container . They degrade quickly in the presence of light , heat , or oxygen . If you want to store them longer , then they will last 3-4 month in the freezer . Source : <URL>
I 've been using a Toddy for about two years now . I have found that you can get a plenty strong concentrate with only 1/2 pound of freshly ground coffee steeped in filtered water ( like in a Brita ) for just short of 18 hours . Beyond 18 hours the grounds become waterlogged and the same elements that produce the bitterness found in hot brewed coffee start to come out . 12 hours , though , is barely enough to get the flavor out . At only one or two hours , I ca n't imagine that there would be much flavor at all . If you use a Toddy , you will find that using a finer ground will result a very cumbersome , frustrating draining process and/or sediment in your concentrate . As to the caffeine , I believe you will find that the matter is undecided . Someone needs to conduct an experiment with well defined parameters to really figure it out .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
end question
start question
Can you make jerky from stewing chickens ?
Sure ! You can make jerky out of any meat that is n't too fatty . Jerky is just meat that has been flavored and dried . The drying has to be done with care no matter what kind of meat you use , experimentation is playing with food-safety fire . Homemade chicken jerky for dogs was loudly in the news a few years ago because a lot of dogs got sick and even mysteriously died after eating chicken jerky dog treats imported from China . To my knowledge , the mystery has never been solved , but a lot of people started making their own chicken jerky at that point . I have no idea if there is any benefit to using a stewing chicken vs a young chicken for jerky . I rarely see stewing chickens , and if I got a hold of one I 'd stew it , but that 's just me . At least in the US , they are not common . <URL> The USDA does not endorse using any method for drying other than a dehydrator or an oven . They also ( in a step not included in many recipes ) recommend fully cooking the meat or poultry before dehydrating . <URL> Beyond taking proper safety precautions , your choice of meat for jerky is your own . My favorite is salmon .
<URL> says you can safely store waffle batter for 3 months , but I 've had bad luck freezing it as far as quality goes . After thawing and cooking the batter , the waffles did n't really " rise " enough to be worthwhile . They tasted ok , but the texture was n't nearly what I wanted . Waffles are essentially a <URL> , and I believe the baking powder does n't have the same effect after freezing . I do know that you lose the frothy goodness that you get from the whisking/beating , which is important in achieving the light , fluffy lift inside the crispy exterior . I was told that if you use a yeast recipe instead of a baking powder recipe , you can thaw it overnight and it will give the yeast time to activate by morning - unfortunately I have n't tried it so I 'm only passing it on as a suggestion . What I 've found works : Making a bunch of waffles and freezing them between layers of wax paper . Not as good as fresh , but better than store-bought frozen , and very convenient . Storing the dry mix in the pantry ( short-term ) or freezer ( longer-term ) , as I generally have milk and eggs on hand and have time for a quick whisk . Not as convenient or portable , but tastier . If you modify the recipe using evaporated milk or dried buttermilk , you can make them with water and egg instead of milk and egg . As a side note , you probably have about 3 days in the fridge .
That is simply caramelized sugar that coats the dish before the custard is poured in for baking . As the flan is chilled , the moisture from the custard liquefies the caramelized sugar and results in the sauce . If you 're wanting to make it for other desserts and are n't making flan , then simply caramelize sugar and then add water to it . Be careful as the steam can easily burn you if you 're standing over it . The sugar will seize up and then as it continues to cook the crytallized caramelized sugar will liquefy . You will then have caramelized sugar syrup .
For me it very much depends on what meat I am making jerky out of . With the grain is much more solid than against . Just as you might expect . If you are using relatively tender meat then cutting across the grain will result in a batch of jerky crumbs . Cutting with the grain will be good . If you are using very tough meat then cutting with the grain will be absolutely impossible to chew . I often make jerky out of brisket which is very tough . I compromise and cut at a 45deg angle . This results in very tough , jerky but it separates into smaller , more manageable chunks when it is chewed .
I just found the <URL> for it . The name of it is Bak Kwa ( Sweet BBQ Pork Jerky ) . Here 's the <URL> ( boy it 's easy to find things when you know the name ! ) . The recipe actually grind up the pork . They use about 70 % meat and 30 % fat . But according to the wikipedia entry there is also an expensive version where they slice of a solid piece of meat . Sugar and salt was originally used and then the meat was smoked ( this sounds really close to BBQing , which generally cooks the meat with smoke ... yummy tender ribs ) . These days , people make them in the oven at low heat . In the recipe , they put the minced mixture between two sheets of parchment paper , which probably keeps it moist and tender !
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
If there 's leavening in the cake ( baking soda or baking powder ) that gets activated once incorporated with the rest of the ingredients , and you substantially overmix , you may lose some of its power as you help the gas escape from your batter . Unless you 're whipping it vigorously , you 're not going to be bringing enough air into the batter to make up for it . This is pretty much like letting the batter sit out on the counter for a while before baking , except faster .
Torani Peach Syrup ! It 's readily available online or at coffee shop supply outlets . <URL>
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
If the banana flower was astringent it is because of the flower , not the cooking method . When the flowers are large and young they taste a lot better . If you wait until the bananas are formed and the stem to the flower is long then it will be astringent . The best time to pick the flower is when the stem is 10cm or less from the banana bunch . If the flower is old it will not be as good . The variety of banana will also influence the taste of the flower . Sugar bananas often have the best flowers . You can eat the pink section but it is not as pleasant as the white section . If you eat the small individual flowers you need to take out the stepal in the centre which is incredibly time consuming . Putting the banana flower in lime water is simply to stop it going brown before you cook it . It does not significantly change the flavour . There are many ways to cook banana flower . Here is my preferred method . Peel the flower until you come to the white centre . Discard the red outer section and the individual flowers hidden within this . I like to quarter the centre and then I place in boiling water and simmer for 15 minutes with some salt . For me it is delicious just like this with some lime , but from here you can put it in a cooked curry , salad etc
Most cured products last 7-10 days in the fridge although you most likely will see a quality drop off before then at around day three or four . You can also freeze the bacon for up to two months and thaw for use to extend the shelf life .
Yeah , maybe you just had some bitter turnips . It sounds like you did all the right things to hide the bitterness . If you want to try a different cooking method , I tend to like turnip boiled and mashed . If the turnip is old ( and likely bitter ) you can add an apple . I 've also read that you can stir in baking soda after the turnips have boiled to remove the bitterness . You would then need to rinse thoroughly . I 've never tried this however .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
If you do n't dehydrate the nuts , you ' llend up with water and nut oil in your nut butter . This is a bad combination since it is likely to make your nut butter get mouldy very quickly .
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
Depending on what you 're going to cook , there are a few ways you can freeze them . For most uses , I find the simplest method is just to peel , core , and slice them . First , you want to keep the slices from browning using one of the following methods : Dip them in lemon juice . Dip in a salt water dip ( 2 tbsp salt to 1 gallon water ) Quickly steam/blanch ( 1-2 minutes ) to stop the enzymes that cause browning , Pack them in a sugar syrup ( usually used when you plan to serve the apples as-is after defrosting , see link referenced below ) . A good ratio is 2 cups sugar to 3 cups of water , plus 1/2 tsp of ascorbic acid to prevent browning . You 'll want to make about 1 cup syrup per quart of apples . Personally , I prefer the lemon juice method , it 's proven to be quite effective for me and I always have lemons in hand in the house . Freeze apple slices on a single layer on a cookie sheet ( in the bottom of the freezer ) then transfer to a Ziploc bag when solid . The sheet method allows them to freeze as fast as possible in the typical home freezer , and prevents them from sticking together so you can portion them as you need them . If you 're going to be storing for a long time , wrap them in plastic wrap and then foil before putting in the bag . Some people just wash and freeze them whole , though I prefer do to the prep before freezing so I can just pull them out of the freezer and use them . They will freeze well whole , however I find that the ruptured cell walls cause them to be harder to peel/core after defrosting using this method . If you 're going to make a pie , you can also freeze them with sugars and spices etc ( prepared just as you would make a pie filling ) in a pie pan . You can then take them out of the freezer like that , drop the prepared , shaped mixture right into a pie crust , and bake your pie with a slight increase in baking time . As far as how long they 'll last , they 'll be safe indefinitely , but will lose flavor after a few months , I would n't recommend going past 6 . <URL> says 2-4 but I 've pushed it further than that and there was n't a ton of flavor loss . Might depend on variety of apple as well . The suggestions on <URL> are in line with my personal experience ( and expand upon them ! )
No , you ca n't . Or at least , you wo n't get the result you 're really looking for . Water needs to be able to move through the meat for the salt and flavorings to be transported to the inner cells of the meat . When the meat 's frozen , you 're dealing with ice crystals . ... that being said , you can <URL> if you 're desperate , but you have less control to know exactly how much salt will be absorbed . ( and I vaguely remember another question on here about temperature &amp; brining , and I seem to recall someone reported on experimental results that really cold brines did n't transfer flavors deeply into the meat . ) .
Yes , you absolutely can eat turkey eggs . They are somewhat like duck eggs in that they are richer and creamier in taste . However , turkeys do n't lay nearly as many eggs as chickens - perhaps 100 a year as opposed to a hen 's 300 , so do n't expect to enjoy them too often .
A basic Google search hit on numerous sites all which agree that almond paste can be frozen with no deterioration of the product . The key is to wrap it up in several layers of plastic bags or plastic , then aluminum foil to keep out other flavors from the freezer as my experience has been that ground nuts will absorb odors if improperly wrapped . Once in the freezer , hopefully in manageable-sized packages for easy thaw and use , the almond paste should keep for several months at least . I 've stored ground almonds in the freezer for a year with no harm to the flavor . Best of luck !
end question
start question
Baking or Cooking - why orange and not other sweet citrus fruit ?
I do n't claim that this is a canonical answer , but it seems to be a bit like the situation with apples . You have cooking apples and eating apples , which have been bred for different traits . Similarly you have juicing oranges , eating oranges , and bitter oranges ( used for marmalade ) . The other citrus fruits which taste most like oranges ( mandarins , clementines , tangarines ) are more suited for division into segments , and you 're more likely to see them used for decoration . You could juice them if you do n't have a better option , but recipes will tend to use the most suitable commonly available option . Grapefruit has a very different flavour , so you have to take that into account when substituting . It 's also not necessarily sweet , and certainly I have never seen grapefruit sold as " sweet grapefruit " or " bitter grapefruit " .
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
New-York style cheesecake should n't have much rise to it . The mixture is basically a custard and the only rise would come from steam created in bubbles that are incorporated during the beating process . While a REALLY smooth texture is the goal , you do n't want to aerate the batter as in other cakes or you 'll end up with cracking on the surface from the expansion of the air bubbles . Pull the cream cheese out a couple hours in advance to ensure that it is at room temperature throughout . Eggs must also be at room temperature and can easily be warmed by putting the whole egg in a bowl of hot water from the tap for 5-10 minutes . Having these ingredients at room temperature will create a really smooth texture without beating in too much air . In regard to sweetness , you might be able to increase the sugar slightly ( compare the ratio of sugar to cream cheese in your recipe vs. others ) , but be careful not to add too much . Excessive sugar will make the custard too watery from the formation of sugar syrup and will make it difficult for it to set up .
The main reason why you want to cut the duck in half and roast them with the skin side pointing upwards is so the skin of the duck is nice and crispy . Unlike most roasted poultry where you do n't eat the skin , the duck 's skin is considered a huge delicacy if it is crispy .
Short answer : tomato sauce is a <URL> . Another interesting link can be found <URL> . Tomato sauce in an interesting creature . Think about ketchup . You try you shake some out and nothing . So you tap the bottle a little bit , still nothing . Tap it a little harder , and a little harder , and suddenly boom : a flood of ketchup . The " jumpiness " of tomato sauce is caused by the same physics . Basically , tomato sauce has two things in it that contribute to this characteristic : water and tomato pulp . At first , the tomato pulp is just lying around every which way , which makes the sauce act a lot thicker . But when the strands of pulp are aligned , it makes the sauce act a lot more like water . Heating up the sauce increases the pressure on the sauce , allowing areas of the sauce to become much more fluid , resulting in bubbling , popping , and the flinging of tomato sauce all over your clean white shirt . The same effect is what makes ketchup come flying out of the bottle - when you whack it hard enough , the pressure changes the state of the ketchup , and the ketchup literally flows like water . Edit : updated with relevant information Unfortunately , when I managed to get a hold of Mr. Steingarten 's lovely book , <URL> , * I discovered that the passage regarding tomato sauce as a non-Newtonian fluid was exclusively regarding ketchup , and not general tomato sauce as I thought I remembered . However , this description is still a valuable one , and it does help explain this particular characteristic of tomato-based sauces ( after all , ketchup is a tomato based sauce ) [ p 96 ] : It was only after I had send a stream of ketchup streaking across my wife 's favorite tablecloth , a lovely hand-printed Indian cotton from a shop on the rue Jacob , that I telephoned Professor Malcolm Bourne at Cornell for a lesson in non-Newtonian fluids . Sir Isaac Newton wrote the laws governing liquids that flow like water : the more force you exert on them , the faster they flow . But ketchup is different . Composed of tangled red tomato fibers suspended in a sweet and acidic colorless serum , ketchup behaves like a solid both at rest and under low levels of pressure : but then , at some higher threshold , it suddenly begins flowing like an ordinary fluid . That 's why the frustrated ketchup lover who loses patience with gentle taps on the bottle 's bottom and prematurely shifts to a powerful wallop ends up with a gush of ketchup over everything . Ketchup and mayonnaise are known as Bingham fluids , named after the scientist who characterized them early [ last ] century . * Personally , I think that The Man Who Ate Everything is a must-read for anyone interested in culinary science , and a should-read for anyone interested in food . Second Edit : Due to a handful of downvotes that I received while I slept last night , I guess some clarification is needed : I just want to be absolutely clear here , I am in no way implying that . I offer this information as an example of how tomato pulp suspended in liquid acts . The fact that " tomato sauce is thick " does n't really hold up . The question even clearly states : " Of all the sauces and creams I prepare in a hot pot , tomato sauce is the most jumpy " , which presumably includes thick ones . If thickness was the only factor ( and I 'm not saying that it is n't a factor ) , we would see similar actions from cheese sauces , bechamels , gravies , and a variety of soups . While these sauces/soups do splatter , tomato sauce is significantly more " splattery . " Put a pot of tomato sauce next to any other sauce/soup , take your pick , and heat them to the same temperature . I can pretty much guarantee that given similar conditions , you 're going to be wiping up a lot more tomato sauce than the other one . One last edit : <URL> on Slate indicates that it 's a combination of the above ( being a " plastic liquid " ) , the viscosity , and pectin , as pointed out by Brendan in a comment below .
The reason it tastes sweet is the presence of sugar , ie because it is sweet . Cinnamon is thin tree bark , and it is not uncommon for tree bark , or the layer near the bark to be sweet because of sap . Birch is another example of a tree that is sweet , you can suck on a peeled birch branch for the same reasons as stated in your question .
Oil and butter do n't have the same capacity to hold the sugar/sweetener used in the mix . Whatever is n't dissolved fully in the shortening will still be bound up in the final product ( or maybe end up mostly in the outer crust ) , and you 'll likely perceive the difference as more/less sweet . The main cause is that butter has quite a lot of water bound up in it , which you would n't find at all in oil . You might get a closer similarity by comparing melted , evaporated butter to oil ( 1-to-1 proportion ) , since solid &amp; melted butter have different volumes depending on how much water you 've evaporated ( 1 cup solid / = 1 cup melted ) . I 've got an answer in another question that applies more generally to different phases of shortenings and perceived/actual sweetness - <URL>
Adding herbs directly to baked goods usually results in very strong flavours . Infusing the sugar with the herbs gives a more subtle overtone rather than a full-on explosion . In some cases , of course , you might want a strong herb flavour , but where you just want a hint , infusing the sugar is great . The classic example is using stripped vanilla pods to make vanilla sugar , which adds subtle vanilla tones to cakes and meringues .
For Baking , to double the quantities , try the following : Remove 1/3 of the cooking time . Double the remaining amount . Add your original third back on . So If you 're doubling something that would take 1 hour to bake . Remove 1/3 ( Leaving 40 minutes ) Double this new amount ( Giving 80 minutes ) Add your original 1/3 back on . ( 100 minutes ) You may need to play around with the temperatures to make sure that you 're not burning the outside .
Actually , <URL> are often white , and may be purple or other colors . . In the US , what we get labeled as yams are actually sweet pototoes . ( They were similar to the african yams that people were used to , and the name stuck , sort of like how ' pepper ' is used for chilies , but they 're not even close to the same thing . ) update A <URL>
Corn ( Maize ) is <URL> , and not any of the other things you mention . Even the farmers and agricultural agencies consider it a grain - it 's one of the " official grains of Canada " and regulated by the <URL> . I 'm not sure when or why it started being called a vegetable , but as far as the culinary definition goes , it has far too much sugar and starch to fall properly into that category . The typical culinary definition of a vegetable is savory , not sweet . Botanically , the kernels can be considered a type of fruit called a <URL> ( AKA a grain ) , although it 's not normally eaten as fruit ( for one thing , it 's normally cooked ) . It may accompany vegetables reasonably well , just like rice or many other grains . But it is a grain .
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
As a child , I used to hate the feel and taste when I conciously bit on a piece of onion ( strongest offender : medium-sized chunks , sautéed glassy but still firm ) . Sometimes that still happens . However , I use onion a lot myself now in cooking . Lots of dishes really need the kind of taste onions can supply ; even though that taste may by itself be a bit gross , it 's really useful in the mix . ( This is true for many other ingredients as well ! ) I can only speak for myself , but very likely , there are some dishes where you do n't even notice that onions are in , but they are -- and you would n't like it if they were n't ! Do use onions , just do it consciously . There are broadly three ways of preparing them that I consider effective , each suited to different cases : Disperse them throughout the dish . Either chop them really fine and saut&eacute;e ( with the right technique and a decent knife you can get the chunks down to only a few millimetres ) , or boil with other vegetables and then pur&eacute;e . You 'll get all the good taste , but nowhere too strong and without any unpleasant mouth-feel . Ideal for light/creamy sauces or soups . Caramelise them boldly . Frying changes the taste of onions a lot , it makes them much sweeter , gets rid of the pungency in exchange for a really concentrated savouriness , and almost completely tames the consistency . Browned onions play great together with strong seasonings like garlic and pepper , as flavouring for chewy mushrooms or meats . Or the opposite : keep them mostly raw ! The freshness and crunch of raw onions can also be very useful without evoking what I call the bad onion effect -- albeit in a completely different way . Thinly sliced in salads , or very quickly stir-fried in rice dishes , you keep the raw pungency in check while staying clear of the uncanny softness . Again , it 's a good idea to define the taste heading with other sharp flavours : vinegar or chilies work well . Perhaps you wo n't be able to befriend yourself with all of these preparation methods , but you should give them a try .
TL ; DR = The sweet tea takes longer to cool down because there is a lot more stuff in it to get cold . When cooling unsweetened tea , you are cooling almost pure water ( the tea solids are negligible ) . A 12 ounce glass of unsweetened tea has about , you guessed it , 12 oz ( by weight ) of liquid to cool , or 340 grams ( mass ) . Southern-style sweet tea ( if this is the " sweet tea " you are referring to ) , has a 2:1 ratio ( by volume ) of tea to sugar . A 12 ounce glass of sweet tea has 12 oz ( by weight ) of tea , and 5-6 ounces of sugar ( by weight - 8 oz of sugar by volume = ~ 7 oz by weight ) . This puts the total weight of the beverage at 18 ounces or 510 grams ( by mass ) . The sweet tea , in this example , has 50 % MORE mass than the unsweetened tea ! This extra mass will take more time to cool down , because there is a lot more STUFF to get cold . It occupies the same volume , but there are a LOT more molecules to chill . Compounding factors : Heat Capacity vs. Specific Heat : A detail to this is that a solution of sugar and water has a lower specific heat ( by MASS unit ) than pure water , so the total heat capacity of the sweet tea is not quite 150 % of the heat capacity of the unsweetened tea , but somewhere between 100 % and 150 % . Intuition would put it somewhere in the 130 % -140 % range . Read the <URL> for some details on that calculation . Rest assured , however , that the heat capacity of the sucrose solution is higher than pure water . Conductivity : I 've ignored the thermal conductivity of the solution , since I 'm assuming that the stirring in the tea makes the small conductivity differences between the solutions negligible , but that calculation could be done as well . Convection : Unstirred sweet tea will experience less convection than unstirred unsweetened tea . In the unstirred sweet tea , dense sucrose solution will remain at the bottom while the cold water from the melting ice will sit on the surface ( you can actually see this visually if the tea is sufficiently colored ) . This slows cooling by slowing the mixing of the cold liquid with the warm liquid . In unsweetened tea the cool liquid will sink the bottom , promoting convection and self-mixing . However , convection is a side-issue to the primary point , the total heat capacity of the beverage . And as a final note , explanations like this really make it obvious how annoying it is that US measurements use ounces for both volume AND weight .
When washing vegetables that can get muddy ( Kale , leeks , etc. ) I generally recommend first using tepid to slightly warm water to help soften the mud more easily . Leeks should be split down the middle and then can be fanned under warm water which will help wash the dirt out more readily . For Kale , if it is n't muddy then you can use cold water and give it a soak and agitate as hobodave indicated below . If they 're muddy and dirty , then I 'd use slightly warmer water to first clean them and then <URL> to help plump them up and increase their turgor pressure to make them nice and crisp . A good wash in water ( universal solvent ) should be enough . Most of what I 've read on the effectiveness of " vegetable wash sprays " say that they 're no better than a good wash with water .
It means the butter is made from cream that has n't been fermented . Butter made from fermented cream is known as " cultured cream butter " , and it has distinct sour , lactic acid notes . Sweet cream butter tastes , well , sweet , and if it is from really good fresh milk you may be able to taste grassy notes . Both are good in their own way .
As you can see at the Chapter 7 : Storage of horticultural crops of the book <URL> : If you look p. 166 ( p. 173 on the PDF ) , you can see that the onions need to be stored in this conditions : between 0-5 ° C with a relative humidity ( R.H. ) of 65-70 % If you look p. 168 ( p. 175 on the PDF ) , you can see that the potatoes have different needs : Fresh market : between 4-7 ° C Processing : between 8-12 ° C seed potatoes : between 0-2 ° C But must of all , potatoes need very highest relative humidity ( R.H. ) : 95-98 % versus 65-70 % for onions So , if you store them together , either one or the other will be in bad storage conditions . Further , as you can see at <URL> : Dry onions ( Group 3 ) are very sensitive to moisture , which makes their storage incompatible with the high R.H. needed for potatoes . New potatoes ( Group 6 ) may also produce ethylene , which will badly damage green onions ( Group 2 ) if stored together . Anyway , storage of horticultural crops can not just be resumed by " do n't put this or that together " , as you may have seen : it is important to consider R.H. , temperature , and many other factors . If the subject interests you , all this ( and many other things ) is pretty well explained in the following references : <URL> <URL> <URL> Ethylene is also a " critical factor " , and this topic is more developped in the following resources : <URL> <URL>
I dont think that adding parnips to a beef stock would change the chemistry . I would give the beef stock a longer time to freeze as well as check the temperature in your freezer !
You just add any vanilla-tasting product to your coffee . It does n't have to be a sugared " coffee flavor " . The best option should be plain vanilla extract . Then you have synthetic vanilin , which comes as a white powder or in tiny vials of propylene-glycol solution . As it is very concentrated , it ends up being much cheaper than the extract , but its smell is nowhere as rich as that of real vanilla extract . I suppose that you could also use real vanilla pods . I would cut off a piece , cut it open , and place it within the ground coffee during brewing ( if you think it will interfere too much , you can also just scratch out the seeds and use them , but you will be throwing out lots of vanilla that way ) . I have never done it , so I do n't know how big a piece you will need for the taste to be reasonably strong . I suspect that using vanilla extract will be more economical , as vanilla usually needs time to give off aroma , and the short espresso brewing time , even with the pressure , will need a fairly large chunk to make a difference in taste . Still , the pressure-brewed vanilla will have a different taste profile than the alcohol-dissolved vanilla extract , so if you are not happy with the taste the extract gives , this is one more method to try out .
end question
start question
What is the ratio for soft polenta ?
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
Chickpea flour ( <URL> , besan ) is very useful in Indian cookery . The most common use in the West is probably for making bhajis and pakora . The most popular of which are <URL> , very popular in the UK . They are essentially an spiced onion fritter , shaped in either discs or balls . Any vegetables can be used to make pakora ( which is essentially the same thing ) or bhajis , but spinach ( sag pakora ) , aubergine ( us eggplant , brinjal bhaji ) , potato ( aloo pakora ) or cauliflower ( gobi pakora ) are the most common , sometimes in combination . Gram flour is also used for making <URL> ( also papad , papadum , a crisp fried pancake , served as an accompaniment to meals with chutney . One of the more commonly seen uses is in chevda ( sometimes chivda ) , or as we call it in the UK usually <URL> ( I believe it is called Punjabi Mix in the US ) . A mixture of dried savoury snacks , coated in spice . One of the primary ingredients is sev , a dried noodle made from gram flour . Mixtures predominantly composed of sev are called sev mamra . There are also a number of Indian sweets made with besan . <URL> ( barfi is something akin to fudge , made with condensed milk ) : <URL> ( little sweet balls ) : NB . You can use it as an egg substitute in vegan cookery , but soya flour works better for the same purpose and , in my opinion , has less associated flavour .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
In the type of recipe you reference , all of which are quick breads , the result is supposed to be tender , not chewy . Wheat flour has proteins in it , which if agitated in the presence of water , will combine to form a new protein , gluten , which is very chewy . Sometimes , this is desirable as in yeast raised bread , where the gluten forms the structure of the bread , and gives it its bite and chewiness . In fact , this is why ( most ) yeast raised breads are kneaded . Gluten development is not desirable in tender quick breads , like cornbread or banana bread . Biscuits are a type of quick bread where the lumps of butter will promote flakiness , but you still want a tender crumb . The flour and the liquids are combined as quickly as possible , with the least reasonably possible agitation , to minimize the development of gluten , and thus maximize tenderness . The idea of leaving some lumps is to help prevent over mixing , and thus toughening the product . Even if there are some small lumps of unmixed flour , the liquid from the batter will penetrate them in a few minutes during baking , and they will not be a factor in the final product .
" Use within a year " is a good guideline . There are exceptions . Lingonberry jam done right is easily good for a couple of years .
I spoke with the farm that sold me the kohlrabi ; they have seen people make something akin to mashed rutabaga by boiling kohlrabi for ages and ages , so it gets about that soft . Note that mashed rutabaga is apparently still firmer than mashed potatoes , but obviously soft enough to mash into a pulp . For a stir-fry , they suggested a match-stick shape rather than medallions ; my second such stir-fry found them to have about the texture of halfway-cooked onions , soft enough not to crunch anymore but firm enough to hold their shape on a fork .
It depends on the meat and how it 's cut . A ' solid ' uncut piece like a pork loin will take longer to marinade properly than if it was cut into thin strips for stir frying , for example - I 'd want to marinade the former at least 7-8 hours , while the latter could probably get away with 1 .
Soft serve ice cream is soft because : It 's warmer than hard ice cream . According to <URL> , it 's generally made at about -4 C , rather than -15 C for hard ice cream . It 's also served at a higher temperature -- <URL> , compared to 5 to 7 degrees F for hard ice cream . It contains more air . The technical term for air introduced during freezing is <URL> , and it 's calculated based on the percent increase in volume of the ice cream . The more air , the fluffier and softer the mouth-feel . It usually contains <URL> than hard ice cream , which is mitigated by the soft creamy mouth-feel resulting from the warmer temperature . If you were to freeze soft ice cream , you 'd lose the advantage of item 1 . In addition , your freezer takes longer to freeze ice cream than an ice cream maker , which may result in ice crystals in the ice cream . Furthermore , once the soft ice cream chills to the freezer temperature ( usually around 0F ) , the lower fat content may decrease the perceived creaminess , because of the information in item 3 . Of course , having said all of that , I have n't tried the experiment , so I 'd be interested in hearing first hand stories .
The bakers couche is not just floured fabric , it is usually a hard wearing canvas It is used to allow the dough to breath , and hold it 's shape while your actual bread moulds are being used in the oven . The all over air gap allow the crust to dry slightly . A dry crust makes it easier to handle and bakes slightly more crispy The flour is there to stop the soft dough from sticking to the canvas , but a with careful handling and a well worn in couche this should not happen If you keep the couche dry it should not develop mold or mildew . Even if it does , leave it out in the sunshine , so that the UV light can deal to it . I ca n't imagine that the occasional normal household mold is going to form dangerous toxins that can survive the oven ! After use , give the couche a good brush down with a clean fine bristled brush , and store somewhere dry If you have plenty of the fine perforated steel moulds , you wont need to use a couche , just use the pans
Technique for working with choux is important . Sounds like you have the right oven temp to get that initial POOF ! but sounds like the second stage is missing for working with larger shapes . What we do in the bakery is start off at the high temp to get that steam expansion and slight crispness to the outside . We then turn the oven down about 50F-100F and continue to bake them so the dough cooks all the way through . At about the 3/4 point we 'll sometimes quickly poke the bottoms to allow steam to escape easier . Once you stuff the shells with your filling they get soft again so a really crispy shell is n't a big concern for us . It 's about getting the right colour and the complete cooking in the middle . Also , if it does n't quick work out you can do as another poster said , scoop out the under done dough . Good luck !
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
Your polenta was probably sticking because you did n't use enough oil or your barbecue was too cool . Olive oil on a barbecue is a bad idea as it flares up and burns easily , you 're better off with a more standard vegetable oil . The choice of oil is not as important as the quantity in keeping things from sticking , you need to use a lot of it . I use a high temperature silicone to baste the barbecue surface with a lot of oil when I need things not to stick , some use a halved onion dipped in oil to apply it to the grill . Also oil your food . Your barbecue surface could also be too cool . If it 's too cool the surface of the polenta block wo n't form a crust quickly enough and will adhere to the grill . It should be hot enough that you ca n't hold the back of your hand over it for more than 2-3 seconds . Other factors in frying or grilling polenta are the thickness of the polenta , the temperature of the polenta , and the thickness of the mix . You want to be grilling thick slabs of still fridge-temperature polenta that was on the gloopy side when cooked .
Personally , I 've switched almost entirely to <URL> for all types of stirring and scraping spoons . They do n't stain , they are fine up to quite high temperatures , they clean up easily and can go in the dishwasher . They are also wo n't scratch the surface of non-stick cookware . It is true that they do n't feel quite so nice as a good wooden spoon , but the convenience is outstanding . ( On the other hand , I stick with metal for the type of spatula one uses to flip a fritter , because silicone ca n't have a thin enough leading edge , it is too flexible . )
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
Essentially , food pathogens can not grow below 4.0 pH and vinegar is significantly more acidic that that . If you go <URL> and scroll down a bit , there is a good , succinct explanation . They use brines of 38 and 44 percent vinegar " for taste and safety " . With this basic information , it would be easy to create brines that are safe and suite your taste . You really do n't need salt , sugar , spices or herbs for safety for vinegar pickles ( though you do need salt for lacto-fermented pickles ) . The acidity alone will do it . Of course , you probably want your pickles to taste good , so those other ingredients will be necessary . I should also add , that the site I linked to adds a cook step . This makes the pickles safe immediately after cooking . Without a cook step , the pickles will become safe over time , as the vinegar permeates the product , but may not be safe immediately . It seems that the addition of a low temperature cook step is an interesting innovation that improves safety and the ability to maintain a crunchy product .
I do n't know whether it 's meant to be melted but it 's not how raclette cheese in France or Switzerland is usually like . Livradois is not a region I would spontaneously associate with raclette either . Having grown up in the Alps , I would personally consider raw milk raclette cheese from Savoie or Valais as the most authentic and those cheeses definitely hold their shape , even at room temperature . That said , raclette is not a protected name in either Switzerland or France so it 's produced all over the place and it 's increasingly common to find flavored variants ( with black pepper , mustard seeds , etc. ) I also know people who like to melt blue cheese or reblochon ( a soft cheese from the Savoie area ) under a table-top raclette grill so why not some other soft cheese ? Finally , note that what passes as the ' traditional ' way to prepare raclette is neither a table-top grill nor melting the cheese in a pot and dipping bread in it , fondue-like , but actually exposing the whole piece of cheese to some heat source and scrapping the melted bits as you go , as shown on the <URL> .
I 've been using a Toddy for about two years now . I have found that you can get a plenty strong concentrate with only 1/2 pound of freshly ground coffee steeped in filtered water ( like in a Brita ) for just short of 18 hours . Beyond 18 hours the grounds become waterlogged and the same elements that produce the bitterness found in hot brewed coffee start to come out . 12 hours , though , is barely enough to get the flavor out . At only one or two hours , I ca n't imagine that there would be much flavor at all . If you use a Toddy , you will find that using a finer ground will result a very cumbersome , frustrating draining process and/or sediment in your concentrate . As to the caffeine , I believe you will find that the matter is undecided . Someone needs to conduct an experiment with well defined parameters to really figure it out .
Yes , it can go bad . It 's pretty much the same as the way flour can go bad : the fats can go rancid . Grains are mostly starch , but they contain enough fat for rancidity to be a noticeable problem . There 's a huge amount of variability in how long that takes , though . If it 's airtight and kept in a cool , dark place , it 'll last much longer than the best before date . But if it 's been exposed to air , light , or heat , it can go pretty fast , perhaps even before the best before date . So , smell it . If you detect any unpleasant smells , you probably do n't want to eat it . Even if you do n't smell anything obvious , it could still be subtly rancid , so if you 're planning on serving it to anyone , you might want to cook a small bit to test .
Grinding coffee for espresso is probably the most difficult to get right . The coffee grind needs to be fine enough to increase the pressure required to push the water through the filter and create a good crema . But if the grind is too fine , the ground coffee can block the coffee filter . Generally , espresso coffee grind resembles a mixture of powdered sugar and fine beach sand . Since each espresso machine is a bit different , you may have to experiment to get the coffee grind just right ( <URL> ) . Brewing espresso is particularly susceptible to problems relating to an inconsistent grind . I am not familiar with a burr mill specifically , however burr mills are generally recommended for espresso grinds as they tend to provide consistency . Bear in mind that the grind can either be too coarse and the water will run through without much extraction due to the pressure and space between the grinds , or it can be too fine and allow for a backup of water and espresso water and grinds all over your counter . NOTE : The pressure with which you pack/tamp the puck ( the grinds when pressed in the brewing basket form a puck ) will also play an important role in the extraction process and the crema formation . You can get a feel for how hard to tamp the puck by getting a scale and pressing down until you hit about 30 pounds of pressure ; you want to pack the puck at that pressure of tamp .
end question
start question
Traditional panettone size & volume ?
For big ( standard ) panettoni typical values are : Mould diameter of 17 cm ( 6.7 in ) . Mould height of 11 ~ 13 cm ( 4.3 ~ 5.1 in ) . Dough weight about 800 gr ( 1.7 lb ) . Albeit those values are not defined in <URL> , nor in <URL> . You can also find wider and lower moulds for the same dough sizes ( or upt to 1 kg / 2.2 lb ) . You can find those measures <URL> . Also , if you buy an already made panettone it will quite probably have those or very similar measures . In general , you can use the formula : Dough weight ( gr ) = 1,45 x Mould volume ( cm3 ) Formula calculated empirically . You can <URL> . When you pour the dough in the mould it will only be filled up to 1/4 or 1/3 . It needs to rise a lot : above the upper part of the mould . <URL> on making a homemade mould . And <URL> shows you how to do the mould yourself . It 's in Spanish , but <URL> . Sidenote : Orthodox stress they should be done with lievito naturale ( sourdough ) , not yeasts . Non orthodox italian standard accept only up to 0.01 % of yeast .
Which pan should I use ? Volume of a regular muffins 1/3 cup equals about 79 ml 1/4 cup equals about 60 ml -- > I take the average of both : 70ml per regular muffin Volume of mini muffins 1/8 cup equals about 30 ml 2 tablespoons equal about 20 ml -- > I take the average of both : 25ml per mini muffin Total volume 24 mini muffins ⋅ 25 ml/mini muffin + 4 ⋅ 70 ml/regular muffin = 880 ml = 880 cm ³ batter Using the 8x8 pan 8 " ⋅ 8 " = 20.32 cm ⋅ 20.32 cm ≈ 413 cm ² . Height of the unbaked cake : 880 cm ³ / 413 cm ² ≈ 2 cm ≈ 0,75 " . Using the 9x13 pan 9 " ⋅ 13 " = 22.86 cm ⋅ 33.02 cm ≈ 755 cm ² . Height of the unbaked cake : 800 cm ³ / 755 cm ² ≈ 1 cm ≈ 0,4 inches . I assume that baked muffins will gain the same the volume as the volume of the unbaked batter . Or at least 3/4 of their original volume . The cake without streusel topping in the 8 " x 8 " pan will be 4 cm or 1,5 " thick and the cake in the 9 " x 13 " pan will be 2 cm or 0,8 " thick on the average . After baking , the cake in the 8 " x 8 " pan might look like a <URL> :D After adding streusel topping , I assume you cake will be 1 cm thicker . To prevent extreme doming and to have a shorter baking time I recommend using the 9 " x 13 " pan . Baking time Some receipes in my cook / baking book say that pound cakes backed directly on a sheet pan take about 25 to 30 minutes at 180 ° C / 356F ( in an electric oven ) to de done . You should still check your cake continuously after 15 minutes . image sources : <URL> <URL>
Because of the different shapes , different pastas will occupy different volumes of space both before and after cooking . There are two answers that readily occur to me , one simple one more complex . The simple solution , of course , is just to make too much . Cook your pasta , put in the casseroles with sauce or adding the sauce after , depending on your recipe , and if you have too much ( you should , you planned for it ) let it cool , add mayo , mustard , onion , some pickle relish and make pasta salad . Or throw in soup . Or ... Option two is to measure your pasta by volume when dry , assuming that it approximately doubles in size . So you 'll need to fill one of your casseroles with dry pasta , and that should give you enough to make two casseroles worth , once you have cooked the pasta .
For big ( standard ) panettoni typical values are : Mould diameter of 17 cm ( 6.7 in ) . Mould height of 11 ~ 13 cm ( 4.3 ~ 5.1 in ) . Dough weight about 800 gr ( 1.7 lb ) . Albeit those values are not defined in <URL> , nor in <URL> . You can also find wider and lower moulds for the same dough sizes ( or upt to 1 kg / 2.2 lb ) . You can find those measures <URL> . Also , if you buy an already made panettone it will quite probably have those or very similar measures . In general , you can use the formula : Dough weight ( gr ) = 1,45 x Mould volume ( cm3 ) Formula calculated empirically . You can <URL> . When you pour the dough in the mould it will only be filled up to 1/4 or 1/3 . It needs to rise a lot : above the upper part of the mould . <URL> on making a homemade mould . And <URL> shows you how to do the mould yourself . It 's in Spanish , but <URL> . Sidenote : Orthodox stress they should be done with lievito naturale ( sourdough ) , not yeasts . Non orthodox italian standard accept only up to 0.01 % of yeast .
There is no exact conversion because there are so many different varieties of chickpeas or any bean types for that matter Their water absorption rate and amount is effected by many things including how they have been stored , have they been heat treated on import , and what time of year they where grown ! My rough rule of thumb for beans in general is 2.5 ± .5 times the volume and 2 ± .5 the weight after an overnight soak With our local chickpeas it 's 2.2 times the weight after 10 hours at 20 ° C ( on the bench ) 200g should be around 440g of soaked chickpeas . 1 cup of chickpeas is around 240g , so just shy of two cups of soaked chickpeas should do it
Starch is composed of two polymers ( linked chains ) of glucose ( sugar ) : Amylopectin and Amylose . Amylopectin is a branched and much larger molecule than Amylose . Starch molecules in a grain of rice are actually arranged in a semi-crystalline state . The granules are about 2μm in size in rice ( different plants have different granule sizes ) . Starch becomes soluble in water when heated . The granules swell and burst , the semi-crystalline state is lost , and the smaller amylose molecules leach out and form a network that holds water . Although the network of molecules holds water , it will of course have a larger volume than the volume of neatly-aligned molecules plus water . This process is called gelatinization . So you can imagine that in a dry rice grain , the strands of starch are like the fairly neatly stacked threads in my T-shirt , some shorter , some longer branched nets . As you heat it , the threads get moving and tangled up , absorbing the water , but also expanding even more in size like that big mess of lint in my clothes drier . A similar process happens with popping corn , except the water is contained in the kernel of corn and not added . It 's quite apparent to see how much larger the volume of a bowl of popped corn is compared to the small package of unpopped corn with water inside .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
I have just used the same mix and the same baking time , just using a mini muffin pan in place of a 9x9 or 9x13 pan . It worked quite well , although I suggest using the mini muffin liners in the pan , because cleaning all those individual spaces in the pan after brownie baking goes much smoother . I found that without the liners , the tiny brownies seemed to stick quite a bit , even in my good Pampered Chef pan .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
The General Mills site has the <URL> of the " original " pancake mix along with it 's nutrition facts . The serving size is 1/3 cup mix ( 40 g ) This means that one cup of the mix should weigh 120 g ( 4-1/4 oz ) .
Hotel pans are primarily used in institutional settings because everything is already made to fit them . Steam tables , prep coolers , etc , are all made to fit hotel pans and their fractional sizes . While I agree with the comments that they are n't generally the best pan suited to many tasks , they are great because they are fairly inexpensive and can be stacked and nested so easily . There are not , however , any specific sizes that you must have . Even restaurants only buy sizes that they need for specific tasks . For instance , I have worked very few places that had more than one or two full sized hotel pans , as those are usually only used as the water-holding layer of a steam table ( or occasionally to do roasts and the like ) . Basically , get the sizes that you think you will use . For instance , if nothing bigger than a 1/2 pan will fit in your oven , do n't get any full pans . If you primarily want them for refrigerated storage , only get the plastic cold table pans and lids in sizes that will fit in your refrigerator . If you are primarily using them for storage , I 'd highly recommend getting Cambro or Carlisle storage containers instead . They come in standardized sizes , have color coded lids , and nest neatly . They also have snug fitting lids , which hotel pans lack . The plastic cold table pans generally have loose lids that work in institutional settings for things that wo n't be stored longer than a few hours , but would n't be practical at home .
In the US , hamburgers are usually flat patties weighing somewhere between 3 and 8oz . and typically 100 % ground beef . Many variations are possible , including mixing spices and other ingredients into the meat , but binders such as egg and breadcrumbs are not common . The defining characteristics of a proper hamburger for most Americans are the shape ( flat ) , approximate size , beef as the primary ingredient , and sandwich-style presentation . A ground meat patty not made from beef is likely to be named differently ( lamb burger , turkey burger , etc. , even though the name ' hamburger ' has nothing to do with ham ) . Meatballs are smaller ( maybe 0.5 to 3oz ) , roughly spherical , more likely to be seasoned , much more likely to contain eggs and/or breadcrumbs as binders , made from just about any kind of meat , cooked differently , served differently . Also , the cultural traditions surrounding each are completely different . Spaghetti with meatballs and tomato sauce is classic comfort food ; spaghetti with hamburger is unthinkable . Meatballs are usually served in a sauce of some kind ; burgers ( beef or otherwise ) are served on a bun or bread with mayo , ketchup , mustard , melted cheese , lettuce , tomato , and so on . Many people like their hamburgers ( beef ) cooked rare or medium rare , but meatballs are always fully cooked . Meatballs can be held at temperature for a long time , or even cooked , chilled , and reheated ; only cafeterias and other low-quality , high volume restaurants would pre-cook and reheat a hamburger -- at home or at a good restaurant the burger would be served as soon as possible after cooking .
3 pounds of <URL> 1 pint of canned sauerkraut . Otherwise , 1 lb . = 2 cups cooked ; 1 lb . = 4 cups shredded . I would recommend you just weigh the cabbage when you buy it so you can have an idea of how much it will yield .
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
There are lots of styles of bread , which of course different people have different preferences for , and which lend themselves to different applications . First , what do the holes indicate ? The holes are pockets or cells in the gluten network in the loaf -- so the stronger the gluten network , the larger the holes can expand during proofing . similarly , the more active the yeast , or the longer the proof , the larger the holes will have the potential to expand . So large holes tend to be found in breads with strong gluten networks , which have longer proofing times . These loaves will have chewier texture , and yeastier flavor , which can be very delicious . For other applications , such as a typical US-style sandwich bread , the desire is for a more tender product , which is indicative of less gluten development ; also , large holes would let spreads or condiments soak through the bread more easily , which is not so desirable in a sandwich to be eaten out of hand . So these loaves are typically ones with smaller holes . So the holes are either a factor themselves ( as in sandwich bread ) , or indicative of other qualities of the loaf ( as in so-called artisan style bread ) -- but either way , they are a very visible indicator of the nature of the loaf , and so getting the desired holes will help get the desired loaf qualities . I am sure there are many more qualified bread experts who will give you a more detailed answer ...
From : <URL> Can sizes change over time , important if you are adapting an older recipe . Prior to 1980 's ) , # 303 was the popular size for most fruits and vegetables. ; No. 303 = 16-17 oz . ( 1 lb.-1 lb.-1 oz . ) = 2 cups = 4 servings ; Principal size for fruits and vegetables . Also some meat products , ready-to-serve soups , specialties . Tomato paste has , as far as I know , always come in size 1/2 ( 6 ounce ) cans , at least since I began using it , starting in the mid 1960s . Think this is what you are looking for . There are lots of information bits on line , search ; ' can sizes ' . cheers
In all the recipes I 've followed with a cup measurement ( volume ) of flour , it is unsifted . From what I 've read , if a recipe calls for sifted flour there 's two ways to do it : If it calls for " sifted flour " you sift the flour first , then measure it . If it calls for " flour , sifted " you measure first , then sift it .
<URL> makes quick cook steel cut oats . According to them , they 're just cut smaller . Quick Cooking Steel Cut Oats are simply whole oat groats that have been cut into neat little pieces on a specialized rotary granulator mill . We use high protein , whole grain oats that have been lightly toasted to create our hearty steel cut oats . Also known as Irish oats or pinhead oats , steel cut oats create a chewy , full-bodied hot cereal . Our Quick Cooking Steel Cut Oats are cut a little smaller than our Regular Steel Cut Oats , making them ready in a scant 5 to 7 minutes .
First , you must assume a spherical muffin . This is a silly but fun question , so lets think about the limiting factors . What if you could scale down everything ( the pan , the size of the ingredients , the size of the gas cells , everything else ) uniformly . If that could be done , muffin tops would be a uniform phenomenon at any size . So , what can we not scale down uniformly ? It seems to me that there are to major factors that can not be uniformly scaled down in actual practice : The cell-size of the starch matrix that is expanded by the leavening . It has a minimum size , and one would imagine that muffins must be macro-scaled compared to the cell size in order to work . Since the cell size is visible as the grain in an actual muffin , the muffin has an internal structure on the order of millimeters , typically ( I have n't baked muffins just now to measure their structure size ) based on my best guess and recollection . This is taking into account some of the larger scale structures within the muffin , like bubbles , and that " grain " which is composed of even finer " grains " . So one limiting factor would be that the muffin would have to be several orders of magnitude larger than tenths of millimeters , say three orders of magnitude . That would bring the limiting size of muffin-topped muffins to about a centimeter across . Heat penetration . We can assume the rate of cooking in the muffin is proportional to the radius of the muffin at any given size , as a first order approximation , for any given temperature . At some point , the muffin will either cook through before it can expand , or burn on the outside before it cooks through . The problem with tiny baked goods is that they are outside any effective balance of temperatures . Either they cook through and start drying out without any good crust development , or the outside is overdone before the inside gets cooked . The requirement for muffins is even more balanced : it has to heat the inside enough to trigger the oven spring from the leavening before the outside is set enough that it can not expand , while still being able to cook all the way through , set the outside , and get decent crust development . This is very hard to manage . Practically , it is likely that the current mini-muffin pan size ( a couple of centimeters across ) is about as small as you can go without having to start taking drastic measures with the recipe . The main problem is heat management : getting good oven spring without the muffin setting too fast , while cooking it through , and yet having nice crust development on the outside . You can have smaller baked goods , but they have a much simpler structure . They are called cookies . Most muffin batters would make an effective drop cookie , again probably down to about 2 cm . They would be essentially all muffin top . For a look at some of these practical factors , see : See also : <URL>
In baking , doubling sometimes is accurate , sometimes not . Yeah , that is a non-answer , but is true . It is not unsafe to double , or halve , but sometimes results will vary . You hit a point which could cause a slight issue , even distribution . Changing volume of a recipe with an ingredient which is distributed over the surface might affect the distribution ratio , though in this case I think it would likely be minor . Other issues can arise in doubling would be if the dough needs to breath . Thermal reactions can often affect results when doubling or halving recipes as well . The cooking time adjustments are often obvious , but cooling can be less obvious but disastrous at times , and any resting times needed may be skewed . All of that said , with allowing for baking time , and a little experimentation , most recipes can be safely doubled or halved , but tend to start breaking down beyond that , going for tripled , 4 times , etc tends to get progressively poor results without a lot of trial and error . It is certainly worth a try though . And alternate or fallback if you do not like the results of doubling is to make two separate batches , which you know will be correct .
end question
start question
How do I adapt to grilling without a lid ?
While if you have the opportunity to improvise a lid I recommend you do so as per the other answers , however it is n't always possible . I have unexpectedly been thrust into the " grill master " role when I 've shown up to parties and the charcoal is hot , food expensive , and nobody but me knows how . In situations like this you have to do the best you can with what you have , and sometimes you wo n't have a lid or anything you can use as one . The reasons you want a lid are that it evens the heat out , and reduces the oxygen supply to the fire which cools things down a bit and reduces flare-ups . Without a lid you will get a hotter temperature at the base of the grill and much cooler temperatures above , with fat having a much greater tendency to flare . You can still get good results through making good choices of what to cook , and good technique . Bad technique will lead to food that is burnt to a crisp on the outside and raw in the middle . There are some foods that you do n't need a lid for , in fact you should n't use one , like thin to medium cut steaks . Other foods like burgers you can use a lid or not and still get a good result . So part of your success will come from choosing the right things to cook . Thinner is better , as is picking foods that do n't necessarily have to be cooked through . Some food you just ca n't grill without a lid . Avoid anything that requires long , indirect heat like legs of lamb or roasting joints . Some food is best cooked with a lid , but you can get good results without one , like chicken and sausages . Your main problem is heat control , and flaring . Chicken and sausages need longer cooking temperatures , so the goal is to cook them through without burning the outside , you can do this by keeping them around the edge of the charcoal where they get enough heat , and dripping fat wo n't hit the coals and flare up . Turn them often , like once a minute to keep them from burning . If they are getting close to done and they do n't have enough char then you can move them to the center of the grill for a bit . It also helps to have some sort of baste to coat them with to keep them moist like bbq sauce or a marinade . With sausages you can cheat a bit by slicing them down the long way and cooking them flat a few minutes over high heat . If you are cooking different foods at the same time , like burgers , sausages , and chicken then separate your grill into zones . Burgers get high heat , sausages medium , and chicken low . If you want to cook mostly food that needs a medium to low heat then you will get a lot of mileage from arranging your charcoal intelligently , like in a long strip down the middle of the wide part of the grill , or in a square grill in a torus shape . This will give you much more area of your grill with the temperature you need . Really important for lidless grilling is a spray bottle full of water to put out flare-ups , a mist sprayed on the base of the flare works magic and it wo n't kick up ash all over your food .
The trick that works for me consistently is to put the beets in a sealed container while still hot and let them cool down that way , they continue to cook a bit and the steam from them keeps the skins loose . Also , peel them while they are still warm , if they cool too much the skins may adhere again .
I suggest you use royal icing instead of butter icing . Basically made from icing sugar ( powder sugar ) and egg white , it will cost very little and can still be coloured if necessary . Once you have tried out all the simple styles you scrape it off the board or work surface , mix it well and practice again . Store in a sealed air-tight container in the fridge for 1-2 days . This will give you time to make more intricate flowers , trellis , run out collars , nests , baskets , etc. on small squares of greaseproof paper , nails , etc. . Dry in an airy place and once completely set and hard , you can keep the results in a sealed container in a cool dry place for weeks to use as cake or cookie decorations . If you are really serious about becoming a sugar artist , it will be important to master royal icing , so you might as well start out with using it for " basic training " , so to speak .
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
A couple thoughts ... I have n't tried this , but I 've heard of people doing it . The microwave works relatively well to steam things . You could try " steaming " the dumplings in the microwave with a bit of water at the bottom of the dish or better yet , cover with a wet paper towel . You 'll probably need to do some experimenting unfortunately . Under " ideal " circumstances , I 'd probably prefer proper steaming , but this might work in a pinch . I imagine re-heating them would work well , but if cooking them works to your liking ... no sense cooking them twice . If you have a rice cooker , you could easily rig that up to " steam " as well . Just rig it up as if you were using a pot to steam it . Just make sure it is n't dry ...
You could fold with a heat-safe silicone spatula , that will let you reach the whole surface of the pan so you do n't get scorching , without introducing so many bubbles . Or if you happen to have a vacuum machine , put your sauce in a bag after you make it and vacuum out all of the air . Voila , bubbles gone .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
I 'd stew the raspberries down with a little water ( and sugar if the raspberries are n't sweet ) until they 're very soft , then pass the whole thing through a sieve to remove the seeds . You can then either store the result in the fridge , or pour it into an ice cube tray for easy portioning and a nice cold smoothie .
Open it up . If it 's soft and pale brown or darker inside too , it 's overripe and no longer good for eating straight ; however , it can be used in baking , banana bread , or smoothies . Once it 's black , the banana is garbage .
I 'd look into : contaminants the container you use lecithin ratio ( air ) moisture inert gas use ( which implies a different technique . <URL> to the <URL> s looks good . Perhaps it can help you out further .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
Harrold McGee indicates in On Food and Cooking that soaking brown rice for 20-30 minutes can speed the cooking . However , he does n't give any specifics . In looking to what I consider highly credible cooking web sites , I have not found any definitive answers . Cook 's Illustrated 's recommended method for the fastest , best tasting brown rice ( no link since it is probably on the pay site ) is : Boiling the rice for our brown rice recipe until it is almost tender ( about 30 minutes ) , draining it , then steaming it until done ( another five to 10 minutes ) is by far the best stovetop method for brown rice . <URL> ( 50 minutes steaming , 10 minutes resting ) is quite similar . <URL> recommends baking technique which may be delicious but is almost certainly the one that will heat your house the most : putting rice in a casserole covered with boiling water , and baking at 375 & deg ; F for 1 hour . You have actually asked two different questions : What is the fastest way to cook rice ( duration ) ? What is the most energy efficient way to cook rice ( least heating of your house ) ? These are not the same thing . Something to consider : of all liquid non-metals ( and I do n't think any of us are going to cook in molten iron ) , water has the the highest capacity to transfer heat . It is going to be very difficult to find a way to cook rice that is faster ( at least for actual time cooking the rice , when not counting bringing water to the boil ) than the traditional pasta method , as often employed in some parts of India : Bring water to a boil , add the rice , cook until done , and drain . However , the energy required to bring all of the surplus water to the boil and the enthalpy of vaporization will make this fast , but not efficient . Your most energy efficient rice production method ( and this is by the very laws of physics which govern our universe is also the one that will add the least heat to your home ) is almost certainly a rice cooker , which will heat only until it senses the rice is done . ( Of course , what the rice cookers are really measuring is the rise in temperature when the water is all absorbed or evaporated , and so the temperature can rise ; therefore , starting with the correct ratio of rice to water is critical ) . The bottom line : brown rice takes time to cook . Some rice cookers , however , let you set a timer so that the pot will have the rice ready when you come home . This might be your best bet .
There are lots of recipes for oven - " fried " sweet potato chips ( crisps ) and fries ( chips ) and I 'll let you search that part . I 've noticed a wide variation in recommended oven temperatures , from as low as 350 to as high as 450 . Though I 've never had great success with crispiness , my overall best results were with a temp of 425 . Crispiness with sweet potatoes is notoriously difficult due to the high water and sugar content ( which will caramelize and make them appear and to some extent taste burnt , usually long before they crisp up ) . There 's some discussion of this on <URL> . Key points seem to be : remove as much surface moisture as possible prior to cooking avoid overcrowding the pans , especially when cooking thicker cuts use a convection oven if possible If you have success please report back and tell us what worked !
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
I 'm going to take a wild guess at what 's happening , based on what I know of thermodynamics , ( but I could be wrong about the whole thing ) When a cakes and bread bakes , it bakes from the outside ... as it forms a crust , it can no longer rise . ( for yeast breads , this is why we slash the top , so it can get a little extra rise out of it ) With a cake , as the sides set , it 'll continue to rise in the middle , creating a domed top . With a metal tube pan , the heat from the outside of the pan conducts to the middle of the pan , so the middle will set shortly after the outside . ... With the silicone pan , you 've actually got an insulator ... the heat 's not going to conduct to the inside , so it 's going to be able to rise longer than around the inside -- basically , the domed cake , but you 've got something for it to stick to , so it does n't fall back down as it sets . As I do n't think the issue is distribution of the batter , I 'd recommend trying other techniques to reduce the domedness of the cake -- cook it at a lower temperature ( try 25F / 15C lower ) for a longer time . You ca n't remove the problem entirely , but you might be able to reduce it . I 'd also look at the instructions that might 've come with the pan -- it 's possible that they have reommendations on how to deal with the problem . ( and it 's possible that this might not be as significant a problem in convection ovens , but replacing your whole oven for a set of pans is kinda silly )
The bone structure is an excellent clue -- each of these three cuts have completely different bones -- and you should be able to learn to distinguish the muscle structures easily as well . ( There 's almost certainly a price difference , too -- I 'd expect a shoulder steak to be the cheapest , followed by leg , then loin and rib . ) I 've made some quick structural drawings , and I 'll try to describe them in detail . Rib and Loin <URL> The loin is a long piece of muscle running alongside the backbone and atop the ribs . It will be cut vertically , giving a oval/oblong cross-section somewhere around 4 " diameter . That oval is solid muscle , although there may be some streaks of fat . There will usually be another strip of muscle above it , and a strip of fat along the top and one side ( this was the pig 's insulating back fat ) . Opposite the fat will be a rib bone , if it has n't been removed . The bone will not be split , but it will be cut short at some point . It is convex towards the fat , and usually has some of the fat running down along its length . If the rib is there , the steak ( or " chop " ) will have a smaller oval of muscle below the loin , separated by fat , which would otherwise be served as part of the rib meat . As the cuts of the loin move backwards towards the leg , the tenderloin may begin to be incorporated , and the rib will disappear . The tenderloin is perhaps half the loin 's size , and appears on the opposite side from the loin of a slice of the backbone , which has a rib-like sideways protrusion . This cut is the " porterhouse " , also known as the " T-bone " if the steak were beef . It may also be called a " loin chop " , as opposed to the " rib chop " from futher forward . Rib/loin chop summary description : oval/oblong of solid meat with a strip of fat at one side , possibly an intact bone on the opposite side , curving towards the fat . Possibly two ovals of meat , one half the size and on the opposite side of a protrusion of split bone from the larger . Ham or Leg <URL> The part of the leg you 're getting for steaks is the upper part , i.e. the thigh , sliced horizontally . This has a single cylindrical bone -- the femur -- running through it , which will be around 1 1/2 " diameter and off-center . The thigh is basically oval in cross-section , and made up of several large muscles , with fascia ( silver skin ) and a small amout of fat between them , so you will see four to half a dozen large pieces of muscle in the steak . There may be a strip of fat along one side , and perhaps even some skin attached to that . A leg steak is the same cut as a " ham steak " , although " ham " is often used to mean that the meat has been cured , and possibly even cooked . Leg summary description : Oval-shaped steak with a circular slice of bone off-center . The steak is composed of half a dozen sections of meat , possibly separated by thin strips of fat , and may have a strip of fat on one outer side . Shoulder or Blade <URL> The shoulder is a beautiful cut of meat on a pig , made up of dozens of pockets of marbled muscle , connected and wrapped by intermuscular fat , as well as an extension of the loin . Like leg , a shoulder also has just one bone , the blade ( which connects via a socket to the arm-bone near the bottom of the shoulder ) . The shoulder blade ( scapula ) is somewhere in the center of the shoulder , and is , as you would expect , a thin , arrow-head-shaped formation , with a flat ridge running down its center ; from the top , it looks a bit like U +22 A6 : ⊦ . ( This protrusion or spur points to the outside of the pig . ) Therefore , a slice across this shoulder muscle will be made up of several pieces of white-streaked muscle , held in a web of fat , and it will either have a fully-enclosed thin segment of bone in it , or a split where the bone was removed . With the bone left in , I believe the cuts are usually made horizontally , and the muscle segments may appear larger ( they are mostly longer than they are tall ) . With it removed , the slice could be made vertically , in which case you will see more , and smaller , pieces . There may also be a strip of fat along one side of a shoulder steak ; this is the same under-skin fat that you saw in both other cuts . Shoulder summary description : Vaguely rectangular piece of meat , with a thin slice of bone in the center . The bone may have a perpendicular ridge . The meat is in many small pieces and is webbed with fat . For less diagrammatic images , this <URL> seems to have some good photos of the various cuts , grouped by the section of the pig .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
( Storage note : do not wash the bulbs before storing them ; place in plastic bag in the refrigerator . Wash just before using . ) Young kohlrabi is great raw . Peel first , then add to salads ( sliced or grated ) serve as part of a veggie platter w / dip grate it and add to slaw ( but after grating it , put some salt on it &amp; let it sit , then squeeze the water out of it ) puree it - here 's someone who really loves it pureed : <URL> Cooked kohlrabi can be steamed or boiled . Remove the skin after cooking . You can eat the leaves , if they are still firm and green ; use them within a couple of days . Wash the leaves &amp; remove the tough stem parts ( ribs ) . Blanch in boiling water for a couple of minutes , drain , chop , and serve with a bit of butter , salt , and pepper . A little vinegar or lemon juice is good on them , too .
Chicken is difficult to get right in a smoker . Cooking at really low temperatures can result in a rubbery skin . Chicken is one meat where I 've never seen the need to go low/slow . Brine the bird if you 're worried about drying it out or if you want to get some extra flavor into the meat , but it 's not necessary . In any event , make sure you get the skin dry before cooking . Overnight in the fridge should do the trick . I like to rub the skin with vegetable oil and BBQ rub ( or sometimes just salt &amp; pepper ) and cook it at around 300-350f on the smoker . Not only does it cook faster , it also does n't take on an overwhelming amount of smoke .
end question
start question
What is substitute for rum in baking ?
The most accurate substitution would simply be <URL> . It is concentrated rum with a huge kick of flavor , and much less alcohol . A little goes a long way . If you 're going to stick with a strong liquor my first choice would be a <URL> , it 's a similarly " sweet " liquor that tastes good in baking . Another good option would be <URL> . If you 're avoiding liquor , then you may be able to use vanilla extract . Non-alcoholic varieties are available . According to <URL> you can also use molasses thinned with pineapple juice . The rum is used simply for flavor .
Peanut and canola are vegetable oils . Vegetable oil is a catch-all term , it 's not asking for a product labelled " vegetable oil " although you can buy it in the store . Oils labelled vegetable oil are blends and can be any proportion of things like canola ( rapeseed ) , peanut , corn , sunflower , etc. . Just do n't use Olive oil , it is a vegetable oil but it wo n't be good for cakes ! Different vegetable oils will give different properties although most will give you about the same result . Canola is flavorless and relatively light while peanut is a bit richer and , well , peanut-y . The differences in your cake will be subtle , however .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
First off , try digestive biscuits . They 're really very similar cookies/crackers/biscuits , and it 's a common enough substitution that it 's even <URL> . <URL> implies that they 're called wheatmeal biscuits in Australia . sourd ' oh 's suggestion of particularly crunchy gingersnaps might work too , but you 'll also want to make sure they 're not too spicy ! ( Unfortunately , I do n't know about specific varieties since I 'm not Australian . )
You can use agave nectar instead of honey or sugar if you modify your recipe a bit by lowering the amount of liquids . Agave nectar has more water than honey and is sweeter than honey ( about 50 % sweeter ) . Honey Fructose : 41 % , Glucose : 36 % , Water : 18 % Agave nectar Fructose : 53 % , Glucose : 15 % , Water : 25 % As a starting point in modifying the recipe , keep the amount of water fixed by using less agave nectar than honey ( amount of agave = 0.72 amount of honey ) . Also , dishes made with agave nectar will brown faster than those made with honey because of the agave 's higher fructose content . Start checking a little earlier .
The most accurate substitution would simply be <URL> . It is concentrated rum with a huge kick of flavor , and much less alcohol . A little goes a long way . If you 're going to stick with a strong liquor my first choice would be a <URL> , it 's a similarly " sweet " liquor that tastes good in baking . Another good option would be <URL> . If you 're avoiding liquor , then you may be able to use vanilla extract . Non-alcoholic varieties are available . According to <URL> you can also use molasses thinned with pineapple juice . The rum is used simply for flavor .
Bourbon , <URL> is aged in a fresh oak barrel . The oak heartwood naturally contains aromatic compounds including ( you guessed it ) vanillin -- the primary flavor component of vanilla itself . But beyond the already-present aromatics , the wood is further treated to produce even more flavor . About 20 % of the oak 's mass is made of lignins . When exposed to temperatures of 750 ° F the lignin breaks down to more aromatics including , once again , vanillin . Your bourbon barrel is charred in an open gas burner for 15 -- 45 seconds , making these flavors ready for extraction into your bourbon . The alcohol will then be able to further break down some of the solid mass and dissolve the aromatics . So bourbon is a good vanilla substitute because of the relatively high portion of vanillin that it contains
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
What I ended up doing was using 1/2 tsp of almond aroma and 1 tbsp of vodka . The taste was good , but I could have put much more vodka . I 'll do that next time .
Scottish , Use equal amounts of ginger to substitute for galangal . And yes , it is the best substitute available from your average non-Asian grocery store . If you can get your hands on dried , powdered galangal , however , you can do better . Add about half the amount of ginger , and around midway through cooking add a teaspoon of powdered galangal for every tablespoon of fresh in the recipe . The combination of fresh ginger and powdered galangal will be very close to fresh galangal in flavor . Also , if you make a field trip to an Asian market , peeled galangal cut into chunks freezes quite well .
All that is meant here by " turn out " is to take the mass that you have begun to mix in the bowl , and dump it all onto your ( floured ) counter to begin kneading . Turn out just means to dump . To move .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
A mother culture is sometimes known as a starter dough and is a fermenting dough that is used to ' start ' the fermentation process in the bread you are going to make by adding a bit of the starter dough to the dough you are making . Mainly sourdough I think , but I believe you can use different mothers for different breads . The starter dough is ' fed ' flour and water to keep it alive and going , and then used everyday to make the days bread . The mother can then be kept going for many years and gives the bread made using it a distinctive flavour . At least that 's my understanding , I 'm hoping to get a more detailed picture from this and the answer to my question ... Some information <URL> and also on <URL>
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
In the Caribbean and other Rum producing areas , you find Rum in all sorts of recipes It is sometimes an unusual flavour pairing , but not necessarily bad . In savoury cooking it adds a semi-burnt sweetness , more like toffee or butterscotch than straight Rum Caribbean and Mexican cooking is well blended and harmonious with many common ingredients ( chilli , coriander , avocado etc. ) Considering the popularity of spicy jerk meat and Rum , the Rum Fajitas would be an interesting experiment
Please do not use a cooking wine . Those are awful . Pick a juice , any juice . I 'd say cranberry . You probably do n't want anything too sweet .
They just use it for the lecithine . You can buy straight lecithine ( they normally sell soy-based lecithine , but maybe you should check with the producer to make sure it is vegetarian ) and dissolve some in the cream . Do n't bother replacing the fat , truffels have enough from other sources .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
Saltpeter is potassium nitrate , which does not directly cure meats . Bacteria convert nitrate into nitrite , which is the real preservative . Saltpeter can be replaced by a smaller amount of nitrite to get the same curing effect ( most commercial cured meats do this ) , though a prolonged cure that converts nitrate into nitrite can develop more flavor . Tender Quick is not a direct substitute because it contains mostly salt . I 've heard that you can replace the salt in your recipe with Tender Quick , and drop the saltpeter , and have a success . You would have better luck finding a recipe that was meant to use Tender Quick , though . It is definitely possible to buy ( food-grade ! ) saltpeter . I would check online , or at specialty stores . It 's a little more difficult than picking it up at your local grocery store , of course . ( Chemistry lesson , courtesy of McGee : nitrate ( NO3 ) is converted to nitrite ( NO2 ) , which then reacts to form nitric oxide ( NO ) , which bonds to myoglobin in the meat , which turns it pink and prevents oxidation . Nitric oxide is also present in smoke , which gives that " pink ring " around the outside of smoked meats . )
end question
start question
How do you cook corn on the cob on BBQ ?
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
The big key is just to soak the plank before using it , that way it wo n't burn while it 's in the oven . The amount of time needed to soak seems to differ among experts , but soaking for an hour should be long enough to cook the salmon without the wood burning .
Typically that would be whatever was used for dusting the loaves or the bannetons , either flour , starch or sometimes <URL> . It is done to prevent sticking and for decorative purposes - often both : <URL> ( <URL> )
The collagen in the ribs needs to get to a temperature of about 160 F to start breaking down into water and gelatin . If your oven can be set as low as 175 or 180 F on a normal bake or convection bake setting that is probably a better alternative unless you have access to an oven thermometer and can measure what temperature the warm setting on your oven attains .
You probably misread the recipe . It 's suggested that dry beans soak overnight so that they cook in a reasonable amount of time the next day ( unless you use a pressure cooker . ) There is no need to soak barley , pearled or not . It 's my guess that you mistook the bean soaking for barley in the recipe . That , or it 's a typo .
By hunting chicken in a game preserve ? ;-) <URL> The essence of poaching chicken is a gentle boil in water , stock or other flavorful liquid . I really like poaching chunks of chicken in a thin sweet-and-sour sauce , then thickening the sauce , adding pineapple chunks , and serving over rice .
It may already be an implicit assumption , but I think that time to cook is probably not as important as how to cook . While the power setting does affect the time to cook , the importance of time is to control how hot the parts of the food get . As with all cooking , there is a need to control temperature . Running the microwave at less than full power allows time for the heat to be conducted from the hot parts to the cool parts . It is similar to searing vs. sauteeing . I think that the accuracy of most microwave oven 's power settings are good enough ( my own testing shows about 10 % ) . I would be more concerned about how I wanted the item cooked . Some examples : When I want to reheat things like a thick soup , I run the microwave at full power for a short period of time , stir , and run the microwave again . Stirring the concoction distributes the heat faster than the conduction process . When I want to defrost frozen foods ( think meat ) , I use the lowest power setting . This prevents the edges of the food from getting cooked .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
I always go with my gut in these situations , so scraping it off is probably a good idea . If the green was not really dark and moldy looking , or really soft in comparison to the rest of the flesh , it could be that it just was n't fully ripe yet in that area . Either way , you 're planning on cooking the squash , correct ? I believe that this would be perfectly safe to eat now that the questionable parts have been removed . I 'd eat it with no qualms . If the rest of the squash was firm , and not bad looking on the outside or inside , then I am guessing this is not a problem , unless said green part was much softer than the rest of the squash .
Most likely you just need to turn up the heat a bit . Moving the rack higher might help too . It 's a little hard to say without actually measuring your oven , but that kind of thing can happen if your oven 's just a bit cooler than it claims to be . So it 'll take a little longer than the recipe says to bake , but the lower temperature means it wo n't brown as nicely . Turning up the heat will get more browning done by the time the center 's done .
If you do n't want gritty bread , use finely milled polenta . Roughly milled polenta is like semolina , and results in a gritty batter . Finely milled polenta is like flour , and results in a smooth batter . I do n't know the proper names for the different milling grades in English . I do n't mean cornflour , which is pure maize starch from the inside of the maize kernel . I mean whole maize kernels milled so the particles are the same size as wheat flour . It is yellow and tastes the same way as the rough one , only the texture is different . The two types of polenta differ in their water absorption and soaking times , so you may want to use a recipe developed for the fine milled type , or tweak your own recipe . To give you a better example , here is what you need : You do n't want to use the rough form , which looks like this :
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
I wonder where you have read it . Your link does n't help , maybe you linked the wrong question ? It talks about using a stainless pan with oil . If you are talking about true saute ( very quick movement of bite-sized pieces of food on a very hot pan ) , it is completely impossible without oil . If you are misusing the term to mean shallow frying , you can do it without oil in a coated pan , if you take care not to overheat to the point of damaging the coating . Stainless steel pans have to always be used with oil or other fats , else they will stick . The taste of food browned without fat ( in a coated pan ) will also be different from that of food browned in fat , because fat is needed for important flavor-producing reactions . It is up to you if you like the different taste or not . You can braise food in a broth , meaning that you put a small amount of broth in the pan , add the food and wait for it to cook through . This works with stainless steel pans too . But this is not comparable to either sauteeing or shallow frying . The temperature does not exceed 100 Celsius , which is way too low for Maillard and other flavor-developing reactions . So , if your recipe calls for sauteeing , browning , grilling or frying the food , you can not use this method as a substitute . In summary , you seem to have been misinformed . This is not possible , frying always requires oil , and browning without oil requires a PTFE coated pan ( or a fresh ceramic coated one - they tend to lose their antistick properties with time ) . Update You can sweat vegetables without oil , as mentioned in the corrected link . This is very different from both the true sauteeing you will find in textbooks and the quick browning usually meant in recipes which call to start with sauteing the ingredients . The result are softened vegetable pieces suitable for e.g. stir frying or mixing into chunky sauces . If you are going to make a soup or stew , do n't bother using it instead of browning , as it does n't add flavor and a soup does n't mind the vegetables weeping into it . For other applications , you can try it and decide if the taste is good enough for your purposes . The process is simple . Cut your vegetables finely ( in the 4-7 mm range ) . Pour 3-5 mm of water into the pan and add a level layer of vegetables , up to 1.5 cm thick . Turn on the stove on slow to medium heat and leave them largely undisturbed . Wait until they are done - they will have softened and lost some moisture . As you are not using oil , you have to watch the food closely , because if all the liquid evaporates , the food will heat enough to stick and scorch . But do n't stir much , because the vegetables need time in contact with the pan/broth to heat through , not to get a new side exposed to the heat each second . You could do it with constant stirring , this is the risotto method , but you will end up with preparation times similar to risotto ( > 40 min ) while waiting for the vegetables to heat through despite the stir . So it takes a little experience to know when the bottom of the vegetables is done but the liquid is not yet evaporated , without stirring to take a look at what is happening on the bottom . In the end , it is up to you to decide if you really want to bother . You get a higher probability of failure ( risk of scorching it ) , higher effort ( the need to watch it closely ) and less taste . If you feel that the fat reduction makes up for it , do it .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Rust , or iron oxide , is not poisonous , unless consumed in large amounts . Thus it is relatively safe to grill on your barbeque . What about the people who get cut by rusty nails and get lockjaw ? That 's not due to the rust , but rather , due to the bacteria on the rust , which is called , <URL> , which is found in the soil , and presumably , the nails have had come in contact with the soil , and so actually contains some of these deadly bacteria , and so , when a wound is made by the sharp object , the sharp object ( nail ) will also infect the wound causing tetanus , or lockjaw . Which is totally irrelevant to your grill , as I assume , it has n't actually come in contact with the soil has it ? So , it 's safe , relatively
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
This is what <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has to say about it : Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost . And instead of light and fluffy , most often they are dense and crumbly . We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems . Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan , absorbed by the salt , and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes , making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy . All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables . Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry , crisp skin . A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we did n't have to crowd the potatoes , and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan . I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy , without it getting hard . Like the above says , the potato itself seems fluffier . The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well . Incidentally , you can reuse the salt over and over again , so it 's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method . You 'll want to keep separate salt for things like this , though , since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit . EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish ( for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt ) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F ( 232C ) for 1 1/4 hours . Remove foil , brush potatoes with oil , raise oven temp to 500F ( 260C ) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes , until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy .
A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100 ° F ( 4-38 ° C ) ( i.e. room temperature ) . It 's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature . In fact , you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour . However , defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time . I 'm not so good at this , which leads to a safe and fast solution : Defrost meat in a waterproof ziploc bag in cold water . Change the water every 30 minutes until defrosted . The water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the defrosting is quite fast and the water is cold so there 's minimal safety risk . From the <URL> : Uh , oh ! You 're home and forgot to defrost something for dinner . You grab a package of meat or chicken and use hot water to thaw it fast . But is this safe ? What if you remembered to take food out of the freezer , but forgot and left the package on the counter all day while you were at work ? Neither of these situations are safe , and these methods of thawing lead to foodborne illness . Food must be kept at a safe temperature during " the big thaw . " Foods are safe indefinitely while frozen . However , as soon as food begins to defrost and become warmer than 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) , any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to multiply . Foods should never be thawed or even stored on the counter , or defrosted in hot water . Food left above 40 ° F ( unrefrigerated ) is not at a safe temperature . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food is in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F ( 4 ° C and 60 ° C ) -- at temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When defrosting frozen foods , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw food in the refrigerator where food will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . There are three safe ways to defrost food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . Refrigerator Thawing Planning ahead is the key to this method because of the lengthy time involved . A large frozen item like a turkey requires at least a day ( 24 hours ) for every 5 pounds of weight . Even small amounts of frozen food -- such as a pound of ground meat or boneless chicken breasts -- require a full day to thaw . When thawing foods in the refrigerator , there are several variables to take into account . Some areas of an appliance may keep the food colder than other areas . Food placed in the coldest part will require longer defrosting time . Food takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator set at 35 ° F ( 2 ° C ) than one set at 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) . After thawing in the refrigerator , ground meat and poultry should remain useable for an additional day or two before cooking ; red meat , 3 to 5 days . Foods defrosted in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking , although there may be some loss of quality . Cold Water Thawing This method is faster than refrigerator thawing but requires more attention . The food must be in a leak-proof package or plastic bag . If the bag leaks , bacteria from the air or surrounding environment could be introduced into the food . Also , meat tissue can also absorb water like a sponge , resulting in a watery product . The bag should be submerged in cold tap water , changing the water every 30 minutes so it continues to thaw . Small packages of meat or poultry -- about a pound -- may defrost in an hour or less . A 3 - to 4-pound package may take 2 to 3 hours . For whole turkeys , estimate about 30 minutes per pound . If thawed completely , the food must be cooked immediately . Foods thawed by the cold water method should be cooked before refreezing .
When cooking Chinese ribs , they are usually boiled down ... ( I am a cook from Hong Kong ) We usually cut the ribs bone-attached into small cubes before cooking , quite unlike the western cooking style . stir-frying : Usually we stir-fry the rib with a sauce of choice ; black bean and chili is my favourite . One can also use the sweet-sour ( sometimes with the ribs sort of diced with bone attached , fried with a flour dip ) , and chinese preserved vinegar ( This is often an unpleasent flavour for most foreigners who are n't familiar with it IMHO ) steaming : You can marinade the rib , either with black bean and chili or sometimes plum-sauce and a little bit of salt to taste . Then just throw it in there and steam it done . The resultant meat is nicely done and we mix the sauce with the rice to make it great tasting ( sort of a good idea when i 'm out of money and need to eat more rice , and less meat ... The sauce is then quite rich in pork fat though , unhealthy , pardon me ... ) braising : this one is often done with five spice , sometimes red preserved-tofu ( nam-yu , as we call it in cantonese ) . or you can make your own homemade marinade by using different amount of ( 1 ) soy-sauce , ( 2 ) salt , ( 3 ) pepper ( white ) and ( 4 ) sugar . Then stir-fry it , or saute it , then optionally you can add little bit of starch-water to get the ' sauce ' thickened , and serve . Sometimes we use the oyster sauce to marinade the food as well , but mind you that the quality differs , if you want the best , I would suggest ' lee-kam-kee ' premium , old-style oyster sauce for this purpose , for best result , add sugar .
end question
start question
How should I choose corn ?
A very fresh , ripe ear of corn will have a moist , green , unblemished husk ; when peeled back , its silk will also moist and clinging to the kernels . In the store , you may find that an ear of corn will have a slightly dried out husk , but if it 's still green and the kernels look plump when the husk is pulled back , that ear 's fine . Ignore any husks that are very dry with rotten-looking , off-smelling silk tops .
I have tried a number of similar tools and find that the Pampered Chef " <URL> " to be the best-in-breed for choppers . It is sturdy , it is well built and will last . reliable , after cleaning it assembles easily and works consistently easy to clean , opens up easily and is dishwasher safe . I find this model works well for small chopping tasks , such as those advertised with the " slap chop " . If you have more than " a handful " of material to chop you will do well to divide it into smaller bundles . Much more and it is time to move to a larger device . Mine if 5-6 years old , with no signs of slowing down . I am not a Pampered Chef rep I do not broadly endorse their products . Many of their items are " not so good "
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
I mostly agree with GdD 's answer , but I 'll add a couple more comments . This may be an obvious answer , but I 'd generally follow the recommendation on the specific bottle . Some sauces will clearly state " refrigerate after opening , " and others wo n't . The Frank 's FAQ <URL> is an example of these sorts of instructions : two specific products recommend refrigeration , but in other cases for Frank 's hot sauces it is n't required ( " but doing so will keep the product fresher for a longer period of time " ) . I 've also seen an occasional product that said refrigeration " recommended " or something on the package . I 'd generally assume that if a manufacturer bothers to say something about refrigeration , it 's a good idea to do it . Sometimes it may be for food safety , but in other cases it may just be a product with ingredients that will lose flavor or degrade rapidly at room temperature . Most hot sauces wo n't degrade noticeably at room temperature even over a period of several months , and many will be stable for a couple years . Others will change flavors slowly over time at room temperature , but not necessarily in a negative way . ( Some sauces are deliberately " aged " or fermented at room temperature for periods from a week to several years , and sometimes these processes will continue to change the product even after it is bottled . Some sauces will undergo natural browning reactions at room temperature as well , which can alter flavor . I know some people who actually prefer hot sauce this way , though I 'm personally skeptical . ) If there 's a " best before " date on your sauce and no instruction to refrigerate , you can probably assume the sauce is supposed to maintain quality at least that long without refrigeration . However , that does n't guarantee that it will stay exactly the same over that period . As GdD said , refrigeration will almost always keep the sauce more stable .
If you do n't want gritty bread , use finely milled polenta . Roughly milled polenta is like semolina , and results in a gritty batter . Finely milled polenta is like flour , and results in a smooth batter . I do n't know the proper names for the different milling grades in English . I do n't mean cornflour , which is pure maize starch from the inside of the maize kernel . I mean whole maize kernels milled so the particles are the same size as wheat flour . It is yellow and tastes the same way as the rough one , only the texture is different . The two types of polenta differ in their water absorption and soaking times , so you may want to use a recipe developed for the fine milled type , or tweak your own recipe . To give you a better example , here is what you need : You do n't want to use the rough form , which looks like this :
The most obvious difference is that a highball glass is much larger : 8 to 12 ounces as opposed to 4.5 ounces for a martini glass . Cocktails served traditionally in a larger glass usually include a large quantity of mixers , such as a Tom Collins ( served traditionally in a Collins glass , 10-14 oz , though a highball would be appropriate ) , which only contains about 2oz of gin and is topped off with a large quantity of soda water , or a Cuba Libre ( traditionally served in a highball glass ) , which contains mostly Coca-Cola with a small amount of rum . On the other hand , cocktails served traditionally in smaller stemware , such as the Martini , may contain nothing but the alcoholic ingredients ( gin and vermouth ) . Therefore , they require smaller quantities before one would be inebriated , and thus are served in smaller glasses . Furthermore , stemmed glasses keep your hand further from the ( presumably cold ) drink , thus keeping it colder longer , important for drinks traditionally served neat ( whereas a highball would have room for ice ) . If you ask an enthusiast , the shape of the stemware used can be crucial ; for example , red wine apparently tastes better after oxidation , so red wine glasses maximize surface area to increase the amount of wine that oxidizes , while white wines do not oxidize well . Champagne needs to stay bubbly , so a champagne flute tries to minimize the amount of bubbles that escape , while some alcohols have a pleasant aroma and thus benefit from wider glasses like a sherry glass that maximize the amount of aroma that escapes . However , for many average consumers , stemware is stemware is stemware . The differences may or may not be enough to be noticeable to people who are not wine enthusiasts . I would say , if you 're looking to stock a kitchen , get a couple types of stemware you find attractive and improvise rather than trying to make every drink in its own special glass .
No , you do n't have to freeze it at all . The recipe you linked is indeed for puff pastry . It is rather tedious to create it , so it is available in supermarkets as a pre-fabricated food , just like pizza dough and other doughs . But it does n't have a long shelf life in the fridge , so it is sold frozen . The recipe assumes that you will buy it frozen , and warns you to let it come to room temperature before you start baking . If you are making your own , the end product can be used in cookies immediately . Just pay attention to follow proper technique and work with a very cold dough and butter while making the puff pastry . The link you posted probably explains it - if not , search for better instructions .
Good question ! Corn is very versatile . I 've found that fresh and frozen whole kernel corn are very interchangeable when used in casseroles . Most casseroles cook long enough that you could use either without making any adjustments . However , canned corn is a different animal . Because it is more processed I would use it in recipes that call for it but I would not consider it a substitute for fresh or frozen .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
You do n't have to peel garlic before using a garlic press , but doing so lets you press more garlic before you have to clean out the skins and so forth . If you only need to press a clove or two , there is not a lot of reason to peel first , since you will just have to clean the press out once .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
A Southerner will probably tell you that there is no type of BBQ sauce to go with this type of pulled pork because it 's not actually real pulled pork ... or real BBQ . Authentic pulled pork is smoked , and that comes with a completely different set of pairings . This is technically just braised , shredded pork . Which is not meant as a criticism , mind you - I often make a similar recipe in the winter time using a dutch oven . But terminology is important here because there 's a huge difference in flavour between pulled pork and braised pork . I 'll note for the record that any kind of slow-cooking will make a pork shoulder fall right apart ; you do not need the root beer ( which is n't that acidic anyway , and <URL> ) to tenderize the pork . The heat and moisture do that all by themselves , although root beer is as good a choice as any if you 're braising . Now onto the flavouring . Because the braise , unlike smoke , only minimally flavours the meat , you 're going to need strong flavours from elsewhere . If you 're really trying to mimic an authentic Southern-style pulled pork then you need to incorporate the smoky flavour somehow , which means using a smoky BBQ sauce ( hickory is common ) or better yet , incorporate this flavour at the very beginning of the cooking process by applying a dry rub containing smoked paprika or including a small amount of liquid smoke in the braise . If you do use a rub then the other flavours are up to you - there are plenty of recipes out there - just do n't use salt in it because pork already has plenty . As with any braise , stick to aromatics like garlic/onion powder , various chili powders/peppers , cinnamon , etc. . Once you 've successfully incorporated the smoke ( or what passes for smoke in indoor cooking ) then a little sauce goes a long way . Definitely incorporate some of the leftover braising liquid so as not to waste those delicious drippings - I use about half of it but that 's with a much milder braise . Ketchup and dijon mustard in a 50/50 to 60/40 ratio is very simple and surprisingly effective when mixed in with the juices . If you still find this to be lacking punch , you can throw in some cider vinegar , which pairs well with both the pork shoulder and your root beer braise . I actually boil off the pan ( after reserving some braising liquid ) and use cider vinegar as a deglazer for the fond , but since you 're using a crock pot ( or equivalent ) , you probably wo n't have much/any fond and this would require an extra vessel , so ... just throw a splash or two into the finished sauce , and reduce if that makes it a bit watery . Worcestershire sauce is also a good way to punch up any homemade sauce , and if it starts to get too intense or tangy from either that or the vinegar , tone it down with some brown sugar or molasses if you have any . If you 're dead-set on following the recipe to the letter , then , as above , I think I 'd choose a hickory or mesquite sauce , something smoky and not overly thick . Some of the better brands/products will actually include a small amount of alcohol , like whisky or bourbon . Almost all will contain onion , garlic , paprika , sugar , molasses , and vinegar ( often cider vinegar , as above ) - not surprisingly , exactly the same kinds of ingredients as I 'm suggesting in the dry rub and homemade sauce .
Do n't take anything that costs much : You may have it taken away from you by border controls . In some parts of the world being able to confiscate nice things is a perk of the job . You want to enter ( or leave ) the country , you part with the knife . It could also be illegal to bring in knives over a certain size Hostels are famous for being rife with theft . Having some nice folding knife just begs for someone to take it Traveling is hard on equipment It does n't really matter anyway : who cares about the knife , anything will do . Ingredients and technique are what matters If I were you I 'd get a cheap , short cooking knife from some hardware store . Also make sure it looks like a cooking knife , you do n't want anything that could be mistaken for a weapon ! If you lose it , or it gets stolen , or broken , or you give it to someone who needs it more than you do then you just buy another cheap knife at a market somewhere . If you have an expensive piece of equipment it 's just another worry .
You may very well be able to make that system work for you , but in the two fine-dining restaurants I 've worked , the system is less paperwork-intensive and more common-sense . It is based on organized storage , adding new product where it will be used after the old , and labeling . This lets you see at a glance what you have and how old it is , rather than having to constantly maintain an up-to-date inventory list . It also makes it easy to find what you want . The system works like so : Organize your storage so food goes in the same spot every day . This way you can find see at a glance what you have and what you need . It also makes it easier to find things . New food of the same type goes behind the old stuff , and is n't opened until the old product is used up . This prevents you from discovering the dreaded Green Milk lurking at the back of the fridge . ALWAYS label prepared food with the date , using masking tape and a permanent marker . Make sure the label ( or container 's expiration date ) is toward the front . You do n't want to have to sniff-test old food . Trust me . Store in clear containers , so you see how much is left . Inventory perishable foods before purchasing more . Toss spoiled or questionable food promptly . This prevents " unpleasant surprises , " and avoids contaminating nearby stuff . Cool food as fast as possible , to prevent bacterial growth . Hot water holds a lot of heat , so it gets pre-chilled in an ice water bath ; otherwise it can stay warm and breed bacteria for HOURS . Containers can be left open for an hour or two in the fridge to cool contents faster . At home , I use a very similar system , with a few modifications : Pre-packaged containers get labelled with an opened-on date , because usually this determines when they spoil more than the expiration date . Expiration dates are just rough estimates . <URL> provides more detailed information , but I do n't refrigerate any kind of leftover more than a week . High-protein foods , or things with egg in them get less time . If it smells even a little off , it 's probably unsafe , with the exception of milk and produce . They will only make you WISH they could kill you . Only buy produce you can use before the next grocery run ... unless it 's really cheap and can be used up easily . Yes , fresh tomatoes are amazing to cook with . They 're slightly less awesome when half of your 5 pounds spoil , unused . Do n't buy fresh meat or fish without a specific meal plan , or at least a schedule for use . This prevents these expensive , perishable foods from sitting in the fridge and spoiling . This does n't have to be a detailed day-by-day meal plan , but the minute you take to think before buying prevents impulse buys and helps make sure you 'll have the time and ingredients to cook the food before it goes bad . I know the last point can be difficult , but remember that a meal plan might be no more than " make myself a nice steak over the weekend . " The idea is to avoid buying meat on Sunday that you wo n't have time to cook until next Friday . If you have to , buy meat right before cooking a nice meal ; at least then it will be fresh . Freezing is also a good backup plan , but only if done fairly early .
A very fresh , ripe ear of corn will have a moist , green , unblemished husk ; when peeled back , its silk will also moist and clinging to the kernels . In the store , you may find that an ear of corn will have a slightly dried out husk , but if it 's still green and the kernels look plump when the husk is pulled back , that ear 's fine . Ignore any husks that are very dry with rotten-looking , off-smelling silk tops .
Short answer : I 've only heard good things about the CCK # 1 small slicer , and would suggest that . If you 're new to the style of knife , pick up a cheap carbon-steel Dexter Russell one for like $ 20-25 at your local Chinatown . Long answer : Chinese slicer knives ( more commonly called Chinese cleavers ) are multipurpose knives , so they fill the same niche as French-style chef knives . They 're common options for cheap restaurant knives , and I 've seen them used professionally . I now use a Dexter Chinese Cleaver as my primary knife at home . The common features of Chinese cleavers are a squared-off , deep , often carbon steel blade , bamboo barrel-style handle , and pure awesomeness . Generally the blades are around 200mm long x 75-90mm deep , or about 8 " x 3 " . As you note , the blades are not as heavy or thick as German-style cleavers , so they ca n't handle bone . Although they get mentioned a lot for vegetable chopping , Chinese cleavers are remarkably flexible for both meat and vegetables . You can find videos of Chef Martin Yan <URL> with a Chinese cleaver . The deep blade makes chopping thick objects simple , where the squared corner is remarkable for fine detail work . The spine of the knife can be used to tenderize meat or scrape cutting boards . The broad blade is perfect for transferring cut product to a pan . You can even use the handle for crushing spices ! The carbon steel blades can be love or hate for many people . Personally , I love how mine takes and holds an edge comparable to the most expensive stainless steels . The fly in the ointment is that they can rust right before your eyes if you cut lemons or acidic tomatoes . They should always be cleaned and dried PROMPTLY after use , to avoid rust . Between use , I oil mine lightly with vegetable oil , as an extra precaution . Between this and the water-intolerance of the bamboo handle , they do need some special care . Although stainless-steel cleavers are becoming more common , I really think it defeats the point if you use one . They 're supposed to be cheap and ugly , but workhorses . A good Chinese cleaver should n't set you back more than $ 50 in your local Chinatown or online ... mine was about $ 25 and it does dang fine , though I will probably upgrade to a CCK # 1 eventually .
If it 's from an animal that is " young at heart " ( veal/calf ) , it may be tender enough to cut into thin strips and pan-fry or grill quickly as " steaks . " Do n't overcook , or they will be really tough , and you 'll be heartbroken . But to get to the heart of the matter , if it 's really an adult beef heart , it 's too tough and chewy to cook quickly . Braising is my preferred method and the one closest to my heart . This is one of those things can cook all day and will eventually become incredibly tender -- tasting like a slightly unusual and hearty pot roast . You can also stuff them and then either braise or roast them -- again , " low and slow " heat is the most heart-friendly . If you roast it , also be sure there is enough moisture in the stuffing ( i.e. , leave a " soft spot " in your heart ) , or else it can dry out during a long bake . ( You can also " roast " it in a dutch oven or something . ) When you open up your heart after cooking , a dry stuffing will just leave you with a heavy heart . A final option is to use it as stew meat . It will take longer to cook than most stew meats , so you might want to simmer for a while first before adding vegetables . Then cook until the flavors come together and your heart 's content . Once , when I had leftovers after making a stuffed heart , I was just going eat it , but then I had a change of heart . I chopped up the tender meat and added it to chili . It probably was about 1/3 of the overall meat in the chili , along with some diced chuck chunks and some ground beef . It came out incredibly good : there was a deep earthy flavor that really worked well . I served it to a number of friends without explaining the dish , and they did n't notice anything unusual ; I did n't have the heart to tell them . In fact , a number of people said it was some of the best chili they had tasted , which was really heartwarming to hear . Take heart ! There are lots of ways to cook it . Any slow-cooking method or recipe you might use for a tough cut of beef will probably work -- just follow your heart . ( I am actually serious about all of these methods -- but , okay , truly sorry about the puns . From the bottom of my ... )
You should n't cook more than a few minutes , and should cool them as quickly as possible afterwards . Ideally , you 'll be blanching them , and here 's how : Bring a pot of water with a pinch of salt in it to a roiling boil Dump beans in , and cook for a few minutes Check that beans are fully cooked ( time will vary by variety and ripeness of beans ) Strain beans , and IMMEDIATELY transfer to an prepared ice water bath to cool as fast as possible This ensures beans are precisely cooked , but do not have a chance to over-cook , and using the ice water helps them retain color and flavor . It 's how we get deliciously crisp haricot vert ( French green beans ) at the restaurant I work for . Note that cooking times and crispness will also vary based on the variety and age at which the beans were picked .
Unless you 're feeding 20 , chances are you want the smallest bird they have . It does n't really matter if you should have 1 lb per person or 1.5 if you have 8 people and their smallest bird is 12 pounds - and I 'm willing to bet that 's the case . That said , I generally allow 1 lb per person and do n't count the smallest children ( say , have n't started school yet . ) I also tend to send a lot of leftovers home with other people . Our feasts are very veggie heavy , but as I mentioned above you may have less control over this than you think .
end question
start question
What to do with seized / split chocolate ?
If you 're not talking about very much water getting into the bowl , then these techniques should help . Remove the bowl of chocolate from the heat source . For every ounce of chocolate , add one tablespoon of one of these : warm water , melted butter , vegetable oil , hot milk/cream . Stir or whisk until smooth . Add a bit more liquid if needed . Use the repaired chocolate for sauce , frosting , or a batter ( like for your brownies ! ) . It wo n't work well for coating candy . You may also want to check out <URL> on how to melt chocolate without getting it wet .
Double-yolked eggs are the result of an anomaly in the egg generation process in the hen . They can happen in any breed of hen , on any feed . It is a result of two ova being generated at the same time , and then encapsulated in a single shell . According to <URL> , it happens more often with younger hens . I am not aware of any process to intentionally foster double yolked eggs , but that does n't mean such a thing does n't exist . They are safe to eat , although they may be visually startling .
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
If really want to substitute for that coconut oil in this particular application , you want a pure , relatively flavorless , saturated fat . This will be one that is solid at room temperature . That means commercial shortening , such as the US brand Crisco . Update : cocoa butter itself , of course would be ideal , if you can get it . But , then you would want to temper it . In that case , well , see below ... However , in my opinion : Your best bet , if you are willing to do the necessary work , for a crisp true chocolate coating is to use ... pure chocolate . Nothing else . The trick is to ensure that your chocolate is in temper . ( You can read more about it within the <URL> ) . This means that it is melted and then cooled in such as way as to ensure the cocoa butter forms the most desirable crystals , which have a melting point near mouth temperature , and a smooth , crisp bite . You can google many detailed articles on how to temper chocolate , with many variant methods . For example , here is one from <URL> . For small batches at home , I have found the following method to be very successful , using 100 % real chocolate such as Merkens or Ghirardelli ( or many other brands ) . That is , chocolate that is made of nothing but cocoa butter , cocoa solids , sugar , flavoring , and maybe some lecithen . You do n't want other fats . In general , you should avoid chocolate chips ( which may not be true chocolate ) unless you know your manufacturer actually uses 100 % true chocolate in their chips ( a small number do ) . Break the chocolate up into small chunks ( maybe 1/2 inch or 1 cm in size ) Place in a glass microwave safe bowl . The purpose of the glass bowl is to absorb the heat from the chocolate , and then keep it relatively stable and warm . Place the chocolate in the microwave at very low power . I use level 2 on my microwave . It will take a very long time , maybe 8-10 minutes , even to be partially melted . This is okay . Every so often , stir the chocolate so it is heating fairly evenly . ( The glass bowl also helps by adding thermal mass ... ) Keep microwaving on low , until the chocolate is almost all melted , checking more and more frequently as you get close . When the chocolate is about 90 % melted , take it out and let the residual heat from the bowl and the chocolate melt the rest . Do one last stir , so that the various crystal types and seeds are evenly distributed , just in case some small part of the chocolate went out temper in this process . Again , I emphasize , patience and going slow here is the key . This method trades time for complexity . The key to this method is : commercial chocolate is already in temper . By barely melting it ( and I mean barely ) , we keep it temper . We do n't have to do all the hard stuff with thermometers and carefully regulating the temperature up to melt the bad crystals , then down to seed the good ones and so on . Once you have your tempered melted chocolate , you can use it to coat candies , cookies , or ( one of my favorites ) stir in a crunchy breakfast cereal , coconut flakes , or nuts to make little candies ... the applications are endless .
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
Whole peas will take longer to cook than split peas , but they wo n't ruin the soup . Split peas will also break apart more to thicken the soup , while whole peas will remain mostly intact . If you want a similar effect , you could use a stick blender to partially liquefy the soup after it 's cooked .
My first reaction was to think that grapefruit seeds have cyanide , do n't they ? Nope , that 's apples , apricots and peaches . I did find an application you might find interesting : <URL> Self-made pure GSE processed without solvents is prepared by grinding the grapefruit seed and juiceless pulp , then mixing with glycerin . A few sites suggest that it 's not quite that simple , but a <URL> will give you quite a bit of reading material . If you try this , I hope you let us know how it goes !
Almost all fermented dairy products curdle under heat . When this happens , the milk proteins bind to each other into a rubbery mesh , which ca n't contain all the moisture from the original product , and it is squeezed out . Creme fraîche tends to be an exception . It contains a high amount of fat . This fat lubricates the proteins and gets in the way , so they ca n't bind to each other and form the mesh . However , the fat content of creme fraîche is n't all that high ( just enough to allow for the effect I described ) , so it is finicky when heated . As you do n't seem to have acid in the recipe , the trouble probably comes from water . It dilutes the creme fraîche , making it more probable that proteins will meet and bind without a fat droplet coming in the way . So , if you want to keep the recipe as authentic as possible , try to reduce the amount of water exuded by the other ingredients . The first thing to check is whether you are actually using creme fraîche . Sometimes people make a substitution with a similar product , but continue calling it the name of the original product . Sour cream , smetana , creme legere , plant substitutes , etc. wo n't work in your case - 30 % fat is the minimum for baking , the higher the fat content , the better is it suited . For the rest of the answer , I am assuming that you are using the creme fraîche . My suggestion would be to drain the broccoly very well ( I assume you mean blanched or nuked broccoli , baking them in the oven would be strange ) , maybe even try to use a salad dryer . If the salmon comes from a vacuum package , drain it well too , and pat it dry with a paper towel . Take the potatoes out of the boiling pot and leave them alone for a while , the cooling startch will absorb some moisture . Also , use a mealy type of potatoes , the starch in these could absorb some liquid from the other ingredients . Another thing which should help in any case is to reduce the oven temperature , as the gentler heat will affect the creme fraîche less . If this fails , you should consider adding other ingredients to stabilize the creme fraîche . It will change the taste , but not necessarily for the worse . A stabilizer should help . For dairy , carrageenan is very effective and its taste is not noticeable , but most people do n't have it in the kitchen . Starch will also act as stabilizer , take just a small portion , maybe a teaspoonful per 200 g creme fraîche . Dissolve it in a teaspoonful of cold water before adding it . You could also use flour . Both will affect the taste somewhat , the flour will be more pronounced . The second solution would be to raise the fat content . Adding pure fat is counterproductive , as the fat droplets in dairy products are much smaller than what your blender would achieve . But you could mix or substitute the creme fraîche using a dairy product with a higher fat content . Mascarpone , kaymak , katuk , clotted cream , or creme double should work . Or maybe cream cheese , even if it does n't have a higher fat content , because it contains stabilizers . A full substitution will alter the taste substantially , but a partial one will probably be OK . If all else fails , you could try if you ca n't change the recipe to accommodate a more traditional gratin liquid ( how is the stuff called in English ? ) . While I agree that pure creme fraîche will work best with what you listed , a mixture of eggs ( or just yolks to keep it more liquid ) , milk , the creme fraîche , and a tiny bit of flour would also provide a moist binding . Use less eggs/yolks than in a normal gratin to keep it from setting too much . It will be a big change , but if nothing else works , it will still taste much better than curdled creme fraîche . Or if you are a risk-embracing nature , you can continue using pure creme fraîche , just with the moisture reducing techniques , hoping that this will be enough . Each time it separates , you should drain the whole dish , catching the liquid . Scum off the curds , or strain them . The whey will have a nice taste , similar to a stock . Take out some new creme fraîche ( not heated ) , and mix it with the liquid . ( Reduce it first to avoid making it too liquid ) . Add it back to the remaining ingredients . This will keep the taste even if the curdling occurs , but will require lots of work .
Very simple : do n't store your chocolate in the fridge . The ideal temperature for setting chocolate is 20 ° C . You can store it at less or more than that , but not too much . Setting in the fridge results in bad chocolate . Remember , when you work with chocolate , exact temperatures are extremely important . Here a loose translation from a <URL> on chocolate/couverture coating : This is the usual case . You only want a temperature difference of 12 ° to 13 ° between the chocolate and its environment as well as between the chocolate and the confect interior . If the interior is colder than the room , the setting will happen " inside out " . The cocoa butter film which gives a confect its shine will build on the inside , leaving the outside looking dull . This is a really good case for some types of confect , but you ca n't do it with most types of filling ( definitely not with strawberries ) . Cooling from the outside gives you a beautiful shine . If you want to achieve a good shine , it is possible to put the confects in the fridge for a short time , but only after they have cooled to 20 ° C at room temperature . Do n't let them fall to fridge temperature , take them out at 15 ° C . The continued cooling from the outside is beneficial . This should n't happen . The temperature difference is too small , and the confect does n't set quick enough . In this case , cocoa butter pools on the surface and creates a yellowish layer after it hardens . When you make your confect , you should time the first piece . The setting should need 10 minutes . If it is less , you do n't get all the possible shine . If it needs more , it will get grey or whitish yellow .
You can not easily create a powder from real chocolate , which contains a great deal of cocoa butter , making it very difficult to powder . While you can chop it finely , that still may be less than ideal for quickly creating hot chocolate . Instead , based on an idea from <URL> , you can make a thick ganache to use as essentially a hot chocolate concentrate , that can be kept in the refrigerator for a few days , or the freezer for a couple of months : Prepare a gancahe with 12 ounces of chocolate to 1 cup of heavy cream , with 1/4 tsp of salt . Cool it and then scoop it into single serving portions ( about 3 tablespoons ) to store , wrapping each individually . To make the hot chocolate , heat one portion with one cup of milk ( microwaving is especially convenient ) until it is hot . More traditionally , for an instant powder mix , you would combine cocoa powder ( often dutched ) , powdered sugar , and possibly other seasonings -- if you want it to work with a water base , you would also include dried milk powder . Many recipes are easily available on the internet .
You need to 1 ) increase the emulsification , and 2 ) reduce the amount of time the sauce is very hot . You can try adding honey or mustard to the sauce , that will improve emulsification . You can also hit it with a stick blender which will do a much better job of breaking it up than can be done by hand . Also it may look ok after a few hours but who knows how much separation is starting to happen at a very small scale and will accelerate when it hits heat . Add the sauce at the last possible moment before plating . It is n't going to benefit from cooking , and it is n't going to marinade into the cooked food , so do n't have it in any longer than it takes for it to warm up . 20 seconds is probably all it will take .
You are trying to add the yoghurt at too high a temperature . Let the dish cool to around 75 deg C before adding the yoghurt , and make adding the yoghurt the last thing you do before serving .
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
The function of the chord , that is attached to the yolk , is to hold the yolk into place . To have the most uniform baking possible , you remove the chord . However , I never do . I keep it in with the rest of the whites and I 've never had any problems with the finished products . So you can : toss it keep it with the yolk ( a little bit of whites with the yolk is not bad , the other way around is ) keep it with the whites since it does not contain fat , it will not stop the whites from being whipped It 's up to you .
Because onions contain a lot of flavour compounds that we like , and which are synergistic with meats .
Coffee goes well with hazelnut and has a slightly bitter note , so you could make a coffee infused crème pâtissière by simply folding in a shot or two of espresso ( or just some good strong coffee ) into whipped cream ( or make a coffee frosting ) .
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
If it 's fresh Trout with the skin on then yes , rinse the slime off . If it was frozen then you might have another problem ...
For an astringent/bitter twist to the flavour , for a scent , and the visual gloss effect ** Mediterranean people have been doing this for centuries For best effect they are probably using a first cold press oil ( Extra-virgin ) from young olive trees ( less than 50 years old ) . It is often quite green in colour and has a pungent and astringent odour These are often only available from boutique olive farmers , in expensive small quantities e.g. . <URL> or <URL> . Expect prices around NZ$ 50 to NZ$ 100 per litre It is sort of similar in concept to squeezing a fresh lemon over a dish It 's a bit over fashionable at the moment , but in some dishes it really works ** the three s 's - sap ( or ) , scent , shine
You could use them , together with the core , to make apple-glaze ( for your pie ) . Cover everything with water , simmer about 30 min , strain , simmer until you reach the desired density .
end question
start question
Can I make crackling from cured ham skin ?
The short answer is yes , you most definitely can but with a few caveats . First , if the skin has any significant amount of sugar on/in it from a glaze or cure it will burn fairly quickly and likely impart a bitter flavor before you are going to achieve the proper crisp a crackling is known for . Also , with hams , there is likely going to be a ton of salt in the skin to begin with and this is likely going to be intensified when you fry it up so be aware of that . I 've never had good luck baking pork skin for crackling since the texture is never the same and it takes a lot longer . Deep frying is a much better/authentic way to go .
I think you just need to dehydrate them some more to get that effect . I assume granola and muesli tend to use drier raisins because they will keep longer , and not affect the rest of the cereal with extra moisture . The amount of moisture left in raisins can be variable , it depends on how they 're made and for what purpose - the moister ones are more accessible , the drier ones keep longer - that would be why some are softer than others . To dry out your raisins , you might sun-dry them , or use a dehydrator , or even lay them out in a warm oven to chase of the extra moisture . You would have to keep checking to figure out when they reach the consistency you want . You might even try toasting them , for a higher temperature and a quicker time - though I 'm not sure if the higher heat will change the flavors , or if the changes would be any good ... I have not heard of toasted raisins as an ingredient .
If it 's been fully cured ( smoked , then hung for a few months ) , it likely just needs to be warmed through for serving ( or even just sliced ) . If it 's soft , you might need to cook it , and then you could roast it in the oven ... a crock pot might be okay ; it 's hard to say without having seen it . But if it 's quite firm , I 'd likely just slice pieces off like you might other dry cured hams like <URL> , <URL> , jamón or <URL> . If it 's heavily salted , I 'd be more likely to use it as a flavoring than a meat -- cut off bits , and add to vegetable dishes when cooking . It goes great with dark greens or in bean dishes . ( I just had an excellent bean &amp; ham soup last night at a meeting that a few of us treat as a pot-luck )
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
Seems this is very common in Britain , where I come from , so google.co.uk did the business ! The recipe here allows storing in a cool , dark cupboard for up to six months , and it recommends leaving the eggs at least a month : <URL> This one looks good , and I like the instructions for eating ! <URL>
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
I recommend ( and use ) a <URL> . Not only are they fairly tough and sharp , you can adjust the blade to the depth you need ( you do n't want to cut too deep ) . And the blades are cheap to replace ... As others have noted in the comments , be careful with this as you would with any knife : the blades may be small , but they 're quite sharp .
Some years ago I tried a lemonade in southern Peru . It was very tangy and creamy . I asked the waiter how they made it and he replied that they blended a whole lemon with its peel . The juice was then strained . It was g
It is possible to do at home , but it is very labor intensive and requires equipment that most people do n't have at home . The first major step is to <URL> ( ie tapioca flour ) . The cassava must be cleaned and peeled , then finely grated or milled to break the cell walls and expose the starch . This mass is then washed in a large amount of water and the insoluble pulp is strained out and the starchy water reserved . The starch-water mixture , called " Starch milk " , is allowed to settle for 6 + hours and the water is drained off until a thick slurry is left . This slurry is then either purified further with more water then dried to form the flour . The additional washing of the slurry is important to remove residual insoluble fiber and , more importantly , cyanide-related toxins naturally found in the cassava . Traditional cultures dried the slurry on basketwork trays , but it is more efficient to do it in an oven at low temperature with regular raking and turning . The dried starch would then be sifted and used for cooking . <URL> or pearls from tapioca starch is relatively easy compared to the processing of the cassava . The tapioca starch is mixed with boiling water to form a dough which is then kneaded and rolled into the desired size balls . The tapioca balls are then cooked in boiling water until transparent . Other sources : <URL> <URL>
I think you may reach the point of diminishing returns if you try and fix your oven because there 's lots that could be going wrong . It could be that your oven design is just bad , in which case you ca n't fix it anyway . It could be a faulty temperature sensor , or a bad gas valve , or a faulty burner . Your gas supply pressure could be inconsistent . By the time you replace all these you 'll have spent more than a new oven would cost . I 'd first clean it really well . Get all the dust and gunk out and see if that helps . Then you should see if you can find a pro who can have a look at it , test the gas supply , see if there 's any quick wins . One suggestion I 'd make would be to post this on the <URL> forum , the home improvement site . As this is more a question about mechanics and repair you 're likely to get a better answer there .
I would suggest making a Mornay sauce ( <URL> ) which you should find will hold together well and provide an unctuous , rich , spreadable texture . Simply melt butter in a saucepan over a medium-low heat , whisk in an equal quantity of flour , cook it out a little , then add cold milk , whisking all the while , until you get a smooth sauce like consistency . Then dump in a load of grated parmesan , stir it through , decant to a bowl and cool .
You do n't have to use water as the liquid in your bread . Enriched breads use milk and/or eggs . We have recently had questions about breads which use orange juice . On the technical side , you have to adjust recipe a little . Pickle juice does n't have much dissolved solids , so no need to adjust for that . However , it is very salty , so you should reduce or completely leave out the salt . The acidity will help with gluten development and also with breaking down the starches in flour to make them available for chemical reactions which produce more flavour , so this is a good thing to have . However , yeast itself has some strong pH preferences . It grows best in a slightly acidic environment , but if the dough gets too basic or too sour , it will slow down or not grow at all . I think that the diluted vinegar in the pickle water wo n't oversour the dough , but it would be a good idea to make the poolish with pure water and only add pickle water for the dough itself . As for taste , I ca n't say that much without ever having tried it , but my intuition says that you will get a whiff of pickles , but not a full-blown taste . After all , bread made with orange juice does n't taste like biting into an orange . I think you will notice the difference , but you will still have to add pickles to your sandwiches for taste ( and they are needed for the crunch anyway ) . As for horrible , it depends entirely on personal taste . I am not a fan of pickles or soured breads , and would n't eat it . There are people who drink the pickle water from the jar ; I think they will enjoy the pickle-smelling bread too . If you are a pickle fan , I think it is worth a try , if it does n't work , you only throw out under a dollar 's worth of ingredients .
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
The skin is the outer thick orange-coloured cover ; obviously as you 're not told to remove it this would include the pith ( the white fibrous material ) as well . The pips are the seeds inside the fruit : pip noun plural noun : pips 1 . a small hard seed in a fruit . synonyms : seed , stone , pit
I use a potato peeler to peel it . I cut off the top then peel down in strips . with a good peeler you can save most of the flesh this way . I use a <URL> .
According to <URL> , yes , you can make your own matzo meal by the obvious method of putting some crumbled matzo sheets into the food processor . She notes that you will get about 1/2 cup from two sheets . Farfel can be made simply by breaking the matzo into appropriately sized pieces . <URL> explains that it is easiest to do it by hand to get the uniform size . <URL> even says that is all farfel is : broken up matzo .
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
end question
start question
Good websites/cookbooks covering more tailored approach to cooking vegetables ?
Nigel Slater 's book <URL> might be useful to you . He devotes each chapter to a separate vegetable , and for each one he includes : Specific recipes Discussion of different varieties Comments on different cooking techniques Comments on effective seasonings and pairings There 's also some discussion of his attempts ( successful or not ) at growing different vegetables in his own garden .
Its less that the simple act of cooking it at home causes shorter life of the product and more that at-home cooks are cooking for the sake of avoiding the chemicals and preservatives that are what give the commercially made things their long shelf life . In some cases it is preservatives ( sulfates in dried fruit ( I think ) ) , in some cases it is an extra processing step ( ultra-high-temp-pasteurization for organic milk ) , while in other cases it is a matter of equipment that is simply not available for the home cook ( for example canned pureed pumpkin - this is not safe to make at home ( even with a proper pressure canner ) but with the commercial equipment and processes it becomes shelf stable ) . Usually I think it is a combination of all three of these . That being said , in regards to ice cream - I recently read somewhere that if you put the container with the ice cream in it into a Ziplock baggie then it helps it stay soft for longer . I still have some ice cream ( technically sorbet ) in my freezer from over a year ago that I keep forgetting about . When I decide to chip some off the solid block it has become ( I did not store it in a Ziplock baggie , just a container ) it is still quite good .
The biggest issue 's your facing is the lack of Gluten which helps trap the air created by the baking powder ( Fluffy ) and the lack of fat ( Moisture ) . I also sure the sugar would be adding a little extra strength . However the Picture on the original recipe looks dense and dry anyway . I 'm assuming you 're not using butter purposely , for much the same reason you 're using honey instead of sugar . Taking these two as a basis and working on the recipe you have provided . I think the following may work for you : <URL> Mix the warm Milk , Syrup , Milk , Oil and Yeast and leave to ferment for a while ( 15-25min ) Mix the dry ingredients , sieving to trap some extra air . Beat the eggs until fluffy and pale ( This would be easier with a couple of teaspoons of sugar if your willing to add a tiny amount ? ) Mix beaten egg to yeast mix , then add to dry mix , mixing well preferably with a dough hook if you have one . It 's going to be hard to do by hand as it 'll be sticky as hell . Add to baking dish ( es ) and leave to prove for an hour . Then beat it back down and leave a further 40min . Bake as described in the original recipe . May need a little longer . We 're aiming for more of a brioche type dough rather than a soft batter or firm bread dough here so more flour may be needed . The above recipe should work well . The only issue may be trapping the air , if this is the case adding 2tsp of Xanthan gum to the dry ingredients will make it work much better . The texture will be much lighter ( Fluffy ) , the additional Oil and Egg should increase the moisture side of things . Hope this works well for you :) , I see no reason it should n't .
To boil vegetables , you add the vegetables to a pot of water , and boil the water for a short duration until the vegetables are sufficiently cooked . One may add salt or other flavorings ( such as broth , as you mentioned ) to the water prior to boiling . Steamed vegetables are cooked in a steamer basket , where the vegetables are not in the water , but are instead sitting above the water , and are thus cooked by steam . Salt must be added to steamed vegetables after they are cooked rather than to the water prior to cooking , since salt does not evaporate . Steamed vegetables can retain more of their original flavor and nutrients , since they do not leech out into the water during boiling . On the other hand , you can not add additional flavors to your vegetables during steaming -- since flavors can not soak into the vegetables from the water , either . Which taste/texture you prefer , of course , can be a matter of personal opinion . In my experience , boiled vegetables are often mistakenly referred to as steamed vegetables . And often , many restaurants will sell " steamed vegetables " which are really just microwaved frozen vegetables , which may strictly be steamed ( it certainly is n't boiled ! ) , but really bears little resemblance to the true steaming process ( and has relatively poor flavor , as well ) .
I always reserve a bit of pasta water to add it to the pan . The reason is simple : if you drain your pasta and add it to the sauce the pasta will suck up all the sauce and become a bit dry . Adding the pasta water ensures that your pasta will remain moist . Also yes , it helps thickening the sauce ( this does not necessarily apply to tomato sauce ) . Now , let 's be clear : you DO NOT add your pasta water to the sauce when you are preparing the sauce . You only add it when you put your pasta in the sauce . It also helps if you do n't drain the pasta , just take it out of the boiling water ( using tongs , ofc ) and put it in your sauce while still on the stove . A quick 30-50 secs stir and that 's it . Hope this helps . PS : 1/2 cup seems like a lot to me . For two portions of pasta I usually add around 3 tablespoons .
Typically , vegetables will lose their colour if they are over-cooked , so it 's probably worthwhile cooking them for a shorter period of time . Usually steaming is a great way to preserve the nutrients and colour of vegetables , as is stir-frying rapidly . Different kinds of vegetables contain various pigments in their skins . Green vegetables contain chlorophyll ; red and white vegetables contain flavonoids ; orange vegetables contain keratin . Each of these pigments requires a different approach when cooking to preserve colour . When cooking green vegetables , never add an acid , such as lemon juice or vinegar , as this will cause the vegetables to discolour quickly . Always cook green vegetables rapidly and preferably without a lid . With red and white vegetables , which contain flavonoids , the converse to green vegetables is true . Adding an acid during the cooking process will retain and even restore the colour . For red vegetables use a red or white wind vinegar . For white vegetables use a slice of lemon . Orange vegetables , which contain keratin and are generally fairly robust , for the most part can be cooked with or without the addition of an acid , and they will usually retain their colour . Another way to preserve the colour is to blanch the vegetable in boiling water for a minute or so , then plunge them into ice water . Doing this stops the cooking process instantly . Using the method is useful if you intend to freeze vegetables .
When I fancy fish and chips I tend to use either cod or haddock and create a rich beer batter . Serve that with some home-made chips and you 're set . If I want something lighter , but still with a crust , I 'd tend to go for mackerel . If that 's not available , I 'd be looking for seabass or snapper .
Depending on exactly the recipe you are using it in , I 'd either go for a meaty white fish such as Cod , haddock , or the cheaper fish like pollock . You may also be able to get away with something like mackerel , which is n't as white and chunky but is much cheaper . You should be able to get all of these in a UK supermarket . You could also try a fishmonger ( either in the Supermarket or independent ) - ask them what you could use instead .
I ca n't give you a list with good substitutes for common dishes . First , I doubt that my common dishes are your common dishes . Second , it would be too long . If you want to substitute alcohol in a dish , you have to understand what it does in the specific recipe , and then use your imagination to think of an ingredient which will have a similar effect . Alcohol has mostly three effects in a dish . First , it is a liquid , and its bulk must be considered . In recipes where the ratio is important ( mainly batters ) , if you leave out the alcohol , you have to add some other liquid to maintain the original ratio . Second , alcohol adds its own taste . A small part of it is the taste of the ethanol itself , but cooks mostly use beverages with a strong taste of their own as a component of the dish . Third , alcohol is a solvent . It can get more taste out of your other ingredients than pure water . ( Ever wondered why vanilla extract is alcohol based ? ) This is especially important in recipes which give it a longer time to interact with the other ingredients , such as the slow boiling of a coq au vin . Depending on which of these effects are important to you , you have different options to act . Just leave it out . If you are n't baking , you probably are n't that interested in the ratio . And if you expect the result to taste well enough without the alcohol , the simplest solution is to skip it . Use a liquid substitute . This is especially important in baking and confectionery , but you can decide to do it in any case . Depending on the original kind of alcohol and taste you are aiming for , you can use pure water , a liquid trying to stay close to the original taste , or a liquid which gives a completely new taste profile to the whole recipe . For example , in a sweet dish like your foster dessert you can use caramel dissolved in apple juice instead of dark rum if you want to mimic the original , or cherry juice to create a cherry-banana dessert . Common liquids to use are sugared water ( when the original recipe had a sweet liquor ) , a fruit or vegetable juice , a herbal infusion , clear stock , or pickle liquid . Do n't be afraid to use more than one liquid to get closer to the effect you want . If the recipe already uses some other liquid , you can just use more of it . Use a spice or condiment . This is when your main concern is the taste , and you do n't care about the missing liquid . Again , you could be trying to mime the original closely ( using orange zest instead of Grand Marnier ) , or just using any strong spice so the dish does n't become bland . It is up to you . A special case is to use only a taste " essence " : for some beverages common in baking , you can buy a propylene-glycol based condiment which approximates their aroma . Rum essence is widely available , but I 'm quite sure that the whiskey flavored ice cream in the supermarket is n't full of real whiskey . Leave the alcohol in the recipe ( possibly reduced ) . Obviously impossible in some circumstances , like a wine sauce , but quite feasible in others . You do n't have to drown the dessert in rum and flambe it . If you use 20 ml of rum per 1000 g of other ingredients , a child who eats a normal serving ( 150 g ) will consume somewhat less than 1.2 g of ethanol if no alcohol at all is cooked out - and in practice , if the recipe calls for cooking , maybe half of the alcohol will evaporate , and a very young child will probably not eat the whole serving . I do n't think that such miniscule amounts are problematic for children . Of course , you are free to combine these solutions in any way you see fit , depending on which effect ( s ) of alcohol you are trying to imitate . For example , if a baking recipe calls for 50 ml of calvados , use 15 ml of calvados , 35 ml of apple juice , and a breath of powdered cinnamon . Or baste a roast with a mix of tomato and carrot juice instead of red wine . The possibilities are endless , you just have to be clear on why you are choosing whatever you are choosing .
Trim your carrots , rutabaga , turnips , etc. to consistent sizes and put in a large saute pan . Add stock or water ( amount will depend on vegetables and their density along with quantitye of vegetables . Start with enough to come about 2/3 up the volume of veg . ) along with some salt , a couple tablespoons of butter and a couple tablespoons of sugar . Bring the liquid to a simmer and cover lightly with a lid or a circle of parchment paper . Simmer until vegetables are getting tender . Remove the lid and continue to simmer until liquid evaporates and sugar and butter create a nice glaze . Watch at the end to make sure the sugar does n't burn . Add any desired herbs , taste and adjust seasoning and serve .
I do n't know if there 's an ' official ' way of doing this , but I 've heard a few different techniques ( eg , putting the crock together the night before , then fridging it ) . Personally , if I 'm going to prep things in advance , I try to take advantage of the extra time , such as by giving the meat a dry-rub . In theory you can mix the meat and vegetables ( as they 'll all be cooked to sufficient temperatures to make the meat safe ; the problems are when you cook the vegetables for less time ) ... but I find that makes it difficult to specifically layer the crock the way that I want to . ( I typically put a carrots across the bottom to lift the meat a little off the bottom of the crock ) . When it comes time to put everything into the crock , I start it on high for a little while so it 'll come up to temperature in a reasonable time , and then switch it over to warm before leaving it to work . ( it 's possible that the new programmable crockpots do this automatically with ' fuzzy logic ' ... I 've never tested it specifically ) . ... So , to summarize : prep food the night before store in containers relative to how you 'll want to layer things in the crock . ( if not layering , all together is fine ) . do n't use the crock as one of the containers in the fridge . on the morning of , layer things into the crock about 30 min before you need to leave . add the appropriate amount of liquid . place the lid on . turn the crock on high . once the temperature is up to around 130-140 ° F ( 57-60 ° C ) , switch it over low . leave it for the appropriate amount of time . switch it to warm if you need extra time before it 'll be served . If you overslep or otherwise need to get out the door quickly ... put the liquid in the microwave to heat up ( or stovetop ) while you assemble the stuff in the crock , and assemble it while the crock is on low . ( you wo n't burn yourself right away , as it takes a few minutes to warm up ) . Once the liquid is warm ( you do n't want it at a boil ... we 're looking for near our target 130-140 ° F / 57-60 ° C ; a couple of degrees over if you have the time ) , pour it in slowly , working your way around the outer edge of the crock . Drop on the lid , and then go to step # 9 .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
Cincinnati Chili often has cardamom , along with cinnamon and cocoa . Cardamom is used in savory and sweet foods all over the world , not just in India . If you have reason to want to try this particular recipe , then try the recipe as written . There are thousands of beloved recipes for all kinds of chili . There is no reason to say , " That one looks good , I 'll do it just like that but omit a certain ingredient 'cause it makes me nervous . " Your friend 's advice is a bit odd to me because Garam Masala usually contains cardamom ( sometimes black , green and brown ) My advice is to either try the recipe as written , or find another with which you 're more comfortable . Or come up with your own . There are no hard and fast rules when it comes to chili . BTW , I love cardamom in savory . I make a Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup ( Pho ) that I crave if I have n't had it for a while . It would n't be right without cardamom .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
The cut is important for both techniques . For sauteing , you need a lean cut - fillet , sirloin , or good rump steak . These should be cooked quickly over a high heat . As Cerberus has suggested , if you are cooking something else in the same pan , take the beef out and re-add it later ; do n't boil it in a sauce . Stewing beef needs some fat and cartilage which breaks down during slow cooking and tenderises the meat . Packs of such beef are usually sold as such in the supermarket ; look for a pack with plenty of fat marbled through the meat ; ' Lean stewing steak ' is as useful as a waterproof teabag ! My personal favourite stewing beef is brisket , as it breaks down into nice tender fibres after 2-3 hours cooking . Contrary to popular belief , browning meat does nothing to ' seal in the juices ' . It simply provides a bit of extra colour and flavour by ' caramelising ' the outside a little . So if you have a strong flavoured stew ( like a chilli , for example ) , just throw the chunks of meat straight into the sauce .
Basically anything that 's liquid . Fruit is very common , but we 've also done herbs ( mint and sage specifically ) . I 've also had vegetable spheres like pureed peas and beets as separate spheres . At restaurants , I 've had beer sphere 's served with pretzel ( at Cyrus ) and I 've seen cointreau spheres used in a drink . They pop like caviar , and that 's what releases the flavor , so they either need to be quite large or have a strong flavor . Otherwise the taste is lost and you 're left with just the ( fun ) " texture " . It also often helps to use some food coloring if your liquid is n't a strong color . With small spheres , light colors will disappear and you 're left with relatively transparent spheres . I 'd also recomend trying reverse spherification ( i.e. mix calcium chloride with your liquid and then drop in to an alginate bath ) , as this does n't use your flavored liquid to make the shell , leaving you with more " pop " . So look for a strong flavor and a nice pairing . Make it easy to get the spheres in to your mouth . It 's easier if the spheres are on another piece of food , as cutlery will often break the spheres . The best thing about spheres is presentation and the caviar pop , so use that experience and look to your advantage and feature it in whatever you 're serving . Here 's my <URL> revolving around spherification .
Cheaper spirits can certainly be used in culinary applications . The results wo n't be identical , but inexpensive liquors are a lot more cost-effective since the subtle differences in flavor between middling and quality spirits tend to get masked by other flavors . This is especially true when you 're applying heat , which will burn off much of the alcohol ( though not all ) and change some of the volatile flavor compounds in the spirit . For things like a tomato sauce made with wine , a pan sauce deglazed with brandy , or a dessert flambeed with rum , the difference between bottom-shelf and high-end product will be evident only in the cost . Poor-quality vodka will have some " rough " flavors if you 're drinking it straight , and those might carry over into the liqueur in particular . Chilling will help , so you probably wo n't notice much difference in your borscht , and once you bake the liqueur into something I doubt any flavor difference will be noticeable in the final product . As a rule of thumb , the more you manipulate the spirit , the less you 'll notice its provenance . I can say confidently that using free , leftover plonk in a culinary application will be a much better use than drinking it !
Short answer : I 've only heard good things about the CCK # 1 small slicer , and would suggest that . If you 're new to the style of knife , pick up a cheap carbon-steel Dexter Russell one for like $ 20-25 at your local Chinatown . Long answer : Chinese slicer knives ( more commonly called Chinese cleavers ) are multipurpose knives , so they fill the same niche as French-style chef knives . They 're common options for cheap restaurant knives , and I 've seen them used professionally . I now use a Dexter Chinese Cleaver as my primary knife at home . The common features of Chinese cleavers are a squared-off , deep , often carbon steel blade , bamboo barrel-style handle , and pure awesomeness . Generally the blades are around 200mm long x 75-90mm deep , or about 8 " x 3 " . As you note , the blades are not as heavy or thick as German-style cleavers , so they ca n't handle bone . Although they get mentioned a lot for vegetable chopping , Chinese cleavers are remarkably flexible for both meat and vegetables . You can find videos of Chef Martin Yan <URL> with a Chinese cleaver . The deep blade makes chopping thick objects simple , where the squared corner is remarkable for fine detail work . The spine of the knife can be used to tenderize meat or scrape cutting boards . The broad blade is perfect for transferring cut product to a pan . You can even use the handle for crushing spices ! The carbon steel blades can be love or hate for many people . Personally , I love how mine takes and holds an edge comparable to the most expensive stainless steels . The fly in the ointment is that they can rust right before your eyes if you cut lemons or acidic tomatoes . They should always be cleaned and dried PROMPTLY after use , to avoid rust . Between use , I oil mine lightly with vegetable oil , as an extra precaution . Between this and the water-intolerance of the bamboo handle , they do need some special care . Although stainless-steel cleavers are becoming more common , I really think it defeats the point if you use one . They 're supposed to be cheap and ugly , but workhorses . A good Chinese cleaver should n't set you back more than $ 50 in your local Chinatown or online ... mine was about $ 25 and it does dang fine , though I will probably upgrade to a CCK # 1 eventually .
Yes , this works , as long as you do n't boil them too long . The idea is that by the time they get roasted properly ( e.g. your potatoes are browned on the outside ) the inside is only just cooked , not overcooked . I 'd aim for very roughly half cooked , starting to be pokeable with a fork but not actually tender . For flavorful things like beets , you may lose some flavor into the water , but they should still be quite good . If you want to avoid this , though , you can just steam them instead , or even microwave . It 's not really much more trouble than boiling ! If you do this , and get the timing right , it wo n't really affect the taste or texture much at all compared to just roasting .
To my experience , the cutting " trajectory " ( not sure if that 's the right vocab ) of a dull knife is less consistent and less controllable than a sharpened one , and is more subject to be influenced by the texture of the material being cut , especially cutting something hard , thick and fiber-ish such as carrot or big melon .
end question
start question
What are the options for thawing a frozen turkey ?
Let 's start with the assumption that Safety is never in the balance . Safety has to be taken into account for any method that we use and that means that we want to keep any food that is time and temperature sensitive out of the danger zone . The danger zone is the temperature range from 40 degrees F to 140 degrees F . If you have plenty of time , letting the turkey defrost in the refrigerator is safest and easiest , since there is little that you have to do . The turkey is always out of the danger zone and all you have to do is put it in the refrigerator . However , it can take a very long time , 24 hours for each 5 pounds of turkey weight ... 4 days for a 20 pound turkey . Assuming you have n't planned that far ahead , the other safe method is to defrost in the sink with cold running water . The water does n't need to be pouring out , just a steady stream so the water turns over regularly . Water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the turkey will defrost more rapidly than in the refrigerator . The danger zone is why you do n't want to defrost the turkey using warm water , or just sitting on the counter . In either of those cases , the outside meat is warmed into the danger zone before the inside defrosts , so you have some of the meat ( the part that is most likely to have come into contact with contaminants ) in a temperature range that promotes bacterial growth .
The veggies are n't very palatable after such a long simmering ( unless you like celery paste , I guess ) , but if you 've thrown a whole chicken in the resulting meat is wonderfully tender and flavorful .
I 'd be more concerned about the meat 's safety than taste/texture . " Warm " thawing creates the perfect environment for bacteria growth . That having been said , my experience mainly involves the use of a microwave to thaw meat . When microwaving meat to thaw , try to avoid the meat having corners or protrusions . This adversely affects taste/texture because they usually start to cook before the rest of the meat thaws . Freeze ground meat , in a circular shape with a hole in the middle for quickest microwave thawing time . When thawing meat ' parts ' place them in a circle , thickest side outward . So long as no noticeable cooking has started , the taste/texture should be fine . Cook immediately .
Yes , just put them in a freezer bag and squeeze out plenty of air from it before you tie it up . It does n't matter if they 're shelled/crushed etc. . You can keep them for as long as anything else - some say 6 months , some say a year , some say indefinitely .
Let 's start with the assumption that Safety is never in the balance . Safety has to be taken into account for any method that we use and that means that we want to keep any food that is time and temperature sensitive out of the danger zone . The danger zone is the temperature range from 40 degrees F to 140 degrees F . If you have plenty of time , letting the turkey defrost in the refrigerator is safest and easiest , since there is little that you have to do . The turkey is always out of the danger zone and all you have to do is put it in the refrigerator . However , it can take a very long time , 24 hours for each 5 pounds of turkey weight ... 4 days for a 20 pound turkey . Assuming you have n't planned that far ahead , the other safe method is to defrost in the sink with cold running water . The water does n't need to be pouring out , just a steady stream so the water turns over regularly . Water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the turkey will defrost more rapidly than in the refrigerator . The danger zone is why you do n't want to defrost the turkey using warm water , or just sitting on the counter . In either of those cases , the outside meat is warmed into the danger zone before the inside defrosts , so you have some of the meat ( the part that is most likely to have come into contact with contaminants ) in a temperature range that promotes bacterial growth .
Short answer , if you trust the brining job of the manufacturer , you wo n't gain much by rebrining . In brining you 're looking to get a certain amount of moisture " trapped " by the salt in the turkey , which they have , in essence , done for you already with the brining solution . However , that brining solution is usually injected rather than soaked in , so I wonder about the dispersion . Add to that that I actually throw a little sugar into my brining solution ( not a lot ) and some pickling spice and you can see why you 'd want to brine it , but without getting it too salty . The answer is to go with a longer soak ( 12 hour or overnight ) versus a 4 hour brine , with the lower salt content that you 'd use for a long soak . That will balance out the salt levels as the solution 's osmotic pressure equalizes . I use 1/2 Cup of table salt per gallon of water . You can leave a turkey in that solution for ... a long , long time and it wo n't be too salty . It 's all about equalizing the salt/liquid level inside the turkey . If you are REALLY concerned about it and have the time , you could soak your turkey in plain water overnight , which would pull out some/most of the brining solution , then brine normally the next day , to put your salt and spices back in . However , I would be concerned about losing some flavor from the turkey that way .
To some extent , this is a question to which the answers are necessarily quite subjective . However , as a general guideline , I would suggest that you look at the bread as just another ingredient in the dish -- not as somehow distinct from the filling choices . Like any other ingredient pairing , you can evaluate the characteristics and choose things to complement each other . So if you pick your bread first , evaluate if it 's rich or mild , savoury or sweet , dense or light , crusty or soft , thin or thick , etc , and then choose fillings to complement those properties . For your fillings , there 's not only the flavour pairing of the filling and the bread to consider , but also the texture/properties of the filling . A dry filling might not be as pleasant on a dense bread because the texture would be too much the same . Similarly , a saucy filling needs an appropriate bread selection to contain it and make it easy to eat . Many pairings that are considered standard will just taste " good " to us because of tradition and familiarity , but originally , someone probably put them together for a reason . That does n't mean it 's not worth trying something different , though . With the globalization of cuisine , we have many more filling/bread choices available and you might find a new favourite by pairing a bread from one culture with a filling from another , based on their complementary qualities .
Both the Santoku and French knives will work for the same types of things , so a lot of it comes down to preference . Santoku knives are lighter , so this can lead to less hand strain and quicker cutting . One thing that the Santoku are very good at is very thin slicing of vegetables , for two reasons : first , as you point out , you do not use a rocking motion , but rather chop down in one motion , which with practice can be quicker and more efficient . Second , Santoku knives usually have a much thinner blade angle ( around 15 degrees vs 30-40 degrees on a French knife ) . This is because one side of a Santoku is flat , and the other side is beveled ( like a chisel ) , so you only sharpen one side . To accommodate this thin blade the Santoku knives will be made with a harder steel , which helps maintain blade sharpness , but may increase the propensity for chipping if misused , and also makes them harder to sharpen . Still , personal preference dictates which knife to use . Many people prefer the Gyuto style of knife , which ( roughly speaking ) combines features of both Santoku knifes and French knives . They are made of a hardened steel , are sharpened on both sides , but maintain edges around 22-26 degrees . The Gyutos , like the Santokus are fairly light . Gyutos also have a rounded belly but it is less pronounced than on a French knife . There is much more to be said , but basically the thing to do is get your hands on some knives and start experimenting -- see what you like !
If you pinch off the basil flowers as they start to grow , the plant will produce more leaves . ( Yes , this is a horticultural answer , but it will help you make more yummy dishes with the leaves . )
Butter , like most fats , is actually quite resilient to microbes . The problem you are more likely to experience is rancidity . Fat goes rancid by oxidation . Exposure to light , heat , and air cause oxidation and accelerate the process of butter going rancid . Putting butter in your refrigerator addresses the heat and light , but does nothing for the air . The paper that butter sticks are wrapped in are quite porous . You can see evidence of this as a rind that develops on your butter after a couple of weeks . Butter can also absorb odors in your refrigerator through this wrapper . A butter crock , as shown in the <URL> actually serves to protect the butter from air , light , and heat . Butter does not need to be kept below 40 F to stay fresh . The <URL> referenced there will keep butter fresh up to temperatures of 80 F , and likely higher , but the butter will be too soft and slip out at higher temperatures . A plastic or ceramic butter dish are similar in function to the paper that wraps butter . Ceramic is unlikely to seal at all , so the butter will still be exposed to air . Plastic , while capable of a great seal , will still trap oxygen in the container with the butter , allowing oxidation to occur . A butter crock really does seem to be the best of all worlds . You get easy access to soft butter , with little risk . Mold will eventually grow on the butter , but this should take weeks at room temperature . If you do n't use a stick of butter within two weeks , <URL> . :-D
I suspect it depends what kind of cheese the whey came from . Whey has all of the water soluble components of the milk . It loses the casein and fat . How much of the albumin and lactose it loses depends on the cheese . If the milk was heated enough ( 190F I believe ) then the albumin will denature and not be in the whey . If the cheese was acidified with a bacterial inoculation then the bacteria will have converted some of the lactose into lactic acid which will both be in the whey . Riboflavin is water soluble and is what gives the whey that greenish tint . Either way - most of the nutrients that bacteria like are not in the whey and it is always highly acidic . I have personally kept whey for a couple weeks with no ill effect . I usually use my whey soon by making ricotta . If the cheese it came from did n't denature the albumin in the milk then you can gently heat the whey until the the albumin precipitates out . A gallon of whole milk makes almost a pound of mozzarella and then a little less than a cup of ricotta . That 's a lasagna right there .
At a bare minimum , you 'll want at least one " flavoured " and one " unflavoured " oil . Olive oil is definitely the most common choice for a flavoured oil , and sunflower/peanut/canola oil all have pretty neutral flavours ( not to mention similar smoke points ) . Note that for good flavour you 'll want extra virgin olive oil , which also makes it unsuitable for frying/saut éing at high temperatures . So I would say that you already have the minimum requirement . That said , even the " unflavoured " oils have subtly different flavour characteristics due to their different fat contents , and you 'll want to take this into consideration if you like to cook in ethnic cuisines . A short list ( and keep in mind that this is partially subjective ) : Peanut oil : Asian cuisine , Mexican cuisine ( high-temperature frying ) Sesame oil : Asian cuisine ( stir-fry or deep-fry [ refined only ] ) Olive oil : Italian cuisine , French cuisine ( low-temp ) Sunflower or Canola oil : American cuisine , esp . deep-frying Grape seed oil : Decent substitute for any of the other oils Walnut/almond oil : Great for fried desserts ( watch the smoke point though ) .
Perhaps you can use one these ? <URL> Buying one these might be little over the top : <URL> <URL>
Naan traditionally is plain flat bread made using <URL> , Yeast , salt and water . Its cooked in tandoor . Salt could be optional if you are having naan with a curry . ( Cause curry usually has salt and the bread might not need it ) . Variations like milk or yogurt is used instead of water to make dough soft and fluffy . This would change the texture and flavor of the bread . It is possible to use baking powder instead of yeast , because they both act as a leavening agent . Do n't use them together . IMHO eggs are not part of the traditional naan ingredients .
It depends on the meat and how it 's cut . A ' solid ' uncut piece like a pork loin will take longer to marinade properly than if it was cut into thin strips for stir frying , for example - I 'd want to marinade the former at least 7-8 hours , while the latter could probably get away with 1 .
Splenda , besides giving you the runs , is very hard to bake with . My wife had gestational diabetes so we tried baking with splenda and nothing turned out right . Splenda has no nutritional value . Raw sugar is great , but it has a slightly different taste than processed sugar , similiar to brown sugar . Artificial sweetners would probalby have similar issues to splenda , but I 've never tried them outside of sweetening tea .
I suggest starting with this <URL> for more information on brining . Much of what would be transferred into your turkey is liquid from the osmosis , but some salt , and sugar if you choose to use it , would be added as well . If you purchase an " enhanced " turkey that has already been injected , you do n't want to brine it . The injection has a similar effect . If you 've made an enhanced turkey in the past , you 've already eaten a bird with added sodium . <URL> states that the turkey will gain 10 % of its weight in a combination of water and sodium . Your brine comes out to about 3.9 % salt , so your 12 lb turkey will gain ( ( 12 lbs * .1 ) * .039 ) = .0486 lbs = 21 grams of salt from a 3.9 % brine . Your average soda has 55 milligrams of salt per serving . The total amount of salt from your brine will be spread over the entire turkey , so divide that amount by the number of servings you expect that turkey to provide to get the number of additional milligrams of sodium per serving of turkey from brining . If at the end of the day you do n't want to brine , in that same article McGee also suggests a way to keep turkey moist without a brine . EDIT : I did my math wrong above , and have corrected the formula and results .
Yes , it is called a toque . I do n't have a copy of CIA Pro Chef handy at the moment , but it was in the first chapter IIRC . Wikipedia and a casual googling will confirm this .
I have made Asian coleslaws multiple times , and they work very well . My main suggestion would be to heat the dressing before adding it to the slaw . Particularly if you 're using scallions , the heated dressing wilts it just enough to cut some of the sharpness of the raw veggies . I 'd probably make my own dressing from rice vinegar , neutral oil ( such as canola ) and a touch of sesame oil . Add in spices such as garlic , ginger , etc. . You can also vary recipes such as <URL> . You could also try using unexpected ingredients . I make a salad from cubed jicama , apple , and ripe avocado , topped with lemon juice , olive oil , and a touch of chili powder or cayenne . You get the crisp sweetness and some creaminess from the avocado . If they 're not fans of cucumbers , how do they feel about pickles ? Those could also be a nice addition to a coleslaw . Or you could try marinated mushrooms . Either of those would add a vinegary sharpness that would cut nicely through the creaminess of the rice and the satay . This also brings to mind a preparation I 've seen for vegetables in a prepared salad . Blanch your veggies and shock them in an ice bath . Then give them a vinegary dressing and lay them on the plate in attractive ways . This could include green beans , carrots , beets , broccoli , cauliflower , asparagus , potatoes , etc. . You could achieve similar effects by serving roasted vegetables . ( Either from the grill or oven-roasted . ) These are quite good cold or warm .
A few things are n't quite right here . 1 - a cooler full of water for 3 days . A turkey will take 3-4 days to thaw in the fridge - between 35-40F . Quicker methods call for submerging in running water for some hours . Submerging the turkey in stagnant water - even if it started as ice water - will allow the turkey to rise well above 40F over the course of 3 days . You would have to add ice or have the turkey somewhere colder than 40F for this to be safe . 2 - brining too long turning a turkey to mush . The salt in a brine denatures some proteins and supercharges the bird with water . These will make the meat more tender and seem more tender respectively . That said - the risk is n't that the meat will get mushy . Unless you are adding some other ingredient to the brine that is actually a proteinase like papain the risk is not mushiness but being too salty . 3 - 1-2 days of brining . I have never seen a recipe that called for brining this long . The brine recipes I have seen are on the order of 4-10 hours . If your brine recipe calls for this length of time then it is probably more dilute than the ones I use . In such a case it would probably be fine to thaw it in the brine if you address the safety concern . The turkey being frozen will prevent the brine from penetrating but as the bird thaws from the outside in the outside of the bird will have more alone time with the brine than the deeper meat . I ca n't say whether this would be a problem - especially as Harold McGee says that the salt from brining is n't able to penetrate very far into the meat anyway . Unless it is cold enough outside ( or you have enough fridge space ) that you could brine the turkey at < 40F for 2 days while it thawed I would recommend at least mostly thawing it before introducing it to your brine .
end question
start question
Can I substitute low fat greek yogurt for light sour cream in a high speed blender ?
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
You might try ground fennel seed , or even anise , but they will not have quite the same quality . You would certainly have to increase the quantity . In situations like this , I have to point out : it does not make sense to make a dish where you are forced to substitute for the ingredient which gives the dish its identity . Instead , make something where you can employ the star ingredient .
<URL> has about 80 % fat , 15 % water and 5 % solids . Depending on where you are located <URL> has 48 % fat ( UK ) , 40 % ( Canada ) and the remaining fraction is obviously water and little solids . Supposed , you need 100g butter in your receipe . This means that the dough will have 80g fat and 15g water ( for a simple calculation I omit the content of the milk solids ) . If you want to substitute butter with double cream , you will need about 165g double cream to have the same fat content in the dough as if you used butter . The problem is the water that you will have in the dough : You will have 83g water in the dough which is 5,5 times more . Since there is very likely little water in a biscuit receipe and it is not possible to adjust the amount of other liquids ( because there are no other liquids ) I doubt that this substitution will work with a biscuit receipe . With a cake receipe you might have more luck ( e.g. leave 83g - 15g = 68g milk out ) . Making a simple buttercream ( as known as American buttercream ) with double cream is not possible because it has almost no liquid . You could try other fillings like <URL> . I am certain that there are plenty <URL> for cake fillings with double cream .
I would try Lime Basil or a mixture of 1/2 vinegar , and 1/2 bottled lime juice ( small portion ) .
English toffee is very chewy - the kind of stuff that glues your teeth together ! Once it has been cooked and set , it 's not easy to handle and would n't be easy to chop up for a cookie recipe . You 'd possibly be better off with some kind of fudge which is easier to handle but will still hold its shape in a cookie .
Sugar is not critical to the pickling process - it exists primarily as a flavorant . <URL> preservation requires one of two methods - either immersion in vinegar of a sufficiently low pH to kill off unwanted bacteria , or through natural fermentation with probiotic strains of bacteria . Honey is known to have <URL> properties . When using natural fermentation , one might think that there may be a risk that the added honey will kill off probiotic bacteria before they establish a stable population , allowing other unsavory bacteria to grow . However , most brine-based recipes already include known antimicrobial herbs such as mustard seeds , garlic , cinnamon , or cloves . Honey should n't be any different than the addition of these spices . When using vinegar to pickle , there is no reason to be concerned about adding honey . Regardless , it is important to note that honey will have a distinctly different flavor profile from pure sugar . Perhaps try it in a small batch before committing to " large scale " production .
I have been in this situation before and I did try freezing it . When I used it later on , it did taste and feel OK , but as you would expect , not the real fresh taste . I do not think the ingredients in the marinade will have any effect while it is frozen . While thawing , the yogurt might split , leaving more than usual water , but that shouldnt alter much of the outcome . It will be still good after defrosting ; I would normally defrost by leaving the item in the refrigerator overnight , rather than quick methods like microwaving or even leaving at room temperature on the kitchen counter .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
In all honesty , I think that apple juice is just a euphemistic way of saying sugar-water . The braising happens due to the sugar content mostly , which is why it does n't really matter what type of juice it is ( citrus excluded ) . The flavour of the apple juice will be almost completely lost during cooking , so you do n't need to worry about it too much .
In NZ normal pure cream is close enough to " double cream " in performance , it 's around 35 % to 40 % fat . By general global definition it should be called " heavy cream " NZ cream is pure skimmed cream from fresh milk , and does not need thickening or other processing to produce excellent results as a whipped product , or for a thick cream additive in sauces or fillings Cream can get a little seasonal just after calving time ( Aug ) , but in general it 's just perfect The export variety is often labelled " Culinary Cream " and is 38 % fat or higher . This is what many people around the world would consider NZ cream ( other than NZ butter or AMF ) If you want closer to 50 % fat cream , ask your local farmers for some raw milk and skim out the lumps of fat from that . Let the milk settle overnight and skim the cream from that . Then gently heat the fat lumps to melt and carefully mix into the skimmed cream . Not for the faint of heart ! NZ " Thickened cream " or " Mascarpone cream " is standard pure cream with a thickener like E1442 added , you can <URL>
It can be a bit tricky , a couple of tips : Use a lot less liquid in the blender than normal . Do batches if needed . Vent the lid so the steam can escape . A lot of lids have a center piece that can come out . Using less liquid will stop stuff coming out the top . As Ocaasi suggests , you can cover the open lid with a kitchen towel as you start to insure there 's no spray . Start the blender slow and then speed it up . This may not work depending on how fast your slowest setting is . But once the vortex gets going , the liquid wo n't splash . It 's only when the blades start that you have that issue . Slower start speed means less splash ( a vita-mix can start very slowly and have no splash at all , great for hot liquids but the price tag is a bit high ) .
There is lots of use for high temperatures . Especially pizza is the first thing that comes to mind ; there is no home oven which can get to the proper temperatures for a Neapoletana ( which are above 500 Celsius ) , but more is always better . Of course , the salesman will tell you what you need to hear to buy his product , do n't listen to him . This still does n't mean that you should only buy the oven with the highest max temperature ; there are badly built ovens which claim to reach 300 Celsius but ca n't actually do it , in this case you are probably better off with a better quality oven with a lower nominal maximum temperature . It is probably best to compare reviews made by independent test organizations .
Amchur does n't give much of a flavor other than sour , at least , not in the amounts I use of it . It does have a bit of a distinctive aroma , but really , to me , it is just a fairly neutral sour flavor . The easiest , most neutral substitute would be citric acid powder . Unfortunately , they do n't usually give concentration/strengths on the packaging , but comparing Ball Citric Acid for Canning to the powdered amchur from the Indian store , it 's pretty close . I think the citric acid tastes a tiny bit lemony , but not enough to make a difference . Also , the amchur powder I buy is generally quite finely ground , and the citric acid is generally in crystals . If you are doing something like a spice blend ( e.g. , chat masala powder ) you would probably want to grind the crystals up to match the texture of the rest of the spices . Depending on what you 're making , there are quite a few substitutions , but most of them would be more obscure than ( or at least as obscure as ) the amchur , and all would be less neutral . Also , amchur is dry , so adding something liquid might affect your recipe . ( Easy to adjust if you are adding to something liquid , of course . ) In many Indian dishes , most of the Indians I know simply do use lemon juice when they want to make something sour , especially for northern dishes . This really is quite common , and nearly every Indian cook I know in the US has a large bottle of lemon juice in the fridge for every day use . If you 're making something South Indian , tamarind pulp or paste is often the souring agent of choice , but it is distinctly not neutral . It has a distinctive flavor and will also darken things ( in a somewhat yellow-orange-brown range ) . Some regions also use dried kokum fruit in the same way ( classic Maharashtrian aamti , for example ) , but I would say it is even more distinctive than tamarind , and it also will darken it ( with a dark grey-green-brown range of color ) . For both kokum and tamarind , you soak the pulp in water and add the soaking water without the pulp to the dish . You can also usually find tamarind concentrate ( a tarry paste ) but I 've never seen anything like that for kokum . One more option I just thought of is using some other unripe or sour fruit . Amchur is made by powdering dried green mangoes . You can actually sometimes find dried green mangoes at places like Trader Joe 's and if it is unsweetened , a small piece of that can certainly be used , but it seems that any fruit that is firm and sour should work , such as an unripe plum or a very tart apple . In that case , I would suggest either cooking with a small piece or two of the fruit in the sauce ( if there is one ) and removing it later or you could try to crush it and press some juice out . The problem here would be in figuring out the correct amount to add , but I think you could start from the dried-to-fresh conversion rates for herbs .
The mixture should lighten in both color and texture , and it should be ' fluffy ' . It should also increase in volume . The point of creaming is to incorporate the sugar with the fat , while at the same time adding air to the mixture . The air bubbles introduced during creaming expand during cooking , making the cookies rise and giving a lighter texture . Cookies baked with under-creamed butter would therefore remain fairly flat and dense .
What I ended up doing was using 1/2 tsp of almond aroma and 1 tbsp of vodka . The taste was good , but I could have put much more vodka . I 'll do that next time .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
In this case , inoculation refers to the introduction of yoghurt bacteria ( <URL> ) that transform the milk into yoghurt . If anything goes wrong - from unclean conditions that let other bacteria grow to unfavourable temperatures that inhibit the proper growth of your desired lactobacillae - you speak of improper inoculation . The effects on taste and possibly food-safety have been discussed in your linked posts . So work in a clean environment , use a good strain of bacteria and maintain the recommended temperature range to prevent this .
What you describe are definitely symptoms of coagulating protein . Not all proteins in quark are coagulated , else it would n't be creamy but rubbery like mozzarella ( actually , more like cottage cheese , because it would still be grainy ) . My first guess is that the blueberry acid curdles the protein . Blueberries are also known to act a bit strangely due to their high pectin content , I once left blueberry-banana puree in the fridge with the intention to freeze it to sorbet when I come back from work , only to find it gelled too hard to go through the machine . But I doubt that this was the culprit in your case , if anything , hydrating pectin would have bound the water and prevented the proteins from the curdling . Setting pectin would have created a mass which is firm , but not grainy , and without a separate watery phase . As for the bitter taste , many fruits will create an unpleasant taste when exposed to dairy for a long time . Kiwis are especially bad offenders , but some melon cultivars are just as bad . I have n't noticed it in blueberries , but I do n't know if I have ever mixed them . Also , there are different plants known as " blueberry " , most of them just different cultivars , but the American and European variety are distinct species . It is possible that only some of them have this problem . If you want to prevent the curdling problem , you can add stuff which will get in the way of the proteins looking for a buddy to curdle with . Fat and sugar are very good in this respect - this is why you can make lemon tarts pretty well , you do n't curdle the custard despite the acid lemon juice just because the sugar content is so high . If you are trying to create a low-calorie snack , you can try gelling agents instead , which will not only reduce the curdling rate , but also sponge up the water when a bit of curdling occurs , leaving the final texture more pleasant . But it will also change the texture a lot , making it less creamier ( the one creamy binding , starch , ca n't be used without cooking ) and more like a jelly . Also you might get weird synergies between the natural pectin and the new binding agent , ending up with surprisingly firm food . In short , the best option is to just eat it right away . Everything else has drawbacks , and is not a complete solution in the sense that it probably wo n't stop the curdling completely .
You may absolutely freeze chocolate ganache and most other chocolate preparations . It should keep for up to a year without any noticeable change in quality . Try to get a tight seal so it does n't pick up other freezer odours . Use a small freezer bag if you can , and maybe put that in a hard sealable container as well . The freezing itself wo n't hurt the ganache at all but if it catches a whiff of those tuna casserole leftovers then you wo n't want to use it !
Refrigerate it and the fat will get on top of the water .
end question
start question
Does adding oil and fats affect bread crust development ?
Oil definitely changes the crust , and whether or not it 's " better " depends on what you 're going for . Oil in the dough tends to give a softer and thicker crust , while a lean dough tends to give a crisper and thinner crust . Other dough ingredients that tenderize include milk and eggs , and there are plenty of web pages listing " dough enhancers " that give various effects . Again , it all depends on what type of crust and crumb you want .
No . The amount of salt you would have to add to water to make an appreciable difference is enormous . Salt is added to water for various reasons : to season whatever is being cooked in it ; to maintain colour ; to maintain structural integrity .
In the Caribbean and other Rum producing areas , you find Rum in all sorts of recipes It is sometimes an unusual flavour pairing , but not necessarily bad . In savoury cooking it adds a semi-burnt sweetness , more like toffee or butterscotch than straight Rum Caribbean and Mexican cooking is well blended and harmonious with many common ingredients ( chilli , coriander , avocado etc. ) Considering the popularity of spicy jerk meat and Rum , the Rum Fajitas would be an interesting experiment
With kale crisps you are ideally trying to dehydrate instead of baking . This saves the chlorphyll from degradation . Depending on your green/veg chlorophyll starts to degrade between 100F-185F ( 40C-85C ) . Now , 220F-240F ( 100C-120C ) is as low as most domestic ovens go . However , if you are able to use a lower temprature , that would give you a greener result and a cleaner flavour . But it will take longer to crisp as you lower the temprature . Using a dehydrator would be ideal , running at around 140F ( 60C ) . Think of dryed fruit , herbs or even tomatoes , they are almost never baked , but rather dehydrated . You 'll also find that commercial kale crisps use a very low temprature and they are promoted by it as it keeps nutrients intact and preserves chlorophyll . A tip if you have to use your oven , keep checking and take them out before they crisp up completely . As they cool , the residual heat will dehydrate them a touch more .
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
There are two types of sesame oil you can normally buy . Pure sesame oil ( or just sesame oil ) has a mild sesame taste . Refined sesame oil is used as a cooking oil and only has a hint of sesame flavour . Toasted sesame oil is made from toasted sesame seeds ( and therefore tastes like toasted sesame seeds ) . Aside from the labeling , you can easily tell it apart from pure sesame oil by its much darker colour and stronger aroma . It is not a cooking oil , it 's more of a condiment and used frequently in Asian cooking . Neither of these taste exactly like sesame seeds on a bun , obviously , but the sesame flavour in toasted sesame oil in particular is very noticeable .
I 'll try to break this down into components to make it simpler . If a <URL> starts by combining sugar and a solid fat ( creaming ) , this incorporates small air bubbles into the batter which will be seed bubbles for the carbon dioxide produced by chemical leavening . Occasionally , this creaming is used alone for leavening ( as in traditional poundcakes ) . If the flour is added straight to this , it can help prevent the batter from curdling later if a colder ingredient is added . This also coats the flour with fat , preventing gluten development and making a very fine , tender crumb since the flour is " waterproofed " before other liquids are added . If eggs are added to the fat and sugar , you can make an emulsified cake but the presence of water when the flour is added can make it slightly tougher . Some <URL> ( usually with oil ) require all the liquids to be mixed together , and then added to all the dry ingredients which have already been mixed . Again , this can sometimes lead to a tougher cake since the flour is exposed to water . <URL> is to mix all the dry ingredients , then incorporate the solid fat into that , then add liquids . This will usually lead to tender cakes as the flour has been coated with fat before liquids are added . If a <URL> is leavened with whipped egg whites ( or whole eggs ) , those will be added last to prevent the bubbles from being knocked out by excess stirring . You pretty much always want the fat to be present when the flour is added though . As you saw in your recipe , adding liquid to the flour without the fat will allow too much gluten development and make your cake tough and dense .
Umami is the result of glutamic acid ( ions ) getting in touch with the tongue . Glutamic acid in fish sauce is the result of a fermentation process , which involves bacteria doing the work of breaking down fish components . Glutamic acid easily dissolves in water though . This is after all , how it was detected millennia ago and centuries ago verified by creating glutamic acid salts : Cooking seaweed in water and boiling the result down . The wakame is added due to its natural content of glutamic acid . There is n't anything special the pineapple can/has do to it that regular water ca n't do . Therefore the answer is : No , the purpose of the pineapple is not to increase the glutamic acid of the substitute .
Aged gouda is my favorite cheese ! Beemster Classic Aged is like a firmer , creamy , sweet , slightly sharp , nutty version of regular gouda . I 've never had a 5 year , but 2 year aged gouda ( like Beemster xo ) is kind of like a creamy parmigiano but not as hard ... nutty , caramel/toffee flavors with random crunchy tyrosine bits . I would expect the 5 year to be comparable in flavor to Parmigiano with more creaminess and a less crumbly texture due to the fact that gouda is made with whole milk while Parmigiano is made with partially skimmed milk . Truthfully , it rarely lasts long enough for me to use it in anything ... it is the perfect cheese to eat by itself or with apple , pear , or almonds . You can basically use them anywhere you would use a sharp cheddar or parmigiano .
As a general principle , any ingredients which do not require refrigeration on their own will not require refrigeration when mixed . A notable exception is raw garlic in olive oil ; raw garlic carries botulinum spores , which propagate in anaerobic environments . Cold helps to prevent the spores from multiplying and producing toxin , but does n't prevent it entirely . In addition , you will find texture effects ; olive oil is fairly unique among unprocessed ( as in , unhydrogenated ) vegetable fats in that it solidifies at refrigeration temperatures .
I think it 's more about technique than what fat you use when you 're looking for crispy outsides ( I 'm sure there is at least one question here already that has the technique answers ) . About the only solid advice I would give is that you need to find a fat that tastes good to you , or is neutral if that 's your preference , and make sure the one you use wo n't burn at the temperature you 're using . Beyond that , it 's all about taste and technique . edit : I looked for questions that might have solid technique answers , but did n't find any . So I looked out on the greater web and found some advice from Cook 's Illustrated . <URL> It does n't have the recipe for free , but the advice is good : Parcook at a fast simmer , get a little rough with the parcooked potatoes to rough up the outside , choose the right potatoes ( they liked Yukon Golds ) .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
The heat is the same ; all peppers contain <URL> . The <URL> defines heat in terms of capsaicin content . Use the peppers that have the flavor you want , and make it as hot as you want , and you 'll be set . And the flavor besides heat is definitely concentrated in the flesh , so you should n't notice any real difference in pepper flavor either .
The oil is bubbling very simply because of the water inside the object ( eg : potato ) that is rapidly vaporized when come into contact with the very hot oil . Incidently this is a very good thing as done right , all the water coming out of the object keeps it from taking on too much oil , which would cause you to have over-greasy food . Edit : Also note as @SF commented below , that this can also be a very BAD thing if you put something with too much water into hot oil . Adding this in so nobody burns themselves .
I blame the recipe , which calls for absurdly long mixing times , well past the point of overmixing . After you add the wet ingredients , the recipe has you mix for : 30 seconds at low speed for the milk 30 seconds at medium speed for the milk An unspecified amount of time at low speed to incorporate the first egg 2 minutes at medium speed for all the eggs ( 30 seconds after each ) That is simply way too much mixing for a cake . Personally , I do n't even like the concept of using an electric mixer at all , except to cream the butter . But that 's over 3 minutes of mixing and it is simply too high . You 'll end up with extremely tough , chewy cake , practically bread . If you look at the top-rated from-scratch cake recipes on various recipe sites ( e.g. Epicurious ) you 'll see that they all either call for incorporating the wet ingredients either by folding with a rubber spatula ( best ) or with an electric beater at low speed . Beware of " manufacturer " recipes - I do n't think I 've ever had a positive experience with one . You would think that they are authoritative sources , but in practice you 'll achieve much better results with a search engine and careful reading of the reviews .
Sugar does not cause sour food to be any less acidic . The difference is purely one of perception ; we are wired by evolution to prefer sweet tastes and tend to perceive less of other tastes when a high sugar concentration is present . Sugar does not ionize - it is not basic or acidic . Acidity itself is a chemical property , and only a base ( such as baking soda or trisodium citrate ) can actually neutralize it . Two other compounds - <URL> and <URL> - actually alter our mouth chemistry and really do cause sour foods to taste sweet , without actually sweetening the food itself . But plain sugar does nothing at all - there is no chemical reaction happening . It 's just masking other tastes , not neutralizing them . The reason sugar does n't mask bitterness as effectively as sourness is that sweet and sour have roughly similar taste thresholds , while most humans are extremely sensitive to bitter tastes . We can detect quinine ( the reference solute for bitterness ) in solution at 0.5 ppm , whereas sucrose is n't normally detectable at levels below 5000 ppm . The amount of sugar needed to mask a significant bitter taste is simply not practical . If you want to neutralize a bitter taste , <URL> .
According to <URL> , the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked , without any fat or oil , in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away . Fat ( usually niter kibbeh ) is then added , often in quantities that might seem excessive by modern Western standards , and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients . This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew .
What we perceive as " flavor " often comes from a lot of aromatic and volatile components that we smell . We smell them because they are volatile , which means that they tend to evaporate off food ( if they are small molecules ) or tend to be carried off of food ( for larger molecules ) . Aside from the basic sweet , sour , bitter , salt , and umami notes , the rest of the complexity of flavor comes from smell and volatile flavor molecules . If the only thing that evaporated when reducing a sauce was " pure water " in the form of steam , you would n't be able to smell it . Yet , when you cook a stock or sauce for a long time , the whole kitchen and house often smells with great aromas . More aromas in your house means more flavor lost from the sauce . So , if you do add water back into a sauce , your sauce will often taste somewhat more diluted . Or , more likely , it will taste " unbalanced , " since the smaller flavor molecules tend to escape faster and easier in evaporation . When we cook down a sauce and concentrate it , we 're used to the way the flavors change . But when you dilute it again , the flavors may not have the same proportion as the original . All of that said , the magnitude of this effect varies a lot depending on the sauce and types of flavors in it . If you over-reduce slightly and just add a bit of water back in , it 's not likely to make a huge difference . But if you took a giant pot of flavorful meat stock ( which tastes fine as-is ) , then reduced it down to a demiglace , and then added water back in to try to re-create the original stock , it definitely would taste very different and many flavor notes would be significantly weaker or lost altogether . As Harold McGee notes in On Food and Cooking ( pp. 600-601 ) : Slowly simmered until it 's reduced to a tenth its original volume , stock becomes glace de viande , literally " meat ice " or " meat glass , " which cools to a stiff , clear jelly . Glace has a thick , syrupy , sticky consistency thanks to its high gelatin content , about 25 % , an intensely savory taste thanks to the concentrated amino acids [ large , non-volatile molecules ] , and a rounded , mellow , but somewhat flat aroma thanks to the long hours during which volatile molecules have been boiled off or reacted with each other . ... Intermediate between stock and glace is demi-glace or " half-glace " which is stock simmered down to 25-40 % of its original volume . ... [ I ] t also has the advantage of sparing some of the stock 's flavor from being boiled off . ... Demi-glace is the base for many classic French brown sauces . Or , listen to James Peterson , author of Sauces : Classical and Contemporary Sauce Making ( 3rd ed. , p. 91 ) : Do not overreduce . Stocks are often reduced to concentrate their flavor and to give them an appetizing , light , syrupy texture . Although reduction is an almost essential technique for converting stocks into sauces , much of the delicacy and flavor of meats is lost if reduced too long . Many of the flavors contained in stock are aromatic and evaporate when simmered over a prolonged period , leaving a flat taste . In a later chapter ( p. 112 ) , he adds : " Stocks and sauces that have been overly reduced often have a flat , cooked taste that must be offset with more assertive flavors . " As Escoce 's answer points out , when you reduce a sauce significantly , it may " overcook " the flavors . Some of that may be due to browning ( Maillard ) reactions , but prolonged cooking will also break down some large flavor molecules , again lessening certain flavor notes and altering the balance . In tomato sauce in particular , you may also <URL> ( specifically pectin ) by overcooking , which will make your sauce more watery . For vegetable-based sauces , this can often be prevented by boiling the sauce briefly to deactivate enzymes before simmering to reduce . Because of the flavor changes and loss during reduction , many cuisines around the world have a tradition of adding some " fresh " ingredients near the end of cooking and/or when serving , such as fresh herbs , a spritz of fresh juice , or some chopped fresher vegetables . The flavors we associate with " fresh " are often the most volatile ones , given off early when a food is first cut or cooked . Adding them at the end can give a depth of flavor that would n't be preserved in a long-cooked reduced sauce . If you do end up with an overreduced sauce , the flavor is often best salvaged by adding some flavorful new ingredients ( as in the Peterson quotation above ) or at least adding some more of the " base " back in , such as more stock in a reduced stock or more tomatoes/tomato paste in a tomato sauce rather than plain water . So , how do you minimize flavor loss when reducing ? It 's tough , but it depends on whether more problems are created in flavor loss through evaporation or through chemical changes in the remaining liquid ( like flavor molecules breaking down ) . In most cases , the evaporation is actually a greater concern when making a sauce , so simm
When tomatoes are fried , you can see that the oil becomes coloured red - so at least some of the colour components are preferentially soluble in oil . I will hazard a guess that , under the circumstances mentioned , the oil coats the tomato particles , and some of the colour migrates into it to give a red surface . Because the oil forms a coating , that coat will inhibit oxidation . The oil will also improve the mouth feel of the soup . Just the way I see it ...
Both messes up the ratio , as you said , so you should n't use anything during kneading . You only need to use a little bit of something during shaping . With some pastries , the shaping is extensive and you get lots of the smoother worked into the dough ; this is expected and desired ( e.g. in strudel sheets ) . Properly kneaded bread dough does not stick to anything , even if it started out very wet . So , if it sticks at the beginning , just continue kneading until it stops ( I knead it between my hands then , not on a surface ) . When it is ready , it will not only stop sticking to your hands , but also pull the smear of the hand surfaces into itself , coming clean off them so you can work with it . ( You will still have to clean your hands afterwards from gunk between the fingers and on the back of your hands ) . When your dough is kneaded through , you want to form a good surface for the rising period . You can use flour , oil or water ; you 'll use so little that it does n't really matter much . Just spread a thin film on your surface , shape the boule and put it into the rising bowl . For the final rise , you want it to keep its shape when it 's put into the oven . So , when you are giving it its final shape , you can use either flour or a starch to prevent it from sticking to whatever it is rising on . I knew somebody who swore by rice flour as producing the least stickiness , but use plain wheat flour myself . You can even lay it on a bed of flour ; it is not getting pressed into it , so it wo n't absorb it and get hard . But you will have a layer of either raw or burned flour on the prepared bread . An exception would be very oil-rich breads ( at least half as much butter as flour ) . They do better when the final shaping is done in oil too . For pastries and cookies , it depends on the type of dough . If it is supposed to be a hard dough , use flour . The strudel mentioned above is made in flour . If it is supposed to be a soft or tender dough , you can try shaping without any smoothening ( for example many cookies will flow into a smooth shape during baking even if put onto the sheet as an unsightly pinched ball ) . Ugly sticky pastry doughs like pie crust can be rolled into submission if you roll them between two smooth silicone mats , but you ca n't get them very thin that way . If you need them at less than 4 mm , use flour , best in combination with the silicone . Plastic wraps also works , but you might have to use two pieces per surface when the crust gets wide . If you have a dough which really feels half-liquid in your hands , shape with flour . Corriher 's very light southern biscuits from Cookwise are a good example for such a dough .
end question
start question
Are there any substitutes for squash puree ?
If you want something storebought , just get pumpkin puree - it is squash puree , not really even a substitute . Pumpkins are squash , and " pumpkin " is a pretty broad term , covering a lot of winter squash . In fact canned pumpkin is often made with things more similar to butternut squash than what you 'd think of as pumpkin ( jack-o ' - lanterns and all ) . Just make sure you do n't accidentally get some kind of pumpkin pie mix that has spices and maybe other things added . I suppose if you ca n't find that either , you could also look at baby food , since squash is fairly common there . If you really ca n't find anything in the store , though , do n't just give up on the recipe . It really is incredibly easy to make - just cut squash in half , throw in the oven cut side down , bake until it 's soft , scoop it out and mash up a bit . The actual active working time is only a couple minutes , and you 'll probably get much better flavor than you would from canned goods .
Yes , and Wikipedia has a <URL> of these scales ( with some further details in other portions of the article and the links ) . Basically , at least four of the five recognized primary " tastes " have a reference compound that other foods are compared to subjectively . For sweetness , a solution containing the test compound is diluted until sweetness can barely be detected by a human taster ( similar to the Scoville scale ) . Sucrose is given the reference value of 1 ( or sometimes 100 ) . Sourness is similarly rated in comparison to a dilute hydrochloric acid solution , saltiness is rated in comparison to a dilute table salt ( sodium chloride ) solution , and bitterness is rated relative to a dilute quinine solution . ( I 've not heard of any similar scale for umami . ) In most cases , the reference compound is given a value of 1 . The most common way to reference these scales is as the " [ taste ] index , " as in " Citric acid has a value of 0.46 on the sourness index , " which means it has to be diluted slightly less than half of how much hydrochloric acid would be for it to be on the threshold of human sourness detection . ( By the way , while these scales show us something , they are mostly useful for comparing single pure substances . For culinary purposes , their value is somewhat limited by the complex interactions among various tastes and flavor components . Even individual substances can change flavor depending on environment : for example , a complex molecule may taste relatively neutral at neutral pH , but with increased acid and thus sourness , it may acquire a salty flavor . )
If cooled and stored properly ( minimize air space in the container ) , most soups will should last in the refrigerator up to 5 days . Do you really want to be eating the same soup that long ? I would suggest dividing your soups into smaller sized containers and freezing it so you have a wide selection available at any given time . Depending on the ingredients most soups can be succesfully frozen for long term storage . Dairy based items are more likely to curdle/separate after thawing so you 'd be better to add the cream/milk when you 're reheating it . Chunks of potato or pasta are likely to break up a bit and have a more mealy consistency so it would also be better to leave the potato out and add to it and cook when reheating .
You could try Peychaud 's Bitters ( difficult to find ) , Fernet-Branca , orange bitters or other types of bitters . Worcestershire sauce may also be used as a substitute but works well in savory dishes . I would n't recommend it for a Manhattan . Or , if you 're very ambitious you can try to make your own bitters , although the ingredient list is somewhat intimidating ! Good luck ! <URL>
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
Splenda , besides giving you the runs , is very hard to bake with . My wife had gestational diabetes so we tried baking with splenda and nothing turned out right . Splenda has no nutritional value . Raw sugar is great , but it has a slightly different taste than processed sugar , similiar to brown sugar . Artificial sweetners would probalby have similar issues to splenda , but I 've never tried them outside of sweetening tea .
There is no substitute for salt . Sorry . It has effects on the tastebuds and the body that can not be replicated . However ! They can be approached to a degree that most people will find interchangeable . Acids can mimic the flavour-enhancing qualities of salt in a big way . The more acid you have in a dish , the less salt you will need . Beware of going too far , of course , as too much acid is just unpleasant and will need salt to counterbalance . Heat -- as in capsaicin , chili peppers -- can produce much the same effect . Echoing papin 's information above ; NA and K ( sodium and potassium ) exist in balance in the body . Too far in one direction and you have a heart attack ( too much K ) , too much in the other and ( if memory serves ; I could be wrong ) you essentially drown ( or is it edema ? I ca n't remember ) . If avoiding sodium is related to a health concern , please speak to your primary healthcare provider before adjusting your diet in this way .
SAFETY should be your primary concern in all cooking methods . The danger inherent in cutting dense , hard , ROUND foods is that they tend to roll or shift when pressure is applied , thus allowing hand or fingers to suddenly slip under/against the cutting edge . One key to safety is STABILITY . Hasty chopping , hacking , swinging , or stabbing motions are dangerous -- especially if you ca n't be sure the food will stay put . Firm , controlled movement upon a stable surface is the safe way . Placing the squash on a nest fashioned from a tightly-wadded or rolled , clean kitchen towel is a good way to achieve stability . It is also important to work with a very sharp knife that has a rather thick blade . This acts like a wedge acts in wood-splitting . The knife should also be several inches longer than the diameter of the widest place on the squash , to allow for gripping both ends of the blade during the final cut through . Place the squash on your towel nest , use another kitchen towel , folded , as a sort of mitt . This " mitt " should be thin enough that you can grasp firmly with it . ( 100 % cotton towelling usually grips better . ) Using your mitt , grip the wider end of the squash ; insert the tip of the knife into one of the longitudinal ridges , with the cutting edge away from that mitted hand , until the knife has nearly come out the opposite side , lodging in the flesh of the squash on the opposite side . Then , lever the knife edge down in a motion that uses the lodged knife-point as a fulcrum . ( Think of the motion of a paper-cutter . ) Flip the squash over , repeating this , until the pointed end is cut all the way through . Up-end the squash , placing it on its stem end in the towel nest . Check for stability . Place your knife into the slit , perpendicular to the axis of the squash . Use your gripping towel to pad the non-cutting side of the knife , then press down until the squash is cleaved through .
Have you tried using a candy thermometer and testing the jam when it 's at 220 ° F ? An alternative to the method that you use is to use a spoon and do the ' two drop test ' . If you dip a cold metal spoon into your jam mix and then lift it . When the mixture is only just boiling it will drip off and be light . As the mixture continues to heat the drops that fall from the spoon will be heavier When the two drops form and fall off the spoon it should be ready . I 'll be honest though I much prefer the method you use and this is just an alternative .
It 's safe . All that matters for safety is that the food stays out of the danger zone ( above 140F ) . But it sounds like a pretty reliable way to overcook things . Perhaps that 's why it sounds absurd to you ? Slow cookers tend to be somewhere between simmer and light boil ( probably at least 180F ) , and there 's very little that wo n't be fully cooked after half a day at those temperatures . If you cook for days , you 'll start turning beans and vegetables to mush , and may manage to make meat tough from overcooking . So at best it 's pointless , and at worst it 's going to mess up your food .
There 's limp and then there 's limp . As the celery ages , it will get more and more limp ( and more bitter ) , and eventually neither delicious nor safe . If you 're sweating the celery and it 's a little less than crudité crisp it should be fine . Just sample it first to make sure it 's not too bitter .
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
When I was a kid , we used to run over them with the car . Put a bunch in the driveway and drive over them so they got a single pass from a tire . That usually crushed a few beyond help , but just split the majority open nicely . They were still a lot of trouble to pick from the hulls , and ultimately not very nice to eat , IMO .
If you pinch off the basil flowers as they start to grow , the plant will produce more leaves . ( Yes , this is a horticultural answer , but it will help you make more yummy dishes with the leaves . )
Based on your description , it looks like you 've made the common error of assuming that equal volume is equal weight . Butter is more dense than flour so the same volume does not equal the same weight ... you must convert the 1/4 cup for each product using a trustworthy site . Here 's one that <URL> and includes both butter and flour . As you can see , 1/4 cup of butter is 57 grams . If you look at the next chart , you see the conversion for flour and you can see that 1/4 cup of flour is only 32 grams ! This means that , if you added 60 grams of each , you 've got twice as much flour ( the thickening agent ) than the recipe calls for ... so of course it 's going to be way too thick . I recommend you start over and be more careful with your conversions . As a note , my standard recipe for Mac and Cheese uses 4 tbsp each of flour and butter ( generally equivalent to 1/4 cup ) while it only calls for two cups of milk rather than three , so I usually have a much thicker white sauce than yours will be and I find it quite enjoyable . The <URL> ( an iconic American cookbook ) recipe calls for the same percentages for their white sauce - 2:2 tbsp of butter/flour with 1 cup of milk . To answer your questions in the comments , pure butter ( rather than spreadable butter/margarine or butter blends ) in the US is usually sold in one pound boxes containing four sticks per box . Each stick is 1/4 pound of butter which is equivalent to 1/2 cup . Each stick is wrapped in waxed paper and has tick marks to show each tablespoon of butter for a total of eight tablespoons . <URL> Occasionally the paper is n't perfectly aligned but it 's usually a simple matter to adjust your cut position to allow for the offset . So , a cup of butter is two sticks , a 1/4 cup of butter is a half stick . and a tablespoon is 1/8th of a stick . Your second question I think comes from a misunderstanding of how thick the white sauce is when completed correctly . With the proper percentages of flour and butter ( and using two cups of milk ) , the final consistency you get is somewhere between thick cream-based soup and thin hummus . Adding the cheese usually does n't effect the thickness because the cheese melts and is about the same consistency as the white sauce . I also like adding softer cheeses that melt well like goat cheese for both flavor and textural reasons . Once baked , the final outcome will be fairly solid and casserole-like . You should be able to cut it with a knife and expect it to hold its shape to a good degree , like this : <URL> This recipe will not make the creamy-style macaroni and cheese ( an example is shown below . That is a different process and is generally not baked . <URL> So that you can see the differences in the recipes of baked and creamy styles I 'll link you to a couple " creamy-style " mac and cheese recipes from other sources . This is a <URL> from Whole Foods Market , an American grocery chain and here 's a <URL> recipe from Serious Eats .
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
If you do it properly , no there are no health issues . A combination of two things are required to kill beasties : heat and time . The higher the heat you expose them to , the faster they die . Generally any temperature above 130 F is enough to kill most beasties , it just requires a significantly larger amount of time compared to a higher temperature . I go into a lot of detail regarding Salmonella in this answer of mine : <URL> I have several tables there to show exact timings , etc. . If you think I should copy/paste that here , then let me know in a comment
I have not heard of any machine of that nature , and I try to keep up with an assortment of home beer brewing sources . If anyone would have come up with something , it would probably be brewers , since we tend to use large amounts of live yeast . About the most advanced thing I have heard of is storing wort in Nalgene bottles after boiling and using that for a starter . I ca n't think of an analog for sourdough that would be safe and keep the starter maintained with a good flavor . Pro brewers or bakers may have a tool that I 'm unaware of , though . I 'm sure you could come up with some sort of <URL> to feed your starter , but really , it 's like taking care of any living thing . You have to water and feed plants , animals , and yeast cultures . It 's a small amount of work , too , really . Add water , flour , maybe some sugar , and stir . You might want to stick with non-sourdough breads if you ca n't make that kind of time investment .
Stock is made from bones only and broth is the liquid that meat has been simmered in . A well made stock should be clear without particles or cloudiness . Broth will usually be somewhat cloudy due to containing more dissolved proteins . Bones for lamb stock ( and any brown stock - veal can be made white or brown but lamb is usually brown ) are typically first roasted . The roasting will melt fat that may still be intact . After roasting bones for stocks such as lamb , veal , and duck you would then remove the bones from the roasting pan and roast the vegetables . You can use the residual fat for coating the vegetables prior to roasting . ( Just put vegetables in roasting pan and toss to coat with the fat ) . Fat from the bones will congeal on the top once the stock is chilled and you can then easily remove it . I would n't add or purposely leave chunks of fat attached to the bone as you just have to remove it later but what is there is n't a problem .
end question
start question
Could I add butter to single cream to make whipped/double cream ?
No , it wo n't work . Michael 's comment explains why . Whipping cream is not just fat and water mixed , it is fat and water emulsified . This is a big difference . If you had some special reason to do this on a regular basis , you could get it to work by adding emulsifiers . You can beat any fat with water and lecithine or xanthan and get a creamy result . As far as I know , this is how plant based cream substitutes work . But if the issue is that you just do n't have whipping cream right now at home , then it is easier to go buy whipping cream than to go find emulsifiers ( I buy mine online , do n't know if there are brick-and-mortar B2C stores which sell them ) . If for some reason you absolutely ca n't do it in time , I would suggest using a different filling . Pastry cream works well with millefeulle , buttercream can work too , lightened with whipped eggwhites if necessary .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
Heavy Whipping Cream ( at least in the States I believe ) has a fat content of 36 % or greater . Light Cream generally sits between 30 % and 36 % . Heavier cream generally will have a " richer " taste . Light Cream will also not whip quite as thick and not hold it 's form as well . That said , for most cases , I 've successfully managed to use them interchangeably . I guess it might make a difference if you were doing something where holding a rigid structure for extended periods of time was important . Note : What various grades of cream/dairy are called varies by region ... Here in Canada we have Whipping Cream 35 % and Heavy Cream ~ 40 % . If I were somewhere where " Light Whipping Cream " sat closer to 30 % , I might grab something a little higher . <URL> <URL>
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
You 've certainly got the right idea - cream of tartar is nothing more than an acidifier and so any acid can be used as a substitute . It combines with water to create tartaric acid . Two important characteristics of cream of tartar are that it is ( a ) dry and ( b ) mostly flavourless . Vinegar , lemon juice , etc. are all wet and add some flavour of their own . The substitution ratio most often cited for baking is 3:1 - that is 3 tsp vinegar or lemon juice for every 1 tsp cream of tartar . Do n't use the 1:1 ratio typically given for egg whites ( meringue ) - the whole point of this in candy is to actually lower the pH , not just stabilize a foam . Again , pay close attention to how much liquid you 're adding , and if it 's significant , adjust the water content accordingly . ( Note : Technically , lemon juice would normally have a lower pH than 5 % white vinegar , but the actual pH of these is so variable that it usually ends up being pointless to worry about it . Consistency is one of the advantages of using cream of tartar . ) You could also use citric acid or ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) . Citric acid is far more concentrated than lemon juice , you would only need to use 1/4 ( 25 % ) of the amount of lemon juice . That ends up being about 3/4 tsp citric acid for 1 tsp cream of tartar . It 's a much closer substitution and does n't change the flavour much . I believe that ascorbic acid is the same . Both are normally sold in anhydrous ( powder ) form , similar to cream of tartar . All that being said , cream of tartar really is n't hard to find , it 's sold in the spice section of any grocery store . One little tin will probably last you many years , so just buy one next time .
As someone who uses liquid nitrogen as part of their daily routine ( in a lab ) and who has made liquid nitrogen ice cream on several occasions , my advice would be to not use a plastic container to hold liquid nitrogen unless it 's designed to . Yes , the plastic vessel may become brittle and may fracture . I have seen some materials shatter with extreme violence when frozen with liquid nitrogen ; do not attempt this . Vessels for handling cryogenic liquids are designed especially for the job , and made from materials such as stainless steel , styrofoam , teflon , HDPE or silvered borosilicate glass . Unless you know with certainty that your container is designed to withstand temperatures of -196 & deg ; C ( -321 & deg ; F ) , do not attempt this procedure .
Philadelphia Brand ingredients : Pasteurized Milk and Cream , Whey Protein Concentrate , Salt , Carob Bean Gum , Xanthan Gum , Cheese Culture . Organic Valley Cream Cheese ( do n't know which brand you used ) ingredients : Organic Pasteurized Milk and Organic Cream , Cheese Culture , Salt , Organic Locust Bean Gum . Nancys Organic Cream Cheese ingredients : Organic cream , Organic nonfat dry milk , L. acidophilus , B. bifidum and 4 strains of Lactic cultures , salt . < -- no gum in this one The fat specs for all 3 brands are about the same . I 'd say it 's any combination of : the gums used did the manufacturer use milk and cream processed through ultra high temperature ( UHT ) pasteurization what is the moisture content ( hard to determine from a label ) maybe human error by the Baker ??
Ice cream is an emulsion and in it , you have air , fat , and ice . The smaller the ice crystals , the smoother the icecream and better chance of achieving a velvety , creamy , smooth texture . The flavor is also elevated given the smaller crystals . Put it in the freezer , and ice crystals start to grow bigger and you lose the benefits . Also , colder temperature inhibits the taste buds ability to pick up sweetness . At liquid nitro cooled temperatures , you can get an explosion of flavour as the icecream warms up and melts in your mouth and the taste buds start to pick up on sweetness . Finally , aside from a show , it 's much much faster to make icecream with LN2 than in a regular machine . Seconds versus 30-45minutes . There are hazardous issues with liquid nitrogen and handling . As a starting point , look into <URL> .
Well you 're kinda right about it lasting a long time due to the sugar content . That will help the preserving process to the extreme . However , to be pratical you should be looking at how long the butter fat will survive in the fridge before it starts to take on funky flavours and looses it 's moisture . You 'll be fine in an air tight tub for a month or so but then flavour will suffer . If you freeze it ( it can be done but the quality will really suffer later ) you can get away with 4-6 months before freezer burn kills it . Honestly , I 'd just do smaller batches and enjoy the higher quality product . For what you save on time doing the larger batch , you 'll give up on taste and quality later .
<URL> has about 80 % fat , 15 % water and 5 % solids . Depending on where you are located <URL> has 48 % fat ( UK ) , 40 % ( Canada ) and the remaining fraction is obviously water and little solids . Supposed , you need 100g butter in your receipe . This means that the dough will have 80g fat and 15g water ( for a simple calculation I omit the content of the milk solids ) . If you want to substitute butter with double cream , you will need about 165g double cream to have the same fat content in the dough as if you used butter . The problem is the water that you will have in the dough : You will have 83g water in the dough which is 5,5 times more . Since there is very likely little water in a biscuit receipe and it is not possible to adjust the amount of other liquids ( because there are no other liquids ) I doubt that this substitution will work with a biscuit receipe . With a cake receipe you might have more luck ( e.g. leave 83g - 15g = 68g milk out ) . Making a simple buttercream ( as known as American buttercream ) with double cream is not possible because it has almost no liquid . You could try other fillings like <URL> . I am certain that there are plenty <URL> for cake fillings with double cream .
Gluten is a protein that gives bread elasticity . Water makes gluten spirals relax , and kneading helps stretch the gluten and connect with other gluten strands . Bread that lacks stretchiness : may not have enough gluten to start with . If you are using a low gluten flour then you wo n't get and elasticity . In general any plain white flour will have enough , but for best results use bread flour , also known as strong flour may be too dry . Gluten needs water to relax and stretch , if your dough is too dry , or " tight " , then you wo n't get good elasticity may have not been worked enough or worked in the wrong way . Kneading mechanically stretches gluten , if it is n't kneaded enough , or the technique is n't right , then no elasticity may not have been risen enough . Yeast actually improves the dough , it really works on the gluten . Rise is n't just about leavening , it makes a big difference in elasticity . You should notice a big difference if it 's been risen enough If I had to put money on it I 'd say it 's probably your dough being too dry . This is an easy mistake to make , you turn your dough out on the counter and it 's really gooey , must not have enough flour right ? But as gluten get worked it uses up some of the extra moisture , so adding too much flour at the beginning will rob the gluten of the water it needs to relax . Kneading with oil instead of flour may help there . As an aside , I generally add a couple of tablespoons of olive oil to my pizza dough to improve flavor and texture although that 's totally optional . Also , you did n't list salt as an ingredient , bread needs some salt , many bakers recommend 10g per 500g of flour , although I usually cut that down some .
Eventually , yes ... but it does have a fairly long shelf life . According to <URL> , you should expect 1 to 2 weeks after the date on the package . They say : You can tell if sour cream has gone bad if you notice dark mold on its surface , bright bacterial marks , pockets of watery liquid and a sharp , bitter flavor . First the liquid will begin to separate , at which point it can still be used but within a week you will need to throw it out when you notice mold on the inside of the lid and then in the product .
I would think this is happening because your cream is just about to turn sour . As cream ages , lactic acid builds up in it . The acidity in your coffee is enough at that point to push the cream over the edge to curdling . Try newer cream or a very low-acid coffee with old cream and you should be OK .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
It 's really a matter of preference . Some people like the salty dimension that butter gives along with clotted cream and jam , others think the cream is enough saturated fat to be going on with .
There are many variants of sour cream . I am not quite up to date on the naming of dairy products in Belgium , but do n't you find sour cream labeled as " zure room " ( Dutch ) or " crème aigre " ( French ) ? Mexican sour cream ( Crema Mexicana ) has however a higher fat content than the sour cream commonly available in European countries . A close approach is crème fraîche , but it might not be just as sour . If you want to make it yourself , you can add living bacteria culture ( e.g. from yogurt ) to heavy cream ( fresh cream with > 35 % fat ) and keep it at roughly 37 ° C until it reaches the required thickness .
This is what we figured out at Serious Eats : <URL> In sum , use more sugar , whip the cream , freeze in icecube trays and run through a Cuisinart at the end .
There are cultured soy and coconut milk products ( generally sold with yogurt ) which can be used as a sour cream substitute ; it 's frequently advisable to add a little extra vinegar or lemon juice as these products do n't generally provide as much kick as real sour cream .
You can be quite free with your sugar amount , depending on what you want to achieve . I would say that as a rule of thumb , you do n't want to create too great a contrast between your sauce and your other components . So , if you are using it for dipping fruit , you can use less sugar than usual , else the fruit will be perceived as too sour . For a rich torte , you can go up with the sugar . As for the normal range , it can start at zero , but this is very unusual for sweet applications . The upper bound is given by foaming : you ca n't whip cream well if it has less than 30 % fat . ( This number is for pure raw cream , and varies even there , depending on factors like cow breed . It can be slightly higher or lower depending on cream treatment - pasteurization etc. - and the amount of stabilizers usually added to whipping cream ) . So , if you start with a cream which has 35 % fat , you should n't add more than 16.7 g sugar per 100 g cream ( 40 g sugar per 250 ml ) . Else your texture will suffer . You also ask for a standard amount . This will vary regionally . The Professional Chef recommends 57 g of sugar per 454 g ( a pound ) of cream , which translates to 12.5 g per 100 g , or 30 g per 250 ml . This is an American book , and I have found that using 2/3 to 1/2 of the recommended amount in most American recipes results in good-tasting sweets , whereas the original amount often produces oversweetened dishes . This would be my guideline for a standard amount too . You can adjust it to your own taste . On a side note , The Professional Chef insists that it whips best if the sugar is sprinkled in after you have achieved soft peaks . I have n't done it this way , but it is worth a try .
If you 're using plain cocoa powder , which does n't really dissolve , I would mix it with the coffee powder before adding to the water , and as long as the coffee powder will tolerate it , add it all to the water before heating . Mixing the two powders should help avoid clumps in the cocoa powder , and adding it early will give it time to release flavor into the water . You 'll still have to stir a bit to keep it from settling out , though ! If you 're using instant cocoa mix , which is sweetened and processed to make it dissolve evenly , you can just add it at the end . There 's no benefit from adding it earlier , and it 'll be easiest to stir and dissolve it in already hot water .
end question
start question
Is there a faster/less messy way to stuff manicotti/canneloni ?
Piping bag is your answer . You just do n't use a tip on it .
You need to acquire a poppy seed grinder ( picture # 1 ) . It 's still not easy to grind a lot of poppy seed -- you will need to break out your supply of elbow grease -- but it 's much more efficient than a coffee grinder . It also does a better job , because it actually crushes the seeds to release all their oils and other goodness , rather than haphazardly cutting apart some of the seeds and not others . ( They do make electric grinders [ picture # 2 ] , but they 're aimed at bakeries and the like , not for home use . ) 1 . 2 . If you 're stuck using what you have , namely the coffee grinder , try adding sugar . It helps keep the poppy seed from sticking everywhere you do n't want it to . Naturally , you then need to take the sugar quantity into account when you 're actually using the poppy seed .
For very high hydration loaves , you want to create your gluten development without adding an excess of flour which would reduce the relative hydration . <URL> shows the classic stretch , slap and fold method , using a 70 % hydration dough . Basically , you lift the entire dough from the work surface , allow it to stretch under its own weight , then slam it down again . Rinse and repeat . A somewhat less labor instensive method is described at <URL> ( the article has a lot of introductory material , keep reading and there are really clear instructions with lots of photos ) : Initially stir the dough together until it is is a thick and cohesive liquid , which the author describes as " like porridge . " Use the stretch and fold method of kneading to create some development : Flour your work surface moderately Pour the dough out onto the surface Use your bench knife knife ( also called a dough scraper ) to lift and drop the dough back on itself , stretching it . Images from the Fresh Loaf Allow the dough to rest and autolyse , that is , develop gluten from the reaction of the water and precursor proteins in the presence of enzymes naturally in the flour . This limits the amount of hand kneading you have to do . Repeat the stretch and fold method a couple of times to get the final development Finally , note that very wet doughs can also be kneaded entirely in a stand mixer simply by beating them for a couple of minutes . These doughs are wet enough to be nearly pourable , and do not climb and clump onto the paddle ; if they do , the hydration is not high enough for this method , and you need to use the dough hook instead .
It depends . If you need it to soften up for just a little while you can throw it in the mircowave for about 10-15 seconds . And by a little while , I mean the time it takes to make and eat a sandwich . Other than that , you can use the bread for breadcrumbs or croutons . Also , dry bread makes the best french toast you will ever have . Basically , you ca n't turn back time on a loaf but you can make it last longer by freezing it and thawing a slice at a time .
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
Yes , they can . Most people I know who make them for the first time just use too much filling . Traditional leaf-wrapped dishes ( I know them under the Turkish word ) use a softened leaf ( use pickled ones , or blanch fresh leaves ) and a small amount of filling . Use one heaped tablespoon of filling on a 10 cm leaf , then wrap tightly . A demonstration with sauerkraut sarmi is available on YouTube : <URL> . Watch 2:10 to 2:30 . The end result does not fall apart , even after cutting into it . ( grape leaf on the left , sauerkraut on the right ) .
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
425 & deg ; F is so hot that it will surely burn over-do the outside of a ham before the inside will get warm . However , you can slice the ham then warm it for about 10 minutes . Slicing it will allow the whole slice to get warm , while not over-cooking the outside .
Cook it less , if you can . The more you cook it , the more you get that smell . Perhaps you are just more sensitive to it than most ; I do n't generally notice it until it 's overcooked by my standards . Along with this , cook it as fast as you can . The flavor you do n't like is produced by enzymes converting precursor molecules into those with the flavor . From On Food and Cooking : Heating cabbages and their friends has two different effects . Initially the temperature rise ... speeds the enzyme activity and flavor generation , with maximum activity around 140F/60C . The enzymes stop working altogether somewhere short of the boiling point . If the enzymes are quickly inactivated by plunging the vegetables into abundant boiling water , then many of the flavor precursor molecules will be left intact . ... If the cooking period is prolonged , then the constant heat gradually transforms the flavor molecules . Eventually the sulfur compounds end up forming trisulfides , which accumulate and are mainly responsible for the strong and lingering smell of overcooked cabbage . So as suggested by others , boiling instead of steaming to reduce cooking time helps . So does cooling quickly , with cold or ice water . Boiling in excess water will also leach some out , but you might also lose flavor you like . A couple other thoughts , also from On Food and Cooking . Cabbage family vegetables grown in the summer , and under drought stress , produce more of the flavor precursors , and those grown in the autumn and winter with less light and more water have less . They 're also more concentrated in the core of the vegetables . And for cabbage , you can remove a lot of them by chopping and soaking in cold water ; conceivably the same could work for broccoli , but again perhaps at the cost of desirable flavor .
In general , it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe , if you 're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question . It 's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you 've added too much . Assuming you are reading this because you did n't do that , and have now ended up with a sauce that 's far too spicy , then read on . The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from ? There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation . In most dishes they 'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following : <URL> , which is the active alkaloid in black pepper . This has poor solubility in water , however , it has better solubility in alcohol . If you can incorporate wine or better yet , brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol , this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper . <URL> , the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers , is the highest on the <URL> ; extremely piquant and can produce a " burning " sensation in very small quantities . It is also poorly soluble in water , but is far more soluble in fat , especially oils . Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat . Garlic , onion , and other members of the <URL> family put out a volatile sulfur compound called <URL> . Although this is not " spicy " in the same sense as pepper , many people perceive it as such . Like piperine , it is more soluble in alcohol than in water . However , and here 's the catch : That allicin breaks down into various <URL> when cooked , and those polysulfides are fat soluble . So if you 're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour , it 's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases . If you 've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you 're dealing with <URL> and <URL> , the latter of which pack a much bigger punch . One of the things you can actually do with ginger is <URL> which converts those into much milder <URL> . In other words , add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you 'll lose some flavour but in the process you 'll break down the ginger spice . Alternatively ( for ginger ) , all of the above compounds are alkali soluble , so if you add a buffering agent - say , <URL> ( additive E331 ) , it will improve the solubility a great deal . If , like most people , you do n't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen , you can try using something like baking soda , but too much of that will completely ruin the taste , so be careful . In fact , do n't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor . I think that about covers it for common " spicy stuff " that goes in sauces . If you want to fix a dish that 's too spicy , you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what 's most appropriate for that particular sauce . You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet , for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar . That will not eliminate the heat at all , but does seem to make it more tolerable for many .
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
Personally the only way I 've ever achieved a good suspension of vanilla in my Brûlée 's is by cooking the custard over a bain-marie until thick and ... custard like . Once it 's nice and thick I 'll then pour it into my molds and then bake them for 10-15 min at around 110 ° c just to finish off . Be very careful not to over cook them the last thing you want , after all that stirring over the bain-marie , is curdled eggs . The extra thickness of your custard helps stop the vanilla seeds sinking to the bottom . However , you will still get a little sink-age . The trick for Pannacotta , is to stir them as they begin to set . Or to whip them after they have set and then stick them back in their molds and chill again . This also helps make your Pannacotta lighter and aerated .
Depends on what you 're doing with them . Shallots have very fine layers ( allowing them to blend into sauces and dressings ) , and have a flavor between garlic and onions . If you 're mincing them fine and sauteeing them or whisking them in as the foundation for a sauce , I 'd suggest substituting pearl ( boiling ) onions or the white parts of green onions and maybe half a clove of minced garlic . If you 're slicing and frying them , regular onions should do , although I 'd look for smaller ones and slice thin . Red onions have a flavor more like shallots than yellow or white ones , but may add an undesireable color to the dish . If you 're chopping them , or cooking them peeled and whole for Southeast Asian cuisine , again pearl onions are probably the way to go .
Alton Brown <URL> using a piece of string to scrape the bone clean . First he cuts and trims the bulk of the meat down to where he wants it . Then , he uses a string tied to a garage door handle ( very cheap at any hardware store ) . Loop it around the bone a couple of times and pull , and it cleans it right up .
This gadget wo n't make the pie itself less runny , but it will help keep your pie from running . <URL>
Ok - finally got it open ! While googling , I came across a suggestion to cover the lid with a plastic glove and use that for traction . Not sure if it was the combination of running under hot water + the glove , or if the glove would 've worked on it 's own , but it 's open now :)
Let a hot pepper ( jalapeño or habañero , perhaps ) soak in your liquid for however long it takes to achieve the desired hotness .
Use something that will help you measure the dough or mix uniformly . Some possible tools to co-opt for this task : Ice cream scoop , melon baller , measuring cups or spoons : all depending on size of course . You should be able to get to where you can eyeball the size in relation to the tool you are using .
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
end question
start question
Why use yeast instead of baking powder ?
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
In both cases , you do n't add the recipe 's amount of water to the proofed yeast . If your recipe says e.g. 500 g flour , 300 g water and 10 g fresh yeast , you measure these 300 ml water , then pour some of the 300 ml over 10 g of pressed yeast to proof it , adding a teaspoon of sugar if you want it quicker . After that , you mix flour , proofed yeast and the remaining water together ( for simplicity , I left out salt and possible other ingredients ) . You do it exactly the same way with dry yeast , only you have to use the correct substitute ratio , which is 3:1 . So you measure 300 ml of water and ( 1/3 ) * 10 g = 3.3 g of dry yeast . Then you pour some of the 300 g of water over the dry yeast , and after it has bloomed , you mix flour , sponge and the remaining water . The bread hydration stays correct , and the fermentation time/amount is equivalent to the fresh yeast case .
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
When both are used , the fresh yeast is for " added flavor " , the dry for leavening power . Another author who does this is Nancy Silverton . - Some bakers believe that fresh yeast ( a.k.a. cake yeast or wet yeast ) gives a more yeasty flavor to the final product . I do n't think it does . It 's also more perishable , ( sometimes ) more expensive , more difficult to find ( and when you do , it may be near its expiration ) , more challenging to use , and less reliable ( re : reproducible outcome ) . When I encounter a recipe that calls for it , I convert to instant yeast using this old , but reliable chart : <URL> If you <URL> , you 'll find more information ( that may or may not be reliable ) .
I would recommend a combination toaster and convection oven . While I have a regular oven in my small apartment , I rarely use it in favor of saving energy ( and money on my energy bill ) by using the toaster/convection oven . I have purchased toaster oven sized muffin tins ( just a 6 muffin tin ) and a toaster oven sized roasting rack that fits two sizes of meat . My oven came with a roasting pan . The convection features have done wonderful things for my pies . You can get them big enough to make pizza in . As long as you are n't cooking for a crowd , it will work wonders . Things I 've successfully baked in there include : Muffins Cake ( did have to do it one cake at a time for a layer cake ) Pie ( the convection feature is perfect for pie ! ) Bread Cupcakes Pitas Steak ( well , it was a broiled steak recipe - the best I can do without a grill ) Chicken breasts I had a friend who rented a place that has a convection cooking setting on the microwave . We successfully used it to make muffins once , but I have n't tried it further .
The key issue is getting the contents of each jar up to the requisite temperature for the necessary time , all the way through to the center of the jars . It would be conceivably possible to use steaming to do so , if the requisite controlled temperatures and times could be regulated , and appropriate recipes developed . However , according to the USDA as reported at the <URL> : Steam canners are not recommended because processing times for use with current models have not been adequately researched . Because steam canners do not heat foods in the same manner as boiling-water canners , their use with boiling-water process times may result in spoilage . If purpose built steam canners are not recommended , I would strongly urge you not to improvise with other devices . You should only use recipes and methods for canning that come from highly reputable sources , such as a University Extension .
I 've had this happen with other types of spices as well . I put it in the blender or coffee grinder to loosen it up again . Works well for me .
Technique is the key here . If she is using oil expect she is adding the eggs before the oil is hot , she is probably also rushing her attempt to turn/flip/scramble / move them . One of the hardest things to learn when frying eggs is to walk away immediately after adding the eggs to the hot pan . I notice you are in Germany , I do n't know what your access to the USA 's " Food Network " is but this episode of a Alton Brown 's " <URL> " can <URL> . ( pardon the pun , could n't resist ... )
I am afraid that gloves make things worse . Even with proper training , people who wear gloves seem to be more complacent that those who do not wear gloves . I have seen people handle dollar bills then turn around and touch my food with the same gloves on . Disgusting , and I refuse the food , and when I tell them why , they say the gloves are to protect me ... what the F ever . Then I ask them how that glove protects me From The germs on those dollars you just touched ? I find its better to enforce good hand washing habits than it is to allow gloves to be used at all . When you are wearing gloves , you do n't even wipe your hand on a towel , without gloves your hands kinda start to tell you they need to be washed if you 've been lax .
I ca n't say why you 'd want to do this in general for other types of sponge cakes . But in the linked recipe it 's very clear . The reason is because the milk/butter mixture is heated " to just under a boil " and according to the instructions should still be at least " hot ( about 150F ) " when added . In this case , you take out a small portion of the batter , then add this hot liquid mixture to it . If you do n't mix rapidly while doing so and if the temperature is a little off and too hot , you run the risk of coagulating the eggs in the batter ( which would obviously not result in a desirable texture to add back into the rest of the batter ) . Here , as the recipe notes , you 're using this portion of the batter as a liaison , which is a fancy word for a mixture the serves as an intermediary temperature between something hot and something cooler . By adding the hot milk/butter mixture to a small portion of the batter ( rather than the whole batter ) , you cool it enough so that it wo n't risk coagulating eggs in the whole batter . But in the process , you need to whisk rapidly to avoid small egg bits forming curds and becoming solid , so you 're sacrificing some of the bubbles in this portion of the batter to create an appropriate intermediary temperature mixture , which then is presumably supposed to be gently folded back into the rest of the batter . Now , the question is why you 're heating the milk in the first place . There is a whole genre of cakes called " hot milk cakes " or " hot milk sponge cakes , " which seem to have originated in the early 20th century . They use this rather unusual mixing method , where you beat the sugar and eggs for a long time first , then add flour and dry ingredients , and then add liquid and fat at the end . I 'd speculate that the hot milk serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it helps melt the butter , which both allows the liquid butter to combine easier with the existing mixture and causes it to coat the flour better which results in a tender crumb ( less gluten network formation ) , and ( 2 ) it raises the temperature of the batter above room temperature , thus shortening the time before the cake structure starts to solidify while baking . My guess is that this is helpful because the sugar/egg foam is less stable than , say , a sugar/butter " creamed " foam ( as in a pound cake ) , and if you do n't get the eggs to coagulate fast enough , the whole thing might collapse . ( Again , that last part is just a guess . ) The goal is to end up with a very light and tender cake .
It will produce the same effect , however it might alter the taste ( depending on the type of beer ) , and will almost certainly alter the color of the final product , as beer contains sugars that will increase browning .
The existing answers already explain why yeast and baking powder wo n't work together . But even if they did , you would n't have a reason to use them . You seem to think that fluffiness depends on the amount of gas produced by the leaveners . In fact , it depends on both the gas and the ability of the dough to trap that gas . If you produce too much gas ( no matter whether through yeast or through baking powder ) , then the fluffiness will be less than when using the optimal amount of leavener . This happens because your dough can not hold the gas and the bubbles break , resulting in the dough deflating like a punctured tire . So even if combining two leaveners would have resulted in more " blowing big " action ( which it does n't , see the other answers ) , you would not end up with a fluffier end product . If you want fluffy muffins , you have to use a recipe and a technique which is best capable of retaining the gas produced by the baking powder . The amount of gas production is not a bottleneck .
Korean chilli is a little different as it has a slight smoky flavour , in addition to being slightly sweet and also quite hot . The actual name of the chilli use in kimchi and for that matter , most Korean dishes is gochugaru ( 고추가루 ) . It comes in a variety of preparations , typically , finely ground , flakes and a paste . You should be able to find this in most good supermarkets or an Asian store . If you ca n't get this , you can still use a good quality chilli powder or possibly , a paste .
It 's a great addition in just about any clear stock soup ( non-cream-based ) such as chicken , beef and even vegetable . ( It 's actually great for vegetarians and vegans who may have difficulty getting enough of their b-complex due to a meatless diet . ) It enriches and deepens the flavor while providing a bunch of minerals . It 's also an easy way to " rescue " a soup whose depth of flavor and savoriness ( umami ) fell short . Couple of caveats : It might make your stock cloudy if you add too much It does n't seem to stay in solution in stock too well . Needs frequent stirring in the bowl to keep a consistent flavor
Baking powder , especially if too great a quantity is used , adds an unpleasant flavor to a baked good . Even in an appropriate quantity it can be noticeable and it certainly does n't do anything to enhance the flavor . Many baked goods traditionally do n't use a chemical leavener at all , but instead rely on technique . Creaming butter and sugar together or whipping egg whites was historically used to make cakes which rose solely based on the bubble network that was created . Yeast , on the other hand , creates a delightful flavor that you associate with your favorite crusty loaf of bread . Yeast can be used not only in making bread but also in some excellent cakes ( <URL> , for example , although many " knock off " recipes cheat here and miss out on the true goodness ) . Yeast also provides a significantly different texture during the rising due to the intentional creation of a gluten network ( usually something you absolutely do n't want in a quick bread or quick cake ) -- you do n't get a crumb with big , airy holes from baking powder or baking soda with an acid . Also , in my experience baking powder lasts six months in the pantry and yeast lasts at least six months in the fridge . The shelf life is not so different . If yeast scares you , you may want to check out some of the proponents of the <URL> technique . For a lot more information on this subject , there is a recent publication that covers all sorts of <URL> .
In theory chakki is a flour mill , and chakki atta is flour fresh from that mill . Realistically of course nothing you find on your grocery store shelves is fresh from a mill . Atta flour is made from hard wheat , which has a high gluten content . This means that your flour is probably better for bread than typical all-purpose whole wheat flour from the baking aisle . If it is hard white wheat this might explain the color , as ground white wheat does n't look that much darker than all-purpose flour . Like typical grocery store whole wheat flour , atta flour is coarsely ground . This may give your bread a more grainy texture ( not a bad thing ) , and makes atta unideal for cakes , biscuits , and quick breads unless you like them with a coarse texture in the crumb . If you would like to use whole wheat for baking other than bread , whole wheat pastry flour is the usual suggestion ( or grind wheat yourself to a very find grind ) .
The air pressure is lower at higher altitudes ; when you add extra flour to your baked goods , it prevents them from rising too quickly or too much . ETA ( about the water ) : Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes , so the extra water called for in high-altitude baking is to compensate for all the water turning to steam faster than it would at sea level .
Normal double-acting baking powder makes CO2 ( thus giving a rising effect ) in two ways : when it gets wet , and when it is heated . Baking soda only makes CO2 when it gets wet . From Wikipedia : The acid in a baking powder can be either fast-acting or slow-acting . [ 6 ] A fast-acting acid reacts in a wet mixture with baking soda at room temperature , and a slow-acting acid will not react until heated in an oven . Baking powders that contain both fast - and slow-acting acids are double acting ; those that contain only one acid are single acting . By providing a second rise in the oven , double-acting baking powders increase the reliability of baked goods by rendering the time elapsed between mixing and baking less critical , and this is the type most widely available to consumers today.to consumers today . See : <URL>
end question
start question
What 's an efficient way of removing seeds from citrus fruits ?
The best way I 've found so far ( for juicing ) is to just thoroughly squeeze the pieces between thumb and forefinger over the flat part of the juicer chute so the juice flows down the chute and the seeds pop out for removal .
That 's the same method I would use . If you have a salad spinner you could try giving them a gentle spin in there first . They are sturdy enough ( unless they 're over-ripe ) that they should handle a gentle pass through it .
The key is how you expect the person to eat it . Some garnishes are not for eating at all - the sprig of mint or entire stalk of rosemary that the eater is expected to just remove and set aside . I do n't do this - and plenty of judges on plenty of cooking shows have intoned " never put anything on the plate that I am not supposed to eat " - but if you do , make it as large as possible and just one piece so it 's easy to remove . Assuming I 'm supposed to eat it , am I supposed to get a little in each bite ? Cut it up small . Am I supposed to get rather a lot in each bite ? Leave it bigger . Is it a herb that tastes different chopped than whole ? If so , which way do you want it to taste ? If the item is picked up to eat ( eg an hors d'oeuvre ) then typically you leave the pieces larger so they 're less likely to cascade off . Search for images of chive garnish and you 'll see tons of teeny little pieces on a tomato salad , and single or double 2 " pieces draped across a devilled egg . Above all , practice and confidence . If you know why you 're putting parsley , mint , cilantro or chives on the plate at the last minute , you 'll also know what size , how many , and whether they are in one little pile or all over . And when you know all that you 'll bring out the plate with confidence .
I usually slit the prawn flesh just above and along the line of the vein to expose it and to make it easier to then pull out . This is different from butterflying a prawn , which involves a deeper cut ( but not all the way through ) of the prawn along most of its length along the same line as the de-veining cut , but also leaving the tail on usually . <URL> shows the de-veining technique and the butterflying .
Describing the only method I know , and hoping that somebody will come up with an improvement , because this one is quite time-consuming . First , clean your pumpkin seeds and toast them . They cling to the hull when they are raw . When toasting , it is preferable to use lowish temperature for a long time , so you can prevent strong taste changes and burning . If I remember correctly , it is also a good idea to let them cool them first , because they are more likely to break when hot , but When the seeds are ready , you want to pop them out of the shell . For this , hold a seed between your thumb and index finger . Apply pressure to the most prominent parts of the edge . Ideally , the pointed part of the hull will split along the edge , and the seed will fall out , or you will be able to squeeze it out . Even if it goes like that seed after , it is a slow , monotonous work . Often , the hull will refuse to split , or the seed will break within the hull , or it will cling to the hull and refuse to come out after it has split . And then there is no guarantee that you 'll get the beautiful plump seeds you see in the supermarket , because carving pumpkins are n't bred for nice seeds , it can happen that yours are very small and thin and not a particularly good decoration . Conclusion : it is possible , but even if I had the seeds sitting around , I 'd throw them out ( or feed them to birds outside ) and get hulled seeds for cooking , instead of spending half a day to get a handful of seeds out of their hulls . If it does n't bother you , or if you can find a more efficient method , feel free to do it and share your process improvements here .
If you just need the pulp ( for pie , ice cream , jam , etc. . . ) then cook them down and run them through a food strainer . If you need them raw , or halved/skins on , then find a good audiobook ...
You can not ; they are full of solanine , which is poisonous . You can use the seeds however to grow new potatoes , though they wo n't breed true to the parent . This website has some great information : <URL>
Try searching for shaker lemon pie . You can also find a couple recipes for " shaker orange pie " but the lemon version is the more common one . It definitely works well with lemon . If the recipes specifically with orange do n't work out , you could also try starting with a shaker lemon pie recipe , replacing the lemons with oranges , then adding lemon juice and reducing the sugar to rebalance the sour and sweet . ( I do n't think you can just cut the sugar really drastically ; there 's generally enough of it to contribute to the texture , not just sweetness . )
Short of using an electric juicer , the squeeze press type of juicer is very popular for doing large quantities of citrus quickly and efficiently . They are both fast , and squeeze almost all of the available juice , getting the best of both worlds . These come in sizes that are best for limes , lemons , oranges , or even grapefruits .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
I 've never done this , but what about filling the bowl with water , lowering the spinning basket into it so the lettuce shreds lift off , then dumping it out ?
Fennel and caraway are relatives , but not the same plant . Fennel seeds have a flavor dominated by anise/licorice , where caraway is quite different , being dominated by other flavors . They also have subtle differences in appearance . Cumin , anise , and dill are other look-alike seeds with very different flavors . Anise and fennel have very similar flavors , and can be substituted for each other . Caraway and dill are likewise similar in flavor . Cumin has a flavor different from any of the above . I am including pictures of fennel , caraway , anise , cumin , and dill seeds so you can see how similar they are , but also how there are subtle differences in shape . Fennel Seed : Caraway Seeds : Anise Seed : It is hard to tell from the picture , but anise seeds are much smaller than fennel . Cumin Seeds : note , these vary considerably in color Dill Seeds : ( note how much flatter theses are )
Do n't eat it as-is . It contains cyanide . Bitter almonds are the definitely poisonous thing you 've probably heard of ; they contain enough cyanide that just a few could kill a small child ( according to On Food and Cooking ) . The poison is released when the kernels are broken , as defensive mechanism . The variety we eat is a " sweet " safe version which does n't have cyanide . Other stone fruit kernels are essentially like bitter almonds ; the plants are closely related . Fortunately it 's pretty hard to accidentally eat bigger kernels ( apricots , peaches , and nectarines ) that could carry enough to really be harmful . Smaller things like cherries of course do n't contain as much , so it 's no big deal if you accidentally swallow some , but you still should n't go out of your way to eat them . The key almond flavor you 're familiar with from almond extract is benzaldehyde , a byproduct of the cyanide production - unfortunately the poison and the delicious flavor come together . ( The plants actually produce amygdalin , which is then broken down into sugar , benzaldehyde , and hydrogen cyanide . ) The extraction of the benzaldehyde is a chemical process that you ca n't really do at home , so you ca n't just make almond extract/oil directly from them . The best general reading article about bitter almonds I found was <URL> , from the LA Times in 2002 . A few notable parts : The lethal dose of raw bitter almonds depends on the size of the nuts , their concentration of amygdalin and the consumer 's sensitivity . But scientists estimate that a 150-pound adult might die from eating between 10 and 70 raw nuts , and a child from ingesting just a few . Schrade , who studied organic chemistry at Yale , learned that because hydrocyanic acid vanishes into the air when heated , cooking destroys the poison in bitter almonds and allows them to lend their flavor to a wide range of dishes , both traditional and modern . The FDA clarified the agency 's position recently , saying that it would allow bitter almonds to be shipped interstate to professional chefs and bakers , as long as their dishes were cooked to be nontoxic . In any case , although it may be safe for most adults to nibble a raw bitter almond to experience its intense flavor , that would be unpleasant to most people . The nuts are not meant to be eaten as a snack food like regular almonds : They 're used as a spice , like nutmeg or cinnamon . So in summary : it sounds like fully roasting the kernel would make it safe , but since it should be something like a bitter almond , you probably do n't want to just eat it like that , but rather incorporate it into something . And of course , I 'm still unsure of the exact definition of " fully roasting " for complete safety . Dharini 's comment below links to a suggestion that you need 10-15 minutes at 350 ° F , or possibly less if you 've already removed the kernel from the pit , but other ( also unreputable ) sources I found recommended as much as 20 minutes in a " warm oven " for bitter almonds . Finally , the recipes at the end of the LA Times article are presumably safe , if you want to use them as starting points . ( Obviously the risk is lower if you 're just trying to eat a single kernel , but I do n't want to make any unfounded recommendations . )
The perfect solution to you - Use the Indian spice called " Asafoetida " or " Hing " . It gives a taste which is very much like Onion and Garlic - In fact , stricter practitioners of Hinduism are not allowed to eat onion and garlic ( as supposedly they cause mental agitation ) . Thus , traditional Hindu ( Vedic ) cooking uses Asafoetida as a subsitute for onion in Indian recipes which almost invariably call for the use of onions . The spice gives off a slightly funky smell ( I like it , but most people describe it as bad ) , but tastes great . It is easily available in powdered form in Indian grocery stores - and usually comes in small containters such as this : It has a VERY strong taste , so put a very small amount of it - about a 1/4 of a teaspoon for a dish that 's meant or 4 people . Usually in Indian cooking it is quickly fried to get rid of the " raw " taste . I am not sure how well it tastes in salads , you 'd have to experiment with it .
The best way ? Plan better . :) The microwave is rarely a good plan for quick defrosting , as you found out . I would suggest putting the container in warm to hot running tap water . The warmer the water is the faster it will melt , but it will also melt more unevenly - though nothing like the microwave . The important part is that the water is running , and is at least room temperature . It 's not going to be quick like a microwave , but it 'll be faster than just letting it sit . Edit I 've never tried this , but I imagine a hair dryer might work well too . It 'll just be noisier :) The concept is the same , just moving air instead of water .
It not huge , it 's just the difference from freezer to room temperature you are worrying about E.g. -20 & deg ; C to 20 & deg ; C , is A 40 & deg ; C shift . The shift was going to be 20 & deg ; C to 100 + & deg ; C anyway . There is no physical reasons why this would be anymore stressful From room temperature you are raising it 80 & deg ; C , from frozen you are raising it 120 & deg ; C. Not a problem in the normal temperature range for glass The freezing temperature of water ( most common item in food ) has no relation to the freezing temperature of glass etc Pyrex and other glasses can be damaged if one part of them is instantly heated or cooled by a 100 & deg ; C or so
The goal with ribs is " low and slow " cooking to break down connective tissue . But a quick sear will help to lock in juices and provide a good smoky flavor . I find it 's preferable to do this first so that the smokiness can work its way into the meat over the slow cook to come . After seasoning , I would start with a sear on your grill over direct heat ( 8-10 minutes per side ) . Then , either move to a very low indirect heat on the grill and cover , which will provide a more smoky flavor , or transfer to your oven at a very low temperature ( most home ovens go down to about 250F which is what I 'd use ) . Baste both sides every half hour or so if you 're using sauce . It should take about 2-3 hours at this low temperature to get good results , although you can let it go a lot longer if you want . I would have no problem at all cooking ribs for 6 , 8 , or 10 hours assuming you 've got the time . If you 're cooking on the grill the whole time , the smoke will help create a delicious glaze . If in the oven and the glaze is n't as thick as you 'd like by the time you 're ready to serve , you can crank on the broiler and place the ribs underneath for just a couple minutes to dry out the glaze a bit . You do not need to wrap them in foil during cooking if you have quality ribs and cook them slow . The only time I 'd wrap them in foil would be at the very end once you have finished cooking , in order to keep them warm until you 're ready to serve .
Fine mesh sieve is the usual way , but the way you describe it , yours is not fine enough . Look in professional stores for a " chinois " , this is the kind of sieve you need . But yes , it will take a long time . In classic restaurants , the stock will be cleared before going through the chinois . This is done by floating a rack of eggwhite which bounds the stray proteins . It is at least as slow as the cheesecloth , but more nerve wracking , because you have to do it manually , and it is rather finicky and can easily go wrong . I remember reading about a modern trick of clearing which used gelatine and freezing the stock without a mesh or a rack , but do n't know any more what it was . Maybe somebody else has read it and can supply the details . Edit I returned home and looked the freezing method up ; it is listed in the book " Cooking for geeks " . It contains the sentence As the water in the stock freezes , it will push the impurities into the gelatin The book also has pictures . They show that you do n't end up with fine protein sediment clogging your sieve and finest slit in the stock . The first picture shows the drip-freeze filtered stock compared to the same stock filtered at 100 microns , the difference is large . The second picture shows that after the procedure , what stays in the sieve are cohesive pieces of gelatine with the particles trapped inside , not a film of the scum . So it seems that there is a reason for freezing first . For home use , I just do n't bother clearing my stock , I just use a tea sieve to remove the worst of the protein . When simmered without allowing it to boil , this produces reasonably good stock without all the fuss .
To store fats , you should always use glass as plastics react to fats by absorbing some and perhaps discoloring or transferring flavors to your fat . Depending on use , I prefer to work with cold fat at the start as it has a much broader possible use and I do n't like to wait when I make biscuits , so I keep mine in the fridge . However , you gain very little extra life out of keeping it in the fridge and if you do n't keep it in a sealed container you run a very real risk of flavor transference there to . If you do n't make pastry dough or other such , your counter top is a perfectly acceptable place to store , as long as you use it up before it goes rancid . One thing to keep in mind is that fats can sometimes have very different shelf lives , so make sure you taste or smell before use , regardless of storage method .
Never down the drain . We 've had a few incidents in my neighborhood where the sewer pipes were clogged with fat , and a few people 's basements flooded with sewage as a result . For fats that solidify , let them do so , then pitch them in your regular garbage . Chill grease in the fridge if you need to get it to harden up . For ones that do n't solidify , pour them into a sealable ( <URL> ) bottle , and throw the whole container away with your regular garbage . It 's possible that your area might accept cooking fats &amp; oils as part of a recycling effort . Ours does for motor oil ( I live in Maryland ) . For restaurants , some places ( eg , the state of Maryland ) require a system for catching grease that 's been washed down the sink . It 's my understanding that they 're fairly expensive ( a couple thousand dollars US ) , but the fines for not having one installed may be even more , and they wo n't let new restaurants open without one .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between gazpacho and normal soups ?
Gazpacho is possibly Spain 's most famous chilled soup . The main difference aside form the temperature is that it 's raw , meaning that the soup is not actually cooked it 's just blended and chopped vegetables and occasionally bread . There is nothing inherently wrong with heating up gazpacho but it would lose its fresh texture and flavour which is why it 's chilled and according to Wikipedia was popular with labourers who used it to : " cool off during the summer and to use available ingredients such as fresh vegetables and stale bread " The main reason you could n't just chill a normal soup and call it gazpacho is because gazpacho is made up of by no means just tomato . It contains tomatoes , a bit of garlic , cucumber , occasionally bread , some vinegar for tang and a drizzle of olive oil at the end . If you wanted to make it your own ( after all you 're the chef ! ) you could add some Tabasco , bell peppers , spring onions or croutons at the end , basically anything you might find in a salsa dip . Use your common sense for what not to add but even in Spain they have variations that are not at all like what I would think of as gazpacho : in La Mancha they use it like a stew and add game ( usually rabbit ) and even wild mushrooms ! Hope this helps and gives you some inspiration , if you want a recipe a quick search on Google gives a multitude of <URL> .
In today 's modern culture and cooking style , the difference is likely unobserved . I would consider a stew less constructed than a casserole , however . While the stew would start with generally uncooked ingredients ( perhaps except for browning the meat , and likely be mixed together while cooking to give a single-dish of meat , vegetables and sauce . A casserole might include some cooked ingredients , often be more properly layered and probably not mixed while cooking .
The problem is , both Sarge 's and Carmi 's answers are right depending on who is using the word . Some people use the word seasoning to just mean salt , some mean salt and pepper , and some mean " anything you want to use to bring the flavor to the desired point , including salt , pepper , lemon juice , spices , herbs , etc. " If you are dealing with someone in person , it is best to ask . With a cookbook , sometimes you can figure it out from context or from other recipes . Otherwise , you 'll have to make your own best call . In my own recipes , I will generally write " taste and adjust seasoning , adding salt and/or more lemon juice as needed " .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
Enchiladas are normally shredded meat and/or cheese rolled in corn tortillas , covered in red ( or green ) enchilada sauce and cheese , and then baked . Fajitas are normally strips of meat either grilled or sauteed ( often with onions and peppers ) . They can be used in tacos , burritos , or served on their own or with tortillas on the side ( corn or flour depending on preference ) . Tacos can be either hard or soft shelled and are usually meat ( shredded , ground , grilled etc ) with some sort of cold veggies ( like lettuce , raw onions , pico de gallo , etc ) and perhaps cheese etc. .
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
In my experience the primary difference is that Calzones have Ricotta ( and possibly Mozzarella ) and Strombolis only have Mozzarella . In the Philadelphia area , both are folded over pizzas , basically . Growing up , my mother made Stromboli and it was rolled , not folded . I rarely see that in a pizza shop these days , but I do prefer that in a Stromboli . Edit : Just read systempuntoout 's link to Wikipedia and it confirmed something that I was going to post and then deleted . When I was growing up , Strombolis were made from bread dough and Calzones were made from pizza dough ; nowadays all of the pizza shops just use pizza dough . I remember bread stores as being the primary place to get Strombolis growing up because they were the ones that made the dough !
Here 's a report on an informally conducted taste test suggesting that there are indeed detectable differences between various vodkas : ( the report does not say so , but I suspect that much like wine , whether one vodka comes out as better as another one has little to do with its price , except at the very bottom end of the price range ) And , yes , there are differences -- a truth known by anyone in the liquor industry with a little sense . But one that is frequently forgotten -- partly because our government insists on characterizing vodka as a " colorless , flavorless , odorless " beverage ; [ ... ] That there are subtle , and sometimes dramatic , differences in flavor and odor between one vodka and another was driven home recently by a daylong seminar hosted by Absolut . [ ... ] Central to the event was a blind tasting of 12 different vodkas . [ ... ] The main lesson of the tasting -- or re-learned lesson , since many of us in the room knew it already -- is that the biggest difference between the flavors of various vodkas derives from the source material , and that difference is easily detected , if you pay attention . Vodka can be distilled from anything , but the most common raw materials are grain and potatoes , with a few using molasses and grapes and other things . Grape-sourced vodka typically has a fruitier character ; grain-sourced has the expected bready , yeasty and , yes , grainy notes , with the rye vodkas having more bit and spark than the barley or wheat ones ; and potato-sourced vodka has a rounder , sometimes buttery flavor . From : <URL> Another taste test conducted by the New York Times suggests the same thing : Delving into the world of vodka reveals a spirit unlike almost any other , with standards that make judging it substantially different from evaluating wine , beer , whiskey or even root beer . A malt whiskey should be distinctive , singular . The same goes for a Burgundy or a Belgian ale . But vodka ? Vodka is measured by its purity , by an almost Platonic neutrality that makes tasting it more akin to tasting bottled waters , or snowflakes . [ ... ] A lack of distinctiveness is a separate matter from a lack of distinction . The vodkas we tasted had character and their own flavors and aromas , even though the differences among them were often subtle and difficult to articulate . [ ... ] That being said , at the end of our tasting it was Smirnoff at the top of our list , ahead of many other names that are no doubt of higher status in stylish bars and lounges . [ ... ] The prices of these vodkas ranged from a low of $ 13 for the Smirnoff to a high of $ 34 for Potocki , a Polish vodka that did not make our cut . The Belvedere also cost $ 34 , but that was for a liter rather than the usual 750 milliliter bottle . Imported vodkas tend to cost more , partly because of taxes levied by various governments , currency exchange rates and , not least , marketing concerns : as has been proved in many industries , wine not least of all , raising the price of a product increases its status among consumers . From : <URL> As a counterpoint , here 's another report suggesting most people can not tell the difference : To summarize our findings , Given a particular brand of vodka , people prefer its taste after it has been filtered , but this is most likely because filtration reduces the alcohol content . Most people ca n't tell the difference between an expensive vodka with high alcohol content and a cheaper vodka with lower alcohol content . Our second experiment demonstrated approximately equal preferences for Pavlova and Ketel One . Although Pavlova contains 3-5 % less alcohol by volume than Ketel One , it is also 70 % cheaper , so it would seem a clear winner . From : <URL>
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
Yes , there is a difference in taste . I think it 's the chlorophyll , but I may be wrong . But the green asparagus has a " vegetable " or " grassy " taste which is n't present in the white asparagus . The white one has its own distinct aroma , which is less pronounced in the green one . As for texture , Caleb already said it . White asparagus is more tender , if you buy it fresh enough . On the other hand , non-tender green asparagus is snappy and somewhat brittle , like a normal stalk . Non-tender white asparagus is tough and stringy . When I cook white asparagus , I remove the lowest part ( the most stringy one ) and peel it ( the outer layer is especially string prone ) and sometimes , if it turns out to be low quality/old , it still has an unpleasant texture . The green one seldom requires removal of the lower part , and never peeling . Violet asparagus is like white one in both taste and texture , but not as common . Oh , and what Caleb says about both being the same plant is correct , but I have never heard of little shades . All farmers in Germany grow white asparagus underground . They make mounds of earth above the place where the asparagus is planted , and it has to grow a lot before it reaches the surface . They also cover the mounds with black foil to get the earth warm in spring . The harvest starts sometime in April and ends by tradition on June 24 . It is done by hand , because machines would break the rods . This makes it a quite costly vegetable . And it should be eaten fresh , because the longer it spends outside of the earth , the stringier it gets . I do n't share the common German enthusiasm for white asparagus ( " royal vegetable " etc. ) but think that it is a good vegetable in its own right . If you can get it fresh , it is worth eating now and then .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
Coriander leaf/cilantro looks VERY similar to flat leaf parsley . When I have both at the house I sometimes resort to smelling them to know which is which . Cilantro is very strong smelling , and you 'd definitely change the flavor of the dish if you left it out . Flat leaf parsley is significantly more subtle and has a much milder flavor and scent . It is not flavorless , and in a recipe that calls for a lot of it , you 'd really be missing something by leaving it out . When you 've got a recipe that calls for both parsley and cilantro , you 're definitely going to be more able to taste/smell the cilantro more than parsley , but they 'll both contribute different notes . If you have to leave one out , leave out the parsley , but do n't try to make up the volume with more cilantro , as you may wind up overpowering your dish . Just leave the parsley out and proceed as normal . Do not use curly leave parsley in anything -- it is tough and virtually flavorless . It is ONLY a garnish and not worth wasting your time on .
When you are making blueberry muffins , frozen and fresh blueberries will give different end results . Frozen blueberries will almost " melt " when you bake the muffins , because the skin becomes more fragile after freezing . If you use fresh blueberries , they will be more intact after baking and will sometimes still " burst " when you bite into them . Which of these outcomes you prefer is entirely subjective ( though obviously frozen are better ) . As for the taste , some blueberries will have more taste than others . If they are grown out of season , they will most likely be flavourless . This goes for both fresh and frozen blueberries . I 've found a brand of frozen blueberries that I use for muffins that give a have a nice taste year around : others may be terrible . For the remark your wife made about frozen blueberries being rotten : I do n't know where you live , but that is most certainly forbidden in the US and Europe , and probably most places where frozen blueberries are available . That is the only part of her argument that was most definitely wrong . Everything else is subjective or depends on the specific brand of blueberries or even the time of year .
I have a bottle of San-J Tamari ( black label ) in my fridge and the back reads : Tamari is a premium soy sauce made with more soybeans than ordinary soy sauce giving it a richer , smoother , more complex taste . Tamari has more flavor enhancing properties than salt . Add 1 tsp . ( 320 mg sodium ) instead of tsp . salt ( 590 mg sodium ) to reduce sodium intake . Stir-fry or marinate poultry , meat fish and vegetables . Add 1-2 tsp . to perk up sauces , soups , gravies and casseroles . In my experience , I use a little less tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . As Sean mentioned , it 's definitely a bit stronger than regular soy sauce . I eyeball most of the time , but I 'd say I use 1/2 to 3/4 portion of tamari when substituting it for regular soy sauce . I reach for the tamari when I want a bit more of a complex flavor on something plain like rice - when the soy sauce is to be the star of the dish , essentially . I tend to use regular soy sauce when mixing into a larger homemade sauce or where the soy sauce flavor will blend into the background because the recipe calls for so many other strong ingredients . Oh , and tamari seems to add a bit of an almost " smoky " flavor , it seems .
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
end question
start question
Is there any way to remove stains ( e.g. from curries and pasta sauces ) from plastic containers ?
After washing them , fill them with a mild bleach solution ( one tablespoon for each cup of water ) and let them out in the sun exposing the stain for a whole day . Make sure children and animals can not reach the containers with bleach . There used to be a product called Cascade Plastic Booster that you could add to your dishwasher that would remove the stains . It 's no longer sold but its main ingredient was benzoyl peroxide at 5 % , which you may buy in most drugstores .
Your best bet for preserving quality ( and safety ) is to re-seal the bag , then leave them in the fridge for a bit . You want them to thaw a little , so you can pry them apart . Its safe to re-freeze after this ( as the meat never entered the danger zone , indeed it probably never got above ~ 30 ° F ) . There will be some quality loss from the partial thaw-freeze cycle . I recommend waiting to do this until you 'll be cooking at least one of the steaks . Now , how to freeze them : Freezing in vacuum bags is n't special . Just like with freezing in ziplock bags , freezer paper , foil , etc. , you need to freeze individual servings individually . If you want to economize on vacuum bags , you can try one of : Wrap the steaks in plastic wrap or freezer paper to freeze . Once frozen , transfer to vacuum bag and draw vacuum . Place two steaks in the bag next to each other , separated by ~ 1in ( depending on thickness of steak , you want the bag to be able to conform to the shape of the steak ) . If you 're using an external vacuum machine like a FoodSaver ( as opposed to a $ 600 + chamber machine ) , the steaks may be pulled together as it sucks out the air ; press your finger down on the plastic between them to keep them apart . Separate steaks with freezer , parchment , or waxed paper ( you can try plastic wrap , but they may freeze together anyway ... ) in one bag . You can stack them on top of each other , or put the immediately next to each other ( without the 1in space ) , or both . Freeze after sucking air out . There is a disadvantage to stacking things thicker to freeze ( as in the last suggestion ) : generally speaking , the faster you freeze something , the more quality is retained . And of course the thicker it is , the longer it takes to freeze through . If you 're cutting from rolls , remember that each time you open and re-seal the bag , you 're going to cut off an inch or so of plastic , depending on your vacuum machine . Cut the bag big enough to accommodate this .
The oil will always separate from the rest of the product . ( home made or natural/bio peanut butter will behave the same way ) When that happens , just spend some time and elbow grease to mix it back together again . if the tahini was stored in the fridge , it might take longer because everything will be harder . Just leave it on the counter for a while until it gets to room temperature before mixing it back together . ( after googling ) People suggest to keep the jar upside down and when you want to use it , just put it back straight and let it stand for a while , it will mix itself ( a little bit ) together again .
You are correct : Cupcakes are just regular sponge cakes cooked in approximately cup-sized tins .
For your average mixing task , pretty much any bowl ( of the right size , shape ) will do . Also , " plastic " is n't one material , it 's a bunch of different materials . For example , some advantages of polypropylene bowls do not apply to melamine formaldehyde bowls , but both are plastic . So , here are some advantages of a polypropylene ( PP ) bowl over a metal bowl : microwave safe high elasticity ( can be bent , and will go back to its original shape . E.g. , if you drop your PP bowl , it wo n't dent ) extremely acid-resistant extremely resistant to other chemical attacks ( e.g. , will not corrode ) plastic bowls are often made in a mold , so can be cheaply made in a variety of shapes . You can get bowls with nice pouring spouts , etc. because of this . Of course , they have disadvantages too : fats stick , almost impossible to remove all traces ( a problem when beating egg whites ) ca n't be used over a pot as a double-boiler ca n't hold very hot things ( e.g. , you can put hot oil in a metal bowl , but PP would melt . Different plastics have different melting points , some ca n't even hold boiling water . You never have to worry with stainless . ) ca n't be used in the oven And there are things which are just different , like metal conducts heat better ( so it works better when cooling in an ice bath , but also you 're much more likely to get burnt on it ) , metal is denser ( PP floats , metal does n't ) . If you get metal bowls , except for a few applications where copper is nice ( those egg whites , again ) , you want stainless steel . Stainless is fairly resistant to acid and also corrosion ( plain steel is not ) . Note that stainless comes in different grades , which vary in their corrosion , rust , and acid resistance .
Two things . Use a sharper knife . Do n't chop , but slice gently . Let the weight of the blade do the cutting .
You are looking for what is called a <URL> which is essentially a bundle of herbs tied together for easy removal . There are three basic ways to do it : For herbs like thyme or sage which are on twigs , simply tie together the twigs with some food-safe string . Wrap the bundle of herbs in cheese cloth , and and tie together Use a tea ball type device to hold the herbs . When the dish is done cooking , you can then remove the herbs all in one go simply by removing the bouqet garni .
A flavoring extract is flavoring disolved in alcohol , while a flavoring emulsion is flavoring suspended in water with an emulsifier . Citrus oils like lemon have a stronger flavor when placed in an emulsion than an extract , and that is why they often come that way . ( <URL> ) As far as uses go , bakery emulsions keep the incorporated flavors more stable while your mixture changes temperature , and they combine more easily with other emulsions ( butter , sugar , egg for example ) than extracts do . <URL> those characteristics make them especially useful for pastry cremes .
Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy . The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much . The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes , above this number it will be sticky . Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready , so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it wo n't stick .
It not huge , it 's just the difference from freezer to room temperature you are worrying about E.g. -20 & deg ; C to 20 & deg ; C , is A 40 & deg ; C shift . The shift was going to be 20 & deg ; C to 100 + & deg ; C anyway . There is no physical reasons why this would be anymore stressful From room temperature you are raising it 80 & deg ; C , from frozen you are raising it 120 & deg ; C. Not a problem in the normal temperature range for glass The freezing temperature of water ( most common item in food ) has no relation to the freezing temperature of glass etc Pyrex and other glasses can be damaged if one part of them is instantly heated or cooled by a 100 & deg ; C or so
Beetroots do have an earthy smell , that 's normal and can get stronger if you just cook them in water . I can think of two approaches to work with this : Try roasting them in an oven ( optional : wrapped in some aluminum foil ) until tender . They will develop a sweetness whith perhaps some earthy undertones . Add an acidic component like vinager or lemon juice to the cooked beets and let rest for a few hours ( or pickle them ) . But you might consider how/where the beets were grown : If the " soil " smell is too strong , it might be because there was too much fertilizer or manure in the soil , which beets tend to absorb .
The best way I 've found so far ( for juicing ) is to just thoroughly squeeze the pieces between thumb and forefinger over the flat part of the juicer chute so the juice flows down the chute and the seeds pop out for removal .
Do n't put the shrimp etc in the sauce in the first place and cook it separately , that way you do n't have to take it out . Then just top your pasta with it and if say you are cooking meatballs and want a little sauce on them mix a little sauce in with your meatballs and then put them on top . If you want that mixed in with the pasta look then do the same thing I said above and mix the pasta in your individual serving bowls or plates if you are using one after you have dressed your pasta . Your just not going to get an even distribution with random variables , all you can do is pick and count if you want everything evens .
A microwave-safe container should n't be heated significantly by the microwave ( only by conduction from the food it contains ) . So , it should be fine , so long as the food is , and as long as the food does n't exceed its allowable temperature . You can test fairly easily -- put the container , partially filled with some water , in the microwave for a few minutes . Does the container heat up , possibly more so than the water -- especially where its not in contact with the water ? If so , I 'd be reluctant to use it in the microwave for that long . Some containers are microwave safe , but only for heating to maybe 160 ° F or so . A common example is LDPE ( often used for plastic wrap ) . Some ca n't take boiling for more than a short time ( e.g. , HDPE ) . Polypropylene should be fine , even with boiling . Go any hotter ( e.g. , filled with oil , which is probably insane ) and most will fail . If you 're lucky , the container will have a resin ID code on it , LDPE is # 4 , HDPE is # 2 , polypropylene is # 5 . Your microwave may not be fine with 40 minutes of strait microwaving , or with the steam buildup . You should probably check its manual . I assume also you 've read Jay 's comment about converting recipes , and that you 're doing something where 40 minutes wo n't result in charcoal .
OK - for my bona fides , I 'm a microbiologist and have made a career of quality control in food processing including meat processing so I know what I am talking about . There are two kinds of smoked pork chops , cold smoked and hot smoked . Cold smoked pork chops are n't heat processed , so they are n't cooked . They have the redder color and the more resilient , moister feel of raw meat . You are only apt to run into them in specialty meat markets or at small local butchers . These need to be cooked to 145F to be safe and palatable to eat . What you find in the grocery store and most meat markets is almost always hot smoked . It is heated during the smoking process and is fully cooked , just like a smoked ham . It looks and feels to the touch liked cooked meat . That sounds like what you have . If you are n't sure ask the butcher or meat department manager . They should know . If they do n't , buy your meat elsewhere . Having said all that , it is common to find the smoked pork chops in the meat case right alongside the raw pork . Being exposed to raw meat undoes the kill step the heat of cooking does to foodbourne microorganisms . Salmonella , e.coli and other organisms are easily transferred from utensils , trays and workers hands back onto the cooked meat . This could be done in the meat case , or in wrapped product it could happen in the back room where the chops are cut up and wrapped . Organisms that find their way onto the meat quickly grow and spread over the meat 's surface and may find their way into the interior of the cut through any break in its surface . Unless you are certain it has been factory wrapped , sealed and labelled rather than in the store you should treat it as raw meat and heat it to 145F before serving . At the least be sure the surface of the meat has been seared before serving . I just do n't trust the expertise and commitment to providing safe foods you are apt to find in a grocery store or butcher shop . On the other hand , if it looks like it came from a factory already sealed in plastic wrap I would feel certain it was processed on a line that only processes cooked meat and is promptly sealed . I would have no qualms about eating it cold right out of the package .
Assuming the rind chunks are fairly large , you could use a colander with fairly large holes or a metal sieve .
What Rincewind42 says about caramelization is true in itself , but it does n't apply here . Cotton candy is made from sugar syrup at the hard ball stage ( 130 ° C ) , so too cold for caramelization . Caramelization only starts occuring at 160 ° C and above . In fact , caramel has a very different texture from sugar , so it is practically impossible to spin cotton out of it . It makes spidery , unendly elastic strands , unlike the brittle cotton candy strands . Plus , it is visibly brown , and tastes very different from sugar , so you 'd notice it when eating the cotton candy . The flavor of cotton candy is indeed sugar ( unless it has had something else added ) . But taste is not the same thing as flavor . Things taste different to us based on texture , aroma , color and food name . ( I once read about a study made with unusually colored puddings . People who had eaten cherry pudding with yellow coloring were sure they are eating banana or lemon , and they were convinced the pink vanilla pudding was strawberry ) . So it is entirely possible that a gelato customer who eats a gelato called " cotton candy " , has lots of sugar and is painted a pastel color will perceive it as having a different taste from non-flavored ice cream which has lots of sugar , but not the color or the name , especially if the texture of the " cotton candy " flavor is tweaked a bit .
For hard , chemical-resistant surfaces such as marble , bleach or peroxide cleaners will help . On things like counters , pots and pans , a Magic Eraser will often take off the stain . Sometimes a harsher abrasive like Comet or Barkeep 's Friend will be needed . Softer or porous materials , including cloth and many plastics often CAN NOT BE UNSTAINED . In my kitchen we treat turmeric like a dangerous chemical -- isolate , contain , and plan ahead to limit exposure . It 's just that destructive . You might as well tie-dye or bleach white any clothing you get turmeric on ; it India it is used as a dye for saris because it will semi-permanently tint cloth . You can brush off the dry powder harmessly , but when it is moistened and allowed to sit for a moment , the color is pretty much permanent . Edit : UV + peroxide : I saw a patent for removing turmeric stains from upholstery using UV light and hydrogen peroxide . You might try soaking fabrics in peroxide or Oxyclean ( which uses peroxide ) and leaving then out in the sun . Ca n't hurt right ? Edit : strategies to manage turmeric without making a mess Plan ahead where you 'll use it , and which utensils and vessels will hold it , so you do n't mess up anything you do n't need to . Re-use already turmeric-stained items so you do n't wreck anything new Mortars and pestles , tupperware , wooden and soft plastic utensils are a lost cause . At least the stain is purely cosmetic ? ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS wear an apron . Keep spilt powder dry ( it wo n't stain ) and brush it off with a paper towel into the garbage . Brushing away promptly keeps you from inadvertently spilling liquid on it , or wiping it with a wet towel during cleanup . That is , unless you want a neon-green counter and towel ? Whenever you spill something containing turmeric , promptly wipe it off , to reduce staining . Hard ceramic and porcelain are immune to staining unless the surface is rough . Try to use these for storage . Glass will stain . Stainless steel is resistant but not immune . With these strategies , I find I can use turmeric regularly without problems .
Scarface was the nickname of the early 20th century American organized crime boss , Al Capone . He was slashed in the face while working at a New York City nightclub . The injury left a scar that led to the nickname . <URL> Capone 's parents immigrated from Italy , and it is said that he enjoyed eating Italian foods . The notoriety and name-recognition of Al Capone ( a.k.a. Scarface ) has resulted in it being chosen , in one form or another , as the name for many restaurants and pizza parlors over the years . Naming a dish " Scarface Pasta " is but a natural extension of that line of marketing . It is however , merely someone 's suggestion of what Al Capone might have ordered -- something that sounds cute on a menu , but may actually be nothing more than spaghetti with sauce .
You ca n't . This is caused by an irreversible chemical reaction . The bitterness is there to stay . If it is just a tad too much for you , you can try diluting : make more pudding and mix . But if it is the strong bitterness I know from mixing mix and fruit enzymes , that wo n't help either .
end question
start question
Do all blenders have the problem of food sticking to the side away from the spinning blades ?
The ratio of food to size of container will make a large difference as well as the the texture of the item being blended . This has been a problem for me with traditional blenders . I 've found that an immersion ( stick ) blender helps tremendously with this in two specific ways : First , with a stick blender , you are basically holding the blade and can move it around , preventing food from separating and sticking to the sides . Second , most immersion blenders come with small bowl accessories that in essence give you a " mini blender " . Since the bowl is smaller in size , food separating and sticking to the side is n't as much of an issue . Immersion blenders are pretty cheap -- you can get one for as little as $ 20 . I have the Braun model . It 's amazing but I think they stopped making it . The best one on the market now is the KitchenAid . I use mine for hummus , soups and pestos . It 's without a doubt one of the most useful tools in my kitchen .
Simply put , you have to stir them the first three/four minutes of cooking . Be sure to boil them in enough water ( at least 1 liter per 100 grams ) . In addition to that be sure to buy some good quality pasta . From my knowledge pasta tends to stick when the wheat used is of poor quality . A good pasta should not be transparent when seen in direct sunlight , but it should be of a nice pale yellow color and opaque . Good Italian pasta brands that you can find outside of Italy are De Cecco ( which I fear might be quite expensive , and probably not so easy to find ) , or Barilla ( easier to find ) . Both of them has cooking instructions printed on the package . You might want to cook them for 2-3 minutes less than what 's printed , then eventually cook them the remaining couple of minutes together with your sauce .
One method I found over time : Chop it into tiny pieces and stir fry it with bacon and onions ( also chopped up ) . Once that 's soft , leave it to cool , then mix it in meatballs in a 50:50 ratio . If some eggs and breadcrumbs are added a fine meatball is made that tastes a bit sweeter and veggy and is healthier . :)
Any knife that has a symetrical blade profile should be ambidexterous in use . Santoku and chef knives typically come with a symmetrical profile1 , so you should be able to get a decent choice , whichever of the types you finally choose . Whether you chose a V-shaped or double-bevel , a hollow cut or a convex blade is ultimately up to you , your intended uses and your honing skills . Some knifes feature an asymmetrical edge , but as these are often intended for special uses and for left - or righthanded use ( depending on the orientation of the sides ) , a good manufacturer should point this out . If in doubt , either ask your sales person or simply look closely at the blade . Another option is laying the blade flat on the table ( or on a wooden block , if the hilt gets in the way ) and pressing along the cutting edge . The angle of the sharp edge will " lift " the spine . If it behaves the same way on both sides , you should be fine , whichever is your dominant hand . And a big thanks to a ESultanik below who reminded me : Knife handles are not necessarily designed ambidexterously , even if the blade is . In fact , I suggest " trying on " every knife you are willing to spend more than a few dollars on - it should feel safe and comfortable and fit your hand size and grip well . A handle that does n't fit your hand is uncomfortable at best , dangerous at worst . 1 <URL> discusses various styles , including pictures .
For vegetable knives , the main advantage of the front-side single bevel is that it 's easier to make super-thin cuts . For example , a test of knife skill involves paring daikon radish to remove the peel , then continuing to cut to make a long continuous paper-thin strip , longer than you would be able to make if you just sliced it . See , for example , <URL> People who have mastered this skill can also make remarkably fast matchstick cuts after making the long piece , and the lack of back bevel may reduce the amount of food that sticks to the knife . Some of these single-bevel knives that features a slightly concave backside ( urasuki ) , which may also reduce the amount of adherence of food to the knife . For crab knives , the honing is on the opposite side to the hand ( the back of the knife ) , which may reduce the amount of shell fragments that could embed themselves into the meat , and probably allows the meat to cut more cleanly . In practice , though , most Japanese households use dual-beveled knives . Single-bevel is more common in professional kitchens , especially in the Kansai area where fancy cutting techniques are used in presentation to a greater extent than in Tokyo or north Japan . Although I have a nice nakiri knife and a cheap santoku , both are dual-beveled . Knives meant for cutting regular fish or meat are usually , but not always , dual-beveled , the exception again mostly being for professionals . ( I think yanagiba and sushi knives are usually single-bevel , but are again mostly used in professional kitchens and almost never at home ) . I thought sobakiri and udonkiri were typically single-bevel to help push the cut noodles away , but more recently I am less sure that the single-bevel is as common as I had previously thought for soba or udon knives . The Japanese wikipedia entry for usuba knives suggests that the single-bevel edge is more durable , so , if true , that would be an advantage in high volume restaurant use . In my experience a thin , well sharpened Japanese blade may chip more easily than a thicker blade , so that resonates with me , even though I 'm not 100 % sure the notion that a single bevel is more durable is more than received wisdom . With practice , I think you can get slightly more precision cuts with a single bevel than with dual-bevel knives , however , I do n't think they are as easy to use for cooks with average knife skills .
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
I have done no testing of this at all but I was surprised to find <URL> that they recommend trying a spoon full ( or cube of ) sugar . Perhaps the easiest way of calming down a flaming mouth is by sucking on a sugar cube or holding a teaspoon of sugar in your mouth . This helps by absorbing the spicy oil that is coating your mouth , as well as giving you a different , strong taste to concentrate on . A bit of mind-trickery and science combined ! Other things I 've eaten in the past include starches , like bread or rice . Here 's a fun infographic and most of the items on it are vegan : <URL> from <URL>
I 'm not a chemist so I 'll let wikipedia do it for me : <URL> As far as it 's culinary effects in crusts - I have seen unreliable reference to the flour oxidizing and developing a off color . I have never seen this personally and I am skeptical of it . Pie crusts can be made just fine without vinegar . Vinegar does significantly tenderize the crust as well as add an interesting flavor .
In the type of recipe you reference , all of which are quick breads , the result is supposed to be tender , not chewy . Wheat flour has proteins in it , which if agitated in the presence of water , will combine to form a new protein , gluten , which is very chewy . Sometimes , this is desirable as in yeast raised bread , where the gluten forms the structure of the bread , and gives it its bite and chewiness . In fact , this is why ( most ) yeast raised breads are kneaded . Gluten development is not desirable in tender quick breads , like cornbread or banana bread . Biscuits are a type of quick bread where the lumps of butter will promote flakiness , but you still want a tender crumb . The flour and the liquids are combined as quickly as possible , with the least reasonably possible agitation , to minimize the development of gluten , and thus maximize tenderness . The idea of leaving some lumps is to help prevent over mixing , and thus toughening the product . Even if there are some small lumps of unmixed flour , the liquid from the batter will penetrate them in a few minutes during baking , and they will not be a factor in the final product .
It will firm up a little bit during chilling , but not much . It is certainly supposed to be firm enough to keep its shape on its own when taken out . If you have baked creme caramel or cheesecake , then try to get it to a similar consistency as these . If you have n't , you may want to use a roast thermometer . The final temperature ( assuming a traditional flan without starch or flour ) should fall in the 85-90 Celsius range .
To get the sugar caramelized to that perfect dark brown , I start the sugar on the stove top and finish in the oven . I start by adding a bit of water and some corn syrup ( the fructose makes the brown more intense , but one can skip it ) to the sugar and keep it on a medium burner until it reaches the first caramel stage , at 155 & deg ; C/311 & deg ; F . As Michael notes , the sugar can go very fast from this stage to burnt . To avoid this , I place the pan in an oven that has been pre-heated to 180 & deg ; C/356 & deg ; F , just above the dark caramel stage . Checking every two minutes with an infrared thermometer ( more often as it gets closer to 177 & deg ; C/350 & deg ; F ) , it 's easy to get the sugar to the right temperature . <URL>
This is a little hard to do without making an epic mess . First , lay out a big piece of parchment or wax paper to catch the sprinkles that you are about to throw everywhere . Place your cake on it 's platter over the parchment paper and tilt it so that you can apply sprinkles to the uppermost side . Do n't tilt it so far that it slides off ! Apply the sprinkles with your free hand , pressing them gently into the frosting ( some suggest wearing a glove , I do n't ) . Turn , and repeat . Periodically collect all your sprinkles from the parchment paper .
Most freezers are frost-free , which means that they occasionally cycle above freezing to prevent formation of frost on the walls of the freezer . This makes them easier to maintain but it shortens the storage longevity of the food . This makes products stored in them vulnerable to freezer burn , which is a loss of moisture . It can also cause ice and IQF products like frozen fruits or vegetables to solidify into a single mass . If you have ice cube trays , you may even notice them becoming empty after a few months of sitting unused . Freezer burn is a loss of quality , though , not a health issue . The food is n't spoiling . If you have a " deep freeze " or a non frost-free freezer that you only access occasionally , you can certainly keep foods for nearly indefinite periods of time without worrying as much about freezer burn . You can also reduce the likelihood of freezer burn by following better freezer practices . Resources available <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
It 's not safe to assume that food wo n't cause a blockage if there are other processes at work . I 've known multiple people who have had tree roots manage to break into their sewer pipes . ( odds are , there was a leak of water , the roots went towards it , and then opened the pipe up further ) . If the drain is already restricted , larger particles can make the situation problematic . In my case , when the state highway was installing sidewalks and curbs on my street , their contractors ended up crushing sewer lines along our side of the street . I know that at least four of us were affected , as we started having issues with blockages and basements getting flooded by sewage ... but it took a couple of weeks for other matter to start filling in the crevices until we reached a complete blockage . Even in the case where you do n't already have an obstruction in your pipes , garbage disposals are quite inefficient as a way of disposal ; you 're wasting clean water in the process , and you 're putting extra work on the sewage treatment plants . Sewage treatment plant are designed to handle a specific volume of water and waste , and in cases of periods above their capacity , they may have to divert untreated water and hope that dilution will be sufficient . This means increased nutrient loads in your waterways , which can cause algae blooms and kill fish populations . ( although the unprocessed food is n't as bad as the other stuff that 's typically in wastewater ) . Most carbon digestion is an aerobic process , with the result of the breakdown of food in the wastewater using up the oxygen in the water . Discharging this low-ox water can also lead to deadzones . You also have to look at what a treatment facilities does with their extracted solids . In some newer facilities , there is biogas extraction , and the decomposition of the materials is used to power the facility . ( sometimes , with excess capacity sold off ) . In others , they have to truck it away ... sometimes it 's spread on fields as ferilizer . Other times it goes through a ' de-watering ' process ... either pumped to the bottom of a lagoon to digest or spread out into troughs to air-dry , then hauled to a landfill for disposal . Garbage disposals are convenient , and they 're useful for the occassional scraps ... but if you can , compost your food scraps . As for normal garbage vs. garbage disposal , there too many local factors -- if you 're in a water restricted area that does n't have a biogas system or sufficient capacity at the water treatment facility , normal trash is likely your best yet . If you 're in an area with lots of water , sufficient treatment capactiy and a biogas system , garbage disposal may be better . For more reading on some of the hidden costs of garbage disposals , see : <URL> <URL> <URL>
In On Food and Cooking ( 2004 edition ) , page 307 , Harold McGee indicates that the ... erm ... flatulent effects of sun chokes ( also called Jerusalem artichokes ) are due to complex fructose-based carbohydrates that are not digestible by humans . Long , slow cooking allows enzymes present in the fresh of the tuber will convert these fructose over time . McGee recommends 12-24 hours at 200 F / 93 C . He indicates that the result will be soft and sweet , akin to a vegetable aspic . Note that the ogliosacharrides in beans are a different class than the inulin in sunchoke ( galactose based versus fructose based , respectively ) , and evidently Beano is not effective sunchoke . Short of this extreme measure , your best defense against wind may be smaller portions of the vegetable .
I have n't tried this before but I found <URL> that shows you how . Cut into the mango , starting where the stem was and going around the long way , just in to the pit . Reach in with a spoon and scoop around the pit , separating one half of the mango from the pit . Then scoop the pit out of the other side .
Probably find it easier to crack a raw egg and then peel the membrane from inside . Maybe use some tweezers to get started .
even the greatest knife masters will forget every once in a while to clean with the edge in the opposite direction No , they wo n't , not after cutting themselves a couple of times . It 's natural to cut yourself while cutting food , occasionally , but I have never cut myself while slipping food from the blade . Always keep the edge away from you , place the side of your finger against the flat of the blade keeping it absolutely rigid and straight , and run your finger down the blade . It 's that simple . Using the side of your finger reduces the chance of you curling it around the cutting edge .
Assuming the rind chunks are fairly large , you could use a colander with fairly large holes or a metal sieve .
Two things control the " sharpness " of onions : variety and age . While certain varieties of onions are sharper than others ( i.e. Reds , walla-walls and vidalias are sweeter ) , any onion which has been in storage too long is going to be sulphurous and sharp-tasting . Since it 's January now , that 's going to be pretty much all onions . Since onion sharpness comes from sulphur compounds ( as I understand it ) , the best way to sweeten onions is to release some of them ahead of using the onion . The best way to do that is : Slice the onion thinly , crossways ( parallel to its equator rather than pole-to-pole ) . Place the sliced onion in a wide bowl , uncovered or very loosely covered , in the fridge or other cold place for at least an hour and up to a day . Additionally , either vinegar or salt -- or both -- will help accelerate removing sharpness from onion . For example , for a New Year 's Eve appetizer this year I sliced a red onion in to rings , tossed it with 1/2 tsp salt and 2 tsp red wine vinegar , and left it in an open bowl on the 45F porch for 5 hours . The result was intensely sweet red onion which could then be used as a canape topping . If you 're in a hurry , though , the only way to make the onion less sharp is to cook it .
end question
start question
Does a granite pestel need to be re-grooved ?
Just to clarify , the mortar is the bowl and the pestle is the rod . I have n't ever seen a grooved pestle , but the grooves on a mortar will wear off with use . The grooves are useful for holding seeds and the like in place while grinding , but they are not strictly necessary . Spices can actually be ground finer in a smooth mortar than they can with a grooved one since the particles ca n't get caught in the ridges , however the initial grinding and tapping may take slightly longer to get started as you chase things like seeds around the bowl a little . The rough surface of the granite alone is enough , just adjust your technique as it wears more .
Sugar does not cause sour food to be any less acidic . The difference is purely one of perception ; we are wired by evolution to prefer sweet tastes and tend to perceive less of other tastes when a high sugar concentration is present . Sugar does not ionize - it is not basic or acidic . Acidity itself is a chemical property , and only a base ( such as baking soda or trisodium citrate ) can actually neutralize it . Two other compounds - <URL> and <URL> - actually alter our mouth chemistry and really do cause sour foods to taste sweet , without actually sweetening the food itself . But plain sugar does nothing at all - there is no chemical reaction happening . It 's just masking other tastes , not neutralizing them . The reason sugar does n't mask bitterness as effectively as sourness is that sweet and sour have roughly similar taste thresholds , while most humans are extremely sensitive to bitter tastes . We can detect quinine ( the reference solute for bitterness ) in solution at 0.5 ppm , whereas sucrose is n't normally detectable at levels below 5000 ppm . The amount of sugar needed to mask a significant bitter taste is simply not practical . If you want to neutralize a bitter taste , <URL> .
Doughs are docked to keep them from blowing up with steam while they bake . Thus - you only do it in applications that you do n't want blown up - like blind pie crusts . Puff pastry applications , for example , you usually do want to blow up so you will get a lot of light layers . If you are baking a pastry with a filling then the filling will keep this from happening . If you are baking blind , even with pie weights , you should dock because the weights might not weight evenly and you might still get a bubble .
When cooking in a slow cooker , you do not have to precook the leeks . I made a potato leek soup not too long ago that called for throwing everything in the pot and it came out great . The only thing I cooked before hand was the bacon , rendering out much of the fat and giving the nice golden brown and crispy bits to sprinkle on top . You CAN precook anything to help reduce the cook time and I always sear meat , but unless you are going to caramelize the leeks , you will not notice any difference in flavor or texture . As for the pureeing part , you want to be careful pureeing potatoes as they can turn into a nasty gluey mess . Just keep it to a minimum or use a food mill and you should be fine . I typically just use a potato masher and leave my soup a little on the chunky side .
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
Dry and even heat . There is still a difference , even with the same cut of meat and using a roasting rack to avoid roasting the cut in its juices : meat on a rotating skewer will be exposed to uniform heat . If you set the temperature of a home oven to 350 & deg ; F , the top of the roast will be exposed to that temperature , but the bottom , in line of sight to the heat source , will be much hotter . <URL> also cook the meat by convection and use the heating elements to create the outside crust . As the meat roasts , it becomes darker and absorbs more of the radiant heat from the roasting coils . So the outside ends up getting overcooked unless the roasting coils are carefully controlled , which is kind of hard to do . In a convection oven the temperature is constant around the roast .
If we 're talking about the same sub making restaurant , their flatbread contains the following ingredients : Enriched wheat flour ( flour , niacin , reduced iron , thiamine mononitrate , riboflavin , folic acid , malted barley flour , ascorbic acid ) , water , soybean oil , yeast ; contains 2 % or less of : nonfat dry milk , wheat gluten , salt , dough conditioners ( guar gum , Arabic gum , sodium stearoyl lactylate , enzymes ) , sugar , baking powder ( sodium acid pyrophosphate , sodium bicarbonate , corn starch , monocalcium phosphate ) , calcium propionate . I can see nothing in there that is n't in found in commercial soft white bread . It may well be a case of an overzealous legal department acting on the merest possibility of a hint of an idea that one ingredient may perhaps have the potential to maybe sometimes cause a problem if not cooked .
The exact reason depends on the particular ingredient and recipe . Some common ones include : General temperature . By having all of the ingredients at room temperature , the time it takes to bake the overall item ( s ) is easier to predict , leading to better , more consistent outcomes . Egg whites Egg whites form the protein network that creates the foam when whipped more easily at room temperature than they do cold , so will whip up more quickly and with more volume . Butter Butter is often desired slightly cooler than room temperature , for its plastic properties ; it incorporates air for the creaming method best slightly below most room temperatures . Otherwise , it is easier to spread or incorporate when warmer . Cream cheese Easier to mix with sugar or other ingredients at room temperature than when cold .
Higher temperatures , as a rule , mean less absorption of oil because the force of the steam trying to escape from the food pushes against the oil . Here is a link to a scholarly <URL> discussing the mechanics of fat absorption in the production of french fries ( complete with a table of results and diagrams ) . Interestingly , the author says that potatoes deep fried at more than ten degrees Celsius below the recommended temperature of 180-185C leads to 40 % higher fat uptake . I expect pan-frying leads to a much lower total uptake of fat , but I am sure the principle is the same . ( For a fun explanation of the mechanics , here 's Alton Brown in part II of the " Man Food " episode of <URL> . Enjoy . ) Now , your question was aimed at tofu ( or some spongy equivalent ) , and you asked about the effects of flour vs no flour . I could not find any articles with data on those exact elements of your question , but I suspect the answers will all derive from the same underlying principles . In other words , as a rule , cooking at low or medium heat means that the spongy and/or dredged product will tend to absorb more fat than at high heat . So , then , why do the recipes you have seen typically call for cooking tofu on " medium " heat ? My guess is that the recipe authors found that high heat makes the outside brown too much by the time the inside is " done " to the authors ' preferences -- and perhaps a little extra oil in the tofu makes it taste better . I am not sure , however , because most of the recipes I 've seen call for searing a crust onto the tofu using medium-high heat .
Depends on what you 're juicing . If you 're juicing something like a lemon/lime for lemon/limeade , you can just strategically slice and squeeze to get all but a couple mLs of juice . If you 're juicing something like an apple , you can cook it slightly and then use your food processor to make apple sauce , which can these be squeezed through a cheesecloth/pillowcase for a great deal of juice . For everything else ( practically at least ) , a manual juicer ( like <URL> ) will do just fine and cost a maybe a few bucks .
Open it up . If it 's soft and pale brown or darker inside too , it 's overripe and no longer good for eating straight ; however , it can be used in baking , banana bread , or smoothies . Once it 's black , the banana is garbage .
Foil is the way to go , combined with not too fierce a heat . You want to cook at about 160C until the centre of the pie is piping hot . To lower the chances of burning , portion the pie prior to reheating . That way the centre will get hot more quickly . Reheating more than once is generally not a good idea for safety reasons . You can however portion one night 's pie and keep the other in the fridge .
Yes , you should refrigerate it . Once a commercially bottled dressing is exposed to the air it is contaminated . Your homemade dressing is no different , and is likely more contaminated to begin with . The bottom line is that your dressing is food -- for humans , bacteria , and mold . It might not be the most hospitable of environments , but something is bound to find a home there . This process is arrested by refrigeration . Additionally , the garlic and basil will be going through a decay process that would be delayed by refrigeration . I 'm not sure what kind of olive oil you used , but I 've never had a vinaigrette turn solid in the refrigerator . If you 're in a rush I 'd suggest submerging , or running hot water over the bottle you store it in to quickly thaw it . You 'll shorten the shelf life , but if you 're using it frequently enough ( used all in less than a month ) that should n't matter .
Here in China , it is normal to reuse tea again and again . Typically the first cup from the tea is bitter . Chinese people commonly pour one cup and then throw it away and drink the second cup from the same leaves . Workers here can be seen with a large mug or jar of tea . When drunk , they top up the water again with hot ( but not boiling ) water . This will go on all day . The next day , however , they will not reuse the tea . My Chinese wife always tells me off if I reuse the previous days tea leaves . She says they are bad for you , though I have never had any problem myself .
all knives should be as sharp as you can get them , really . A dull knife is much more likely to cause an accident and cut you . The duller the knife the more pressure you need to apply in order to cut your food , leading to a higher chance of slipping and hurting yourself
<URL> simply means " absence of air . " Any liquid food environment basically counts as " anaerobic . " Yes , there may be some dissolved gases and exchange of air may happen near the surface of a liquid like water , but deeper in an undisturbed liquid , there 's often not enough air to prevent botulism growth . Some basically " solid " foods count too , if they are n't porous or are highly viscous ( but apparent solids ) and contain a high enough moisture content for bacteria to grow and spread . Any solids that are relatively moist and close-packed are also a particular problem ( think sausages ) . Whether all of these anaerobic environments will grow botulism then depends on various other factors . Botulism bacteria need food . They dislike acidity or excess salt ( think pickles ) or excess sugar ( think preserves ) or alcohol ( think fermentation ) , which are all traditional preservation methods . They need a certain level of water -- hence why drying was also a traditional preservation method and why solid hunks of stuff are less likely to cause problems ( unless they have sufficient internal moisture ) . Also , oil-rich environments lack water and may not grow botulism ( think mayonnaise ) but water-containing food within oil can ( think garlic or herbs in oil ) . All of these may be " anaerobic " environments , but the other factors can prevent botulism . Lastly , you have things like temperature -- chilling will slow botulism growth to a crawl and at low temperatures stop it completely . That 's the last traditional preservation method : chilling or freezing . Basically , anything under liquid left at room temperature for extended periods could conceivably grow botulism bacteria , assuming adequate " food " ( for the bacteria ) is present and none of the " preserving " environmental conditions mentioned above . Note the " extended periods " -- compared to other food poisoning bacteria , botulism grows more slowly and generally needs at least a couple days to grow to appreciable levels . And that 's why any type of canning recipes , etc. from official organizations are rigorously tested with exact measurements for preservation agents ( like acid , salt , etc. ) , unless they undergo a " pressure canning " step that heats the food hot enough to actually kill botulism spores ( which will survive boiling ) . Similarly , preserved meats ( especially processed ground ones ) that can remain at room temperature need to be treated with excessive salt for long periods ( sometimes acid as well ) , and often other agents ( like nitrates or nitrites ) to inhibit botulism growth . So yes , as Harold McGee mentions , stock left at room temperature for a few days can definitely grow botulism bacteria . A casserole left at room temperature for a few days could likely grow them too . Meat left at room temperature can definitely grow botulism , which is actually one of the biggest problems for actual cases of botulism after canning -- improperly preserved meat not kept under refrigeration . " Solid " meat and vegetables are less likely to have botulism bacteria far in their interior in the first place ( and often are n't " wet " enough for the bacteria to spread far ) , but if they become contaminated , they can be a problem too . For example : <URL> stored in foil and kept at room temperature have been known to be a cause , as have <URL> that were pricked before pickling ( thus inadvertently introducing botulism bacteria into the otherwise sterile yolk ) . To quote the <URL> : Botulinal toxin has been demonstrated in a considerable variety of foods , such as canned corn , peppers , green beans , soups , beets , asparagus , mushrooms , ripe olives , spinach , tuna fish , chicken and chicken livers and liver pate , and luncheon meats , ham , sausage , stuffed eggplant , lobster , and smoked and salted fish .
Technically you should be able to make almost anything you 'd be able to make in a metal dish , in a glass dish , but if the preparation calls for one then you ca n't simply substitute the other willy-nilly . It will likely require a good deal of fine-tuning . Glass is an insulator . It absorbs heat . That 's why solar panels are glass and why having a window in your home is not like having a gaping hole in your wall . As a consequence of this , ( a ) it will take a longer time for the dish itself to come up to oven temperature , ( b ) it will cook much more consistently and evenly , even if you have an oven that turns the element on and off to maintain temperature , and ( c ) it will continue cooking the food after you remove it from the oven , unless you remove the food from the baking dish immediately . What this means is that you generally have to extend the cooking time by at least 5-10 minutes ( more if you are baking at high temperatures ) when substituting glass bakeware for metal , to let the dish " pre-heat . " Except if you 're going to let the food cool inside the baking pan , in which case you might actually need to decrease the overall time to prevent burning afterward . It 's hard to be precise because it depends on what you 're cooking , how long you 're cooking it and at what temperature . To be honest , I probably would not use a glass dish for any recipe requiring caramelizing because caramelizing relies entirely on finely-controlled conduction ; ovens are less sensitive than a stove top but nevertheless , a few minutes too long and it 's burnt , a few minutes too short and it 's still solid . Better to choose a material that 's highly conductive for that , i.e. metal . Glass is best when you need slower , more even cooking , like casseroles .
I have cooked rice that was used for weighting a pie crust with fine results . I should have cooked some that was n't baked to see what the difference was , but in any case it turned out fine . Of course it may matter what temp the rice was baked at and for how long , and this could also affect the duration needed to cook the rice itself . I have also boiled beans that were previously baked , and they turned out fine , too .
That depends on the rice . I have done my own measurements in the past ( I hate volumetric measurements , ) and found : 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Brown rice ( medium grain ? ) weighed 142g . 1 full-to-the-brim rice cooker cup of dry SunRice Calrose rice ( medium grain ) weighed 150g . Both were Australian grown rice . The rice cooker cup 's top measurement is 160ml , but I always fill to the brim because ... I 'm too lazy to look at the notch . Why is the weight different ? Because different grains of rice can wedge together more efficiently ( less air pockets . ) The weight measurement for a long grain rice like Basmati would be different again . TL ; DR : buy a scale to be accurate .
Whipped vegetable shortening with powdered sugar . I can make it up a week in advance , probably even longer , and keep it in an airtight container in a cool place . And it has the advantage that it 's pure white ( if you use imitation vanilla extract , or lemon extract ) , so you can get vibrant colors on whatever you 're decorating . If you make too much , you can then make flowers and let them dry out , then store those for a year or more . Here 's the recipe I use , that I got from Jane who taught two of the cake decorating classes I took : Put all ingredients except the water into a mixer . Add 3/4 c. water , and slowly add more to make the consistancy of your choice . Mix on low speed 'til mixed , then on # 6 or 8 for 6 to 7 minutes . Consistency should be " creamy " -- like cream cheese when soft . Stiff icing should be creamy also .
end question
start question
Can I use fresh okara without cooking it ?
Its been a while but I found this thread as I was wondering the same thing ... Not much info on raw okara but I just googled raw soybeans ... " For human consumption , soybeans must be cooked with " wet " heat to destroy the trypsin inhibitors ( serine protease inhibitors ) . Raw soybeans , including the immature green form , are toxic to humans , swine , chickens , and in fact , all monogastric animals . " From wikipedia <URL>
All Recipies has an ' <URL> ' form , where you can specify ingredients that you want , and ones you do n't want . So searching for rhubarb without sugar got me 10 results ... thwith most using some other form of sweeteners . For the few that did n't : Rhubarb Wild Rice Pilaf ( 2 cups rhubarb , 2 TB honey ) Rhubarb Salsa ( 2c . rhubarb , 2 TB honey ) Rhubarb and Buckwheat ( not sure what this is ; 1/2 c. rhubarb , 1 tsp honey ) Rhubarb Rumble Pie ( not sure on sugar ratio ... comes from pudding &amp; jello mixes ) Rhubarb Smoothie ( not sure on sugar ration ... comes from fruit and vanilla yogurt )
Fish sauce ! I think the clam juice is probably already a substitute for fish sauce anyway , so it should make a very good substitute . ( If you look up recipes for Thai beef salad you 'll find tons of things with fish sauce , and probably not much with clam juice . ) You probably want to use less , though , maybe starting with 2-4 tablespoons , though I 've seen recipes using more . It should be fine for the dietary restriction too ; it 's just made with anchovies , not an unknown blend of seafood , but of course check the label just in case .
Your local hardware store or DIY shop will likely have an assortment of dust masks you could try . The simplest ones would be cheap and very quick to put on and remove , and should help . It seems a little over the top to have to put on a mask for using pepper , but perhaps you 're extra sensitive and it 's just something you 'll have to deal with . Do you have any reaction at all from eating things with lots of black pepper ? Finally , you might look at how you 're physically dispensing the pepper . If you 're shaking it from a container you 're likely to stir up a small cloud of fine pepper dust . If you 're not already doing so , consider trying to use a tiny measuring spoon or even the wrong end of a regular spoon to scoop a little pepper out of the container directly and add it to your food -- less sprinkling/shaking , less irritant in the air .
I think some sort of mechanical aid to macerate the food is necessary for your project . Depending on what dish you attempt , there are few options . A ricer ( or food mill , depending on who you buy from ) is a manual device ( non-electric ) that you might run cooked potatoes or parsnips through . Many people do mashed potatoes this way . Depending how cooked your parsnips get , a hand blender ( or immersion blender , stick blender ) may work . However , all of this requires you to shell out some cash for a device . I 'm not sure , from your post , if that 's an option . If you 're going for ultra-smooth texture for a bisque or other soup , it might be worth it to get one of the small-bowl food processors ( just work in batches ) . Good luck !
Vinegar would n't be harmful . The resulting reaction would create a ferrous salt which would be easily washed away . However , it was probably the vinegar and other acids in your food that cause the rust in the first place . Steel items stored in a acidic environment rust faster than those in plain water . Washing and storing dry is the best way to prevent rust .
It 's interesting that this is your experience , since " common knowledge " is the white pepper is milder than black . White pepper is the dried ripe fruit of the pepper Piper Nigrum , and the black is the unripe , cured and dried fruit . Black is usually hotter than white , but generally they are considered to be interchangeable , with the white being used in sauces and in cream dishes for a better look ( no black specks ) . Since this pepper is so strong for some reason , I would advise that you only use it in dishes that rely on the pepper flavor to the exclusion of others , say steak au poivre , or pepper pot , or salt and pepper scallops . Other than that you can cut back on the amount or grind it now and let it sit around for a while ... pepper has its strongest , best flavor when freshly ground ; it kills me to suggest that , but I 'm trying to answer your question . If it were mine , I would try to figure out a dish that this pepper would truly enhance , as I suggested .
Lemon is used as a flavoring , not as a cooking liquid , it 's not going to keep the fish moist . The secret of having moist fish is the same as having moist beef , chicken or any meat or poultry : do n't overcook it . Cooking releases moisture from the flesh , so cooking it well is all about timing - getting it cooked enough to have the internal temperature and consistency you want and no more as every extra second means more moisture lost . Fish is especially sensitive to timing , but with a bit of practice anyone can cook fish well . Fish , meat or poultry will have a juicy mouth feel when there is enough moisture stored in the flesh after cooking . Overcooked fish in a pool of sauce will still have a dry mouth feel , whereas perfectly cooked fish with no sauce at all will have a moist mouth feel . As for what to cook cod with as a replacement for lemon the answer is nothing . Fish has enough moisture to begin with , and when baking you do n't need to assist heat transfer . Lemon is simply a flavoring , so replace it with flavoring you like . This could be browned butter ( or just a bit of butter ) if you want richness , or herbs if you like , or you could just season it with salt and pepper . If you want to get more fancy you could seal it up in parchment paper or foil ( oil the foil so it does n't stick ) with a tiny bit of water or butter and some herbs and bake it that way , it seals in the moisture and creates a sauce - delicious !
I understand the intent of the advice to always keep meat and vegetable preparation tools and areas separate is to establish a habit , to avoid the possibility of cross contamination in cases where you are not going to be cooking the vegetables as much or at all ; and similarly in a catering environment to be able to visibly demonstrate that working practices are such that cross contamination can not occur .
The way you 've described is precisely how I melt chocolate . If you have a double boiler , that 's even better , but a bowl on top of a pot is fine too . I can only think of two things that might be affecting the quality of your end result : Is the bowl big enough ? The melting bowl should be larger than the pot if possible ; you want the steam to be forced under and around it . Is the water temperature reasonable ? You want it to be at a simmer . If it 's rapidly boiling , the heat is too high . As long as you keep those two things in mind , your chocolate should melt fine ! Edit : Thought of one other thing : It 's possible that the steam is actually rising above the bowl , then hitting something ( like your range ) , condensing and then falling back into the bowl as water . You should n't even be getting much steam with this method , but just in case , turn your fan on , to make sure you are n't getting any condensation .
I find it amusing that your range warns you the cooking ring will work as intended . It 's supposed to be heat trap , and focus heat on the bottom of the wok . That said , they are also correct that it may discolor the burner grate . I ca n't really say what your grates are made from , and many cooking materials discolor at high temperatures . I think the main idea behind this paragraph in your manual is to save them from warranty replacements for discolored grates . I also find it highly suspect that a wok could damage the burner itself . They are usually ceramic , in direct contact with open flame , and any pan traps heat to some degree . Burners get HOT and have to be able to take it . Although the little decorative cap on the burner might discolor as well .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
Coconut oil has a low smoke point ( 177-204C depending on processing ) . Ghee has a smoke point of 252C . The effect of this is that it will be quite hard to stop the oil burning . But that 's not to say it would be impossible - softening onions and garlic in butter or olive oil is common , and they have lower smoke points still . But the texture from frying at a lower temperature will be quite different . It may also affect the flavour of your spices . In addition , the coconut oil will change the character of your curry significantly . That may not be a bad thing . ( all figures from <URL> )
Most of the ice creams I 've made have been custard-based , meaning that egg yolks are cooked together with cream and sugar . The mixture is chilled and then churned . For a custard-style ice cream recipe including cocoa powder , the cocoa would likely be dissolved during the cooking step . If you are following a no-cook recipe that includes cocoa powder , I would at least use a whisk to mix the cocoa in as thoroughly as possible . However , dissolving the cocoa in a hot liquid would likely result in a smoother ice cream . Not sure what kind of recipe you are following , but you could probably heat the milk/cream , stir in the cocoa powder to dissolve , then chill the mixture before churning it .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
Yes , you can save it and add it to soups such as Minestrone for additional flavor . Once the soup is done , remove and discard the rind . For extended storage , keep it in a bag in the freezer until you have need for it .
The problem with using the non-ground pearls is that they do n't always fully dissolve . <URL> they can be pulverized or ground in a grinder or by mortar and pestle and used similarly to the starch . However , there are pearls which are instant and those that are not . With instant tapioca you can substitute 1:1 , with regular tapioca pearls , pulverized , it would be 2:1 . As for , they are good as a thickening agent assuming that you are okay with little gelatinous balls in whatever you are making . Rice and tapioca puddings spring to mind ; there are uses of it in curries and stews for its thickening prowess ; also it can be used as a gluten free thickening agent in place of flour . If you run out of corn starch or arrow root you can also turn to the pulverized stuff . Same rules apply ; <URL> . However , do not bring to a boil or you will end up over-cooking the starch .
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
You can use small amounts of cheddar mixed with the other cheeses . But you 'd be disappointed in the results if you tried to use it as the main or only cheese on the pizza . Cheddar cheese does n't tolerate sustained , high heat as well as some other cheeses . It can scorch , which tastes and smells bad , and/or the fats can separate from the solids as a yellowish oil . The sharper the cheese is , the less well it will tolerate heat .
You certainly can . There are a few things to consider before popping down to the beach and grabbing a bucket . Some areas of the sea are highly contaminated with toxins . Look for some sort of signage to give you a hint , OR look for fishermen . If they feel safe with the fish they are catching I 'd be inclined to think the water was also fine . Sea water is , as you know , very VERY salty . On average around 35g per Liter . So you may benefit from using half tap and half sea water . Be sure to boil the water for a few minutes before adding any food , just to be sure any harmful " biological organisms that might contaminate the water " . Another consideration , you may be interested in , would be harvesting your own salt from the sea water . That way you have more control over the amount penetrating your food/blood stream .
end question
start question
How to avoid getting the pizza all watery ?
There are a number of factors that can contribute to a watery pizza : Cheese If you think the cheese is the culprit , you can try using a " low moisture " mozzarella ( these are dry to the touch on the outside ) . If you are using a " fresh " mozzarella ( these usually are sold in a brine ) , e.g. , classic mozzarella di bufala or mozzarella fior di latte , I recommend slicing the cheese as opposed to grating the cheese . The idea is that slicing the cheese will produce less surface area , and thereby reduce the amount of water that leeches out . Also , I recommend dabbing the cheese slices with a kitchen towel to remove any surface moisture . If you use this method , it will also help to cut the cheese in very thin slices , since that will release more moisture before it touches the pizza and it will also reduce the amount of cooking time . Tomato Sauce I recommend making the sauce yourself . As opposed to simmering the tomatoes/sauce on the stove for a long time , I prefer making a light tomato sauce that actually cooks on the pizza itself . I quickly purée the tomatoes ( canned are fine ) in a food processor and then let them strain in a fine mesh colander for 30 to 45 minutes , stirring occasionally . That gets rid of a lot of water ( the tomatoes lose about half of their volume ) . Throw in some minced garlic , chopped basil , and season and it is ready to go on the pizza . The Cooking Method Since my home oven does n't get as hot as a traditional pizza oven , I always " blind " cook my pizza without the cheese . In other words , I throw the dough , add the sauce , and then cook it with just the sauce for 4 or 5 minutes . This allows any extra moisture in the sauce to cook off . I then remove the pizza , add the cheese , and then broil it until the cheese is melted and browned . The Dough If the dough ends up becoming soggy , you can always compensate by making it a bit thicker .
I am an Indian and we make dough for everyday bread at home . It 's easy to knead dough ; you just have to take care while adding water . Do not add all the water you have , and add water slowly and steadily . For pizza dough I follow these steps : Mix yeast in warm water , add sugar to this water . Observe this mixture - as soon as you see bubbles , it is ready to be used for kneading dough . Add oil and salt to flour along with the yeast you have prepared . I use a spoon to keep mixing the flour and add spoonfuls of water , I keep some flour handy in case I have accidentally added too much water . I keep kneading the dough gently and add water or flour as needed . This does require some practice .
Avery 's " fattest turkey " advice is solid . I try to find ground turkey breast as opposed to ground turkey , no matter what I plan to do with it , because it 's easier to keep it from drying out in various recipes . As he said , ground turkey is so easy to overcook . You could always add some moisture by throwing some bacon grease into the mix , which I have done in the past with regular ( ground beef ) meatloaf to help make it as unhealthy and delicious as possible . This should effectively counter the health benefits of using ground turkey over ground beef , but boy is it good ! When my mom makes turkey burgers for the grill , she adds some italian dressing into the mix and swears that it helps keep the burgers from drying out fast . Have n't tried it myself , but I can see how the oil ( and water and vinegar , but moreso the oil ) would help . It will likely affect the taste of the dish ... but that is n't always a bad thing , as I find ground turkey to be significantly more " boring " tasting by itself than ground beef is by itself , probably because of the lack of fat .
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
Very , very few pizzas are made with butter . There is no way to make a universal statement , but butter is a rare . Olive oil would be more likely . Many pizza doughs are fat-free , including the traditional pizza di napoli ; New York style generally contains olive oil . It is rare for any traditional toppings to contain butter . Some individual cooks might saute vegetables in butter , but even then , olive oil more common . As for particular restaurant chains , you would need to check their nutrition information sites . Note : as Derobert points out , some deep dish Chicago style pizzas may contain butter in the crust .
My targets for the final dough : when I stretch it over my fist , once it has got to the size where it covers my whole fist , it starts to stretch under its own weight if the inside of the dough is exposed it will stick to hands/surface need to use semolina/cornmeal to transfer the pizza around contains lots of visible bubbles before stretching , with the dough having enough integrity to stretch the bubbles without losing them . can stretch it to be translucent without tearing too much ( preferably without tearing at all ) What I look for at different by stages : I have been making a lot of pizza dough over the last year , experimenting with different amounts of water and kneading techniques . In order to make a very thin base , ( on you can stretch so it is translucent ) but can still transfer into the oven I make a very wet ( 60 % hydration ) dough and either : No-Knead approach : use small amounts of yeast and salt . Just leave the dough for approx 18 hours . Then put in the fridge , I find it is best after 2 days in the fridge . Because the dough is cold you can easily handle it , although you might need to let it warm up a bit before you can do anything with it . What I am aiming for is that when I stretch it over my fist , once it has got to the size where it covers my whole fist , it starts to stretch under its own weight . I expect to see a lot of bubbles , up to 0.5 cm in diameter but most smaller , in the dough , but not to be able to pour it out . I will have to scrape it out of the bowl using a wet spatula . and will have to use a light dusting of flour ( not too much ) to stop it sticking to the surface or my hands . I sometimes let it rise again after shaping ( need to at least let it relax for a few minutes ) and usually have to add more flour to my hands to do the stretch . Try to use as little extra flour as you can . I usually have to only dust the dough once and lightly before stretching it . If you have to use any more it might be too wet or not have enough gluten development . Hand Knead approach : using more yeast and salt . When I first turn the dough out to knead I do not expect to be able to handle it , it is to sticky and runny . I use tools to fold it a few times . You will probably need some flour to do this , but try not to use too much . After several folds the dough comes together enough for me to lightly cover it in flour I " roll knead " - which is rolling and stretching it , but not bringing the wet inside to the surface . If you start to fold or tear the dough it will stick to your hands and the surface , if that happens you have to put more flour on which will reduce the hydration of your dough so avoid it . You will have to work it for quite a while . Try to get your body weight applied to the dough as your roll it . What I am aiming for is a dough which you can pick up without your fingers just going into it and that springs back when you deform it ; but if you tear it or open it up the inside will immediately stick to your hands and the surface . When I get this I stop kneading . I usually rise it for 80 mins but it depends on the temperature . After this rise , I will divide it and shape it into balls . I expect to not be able to easily rip the dough apart due to its wetness . It should contain quite a bit of air , and some largeish bubbles which I try not to knock back too much . I have to use a wet spatula to divide it , and then use a small amount of flour on the outside to form a smooth surfaced ball . Then I cover it and rise it again for 20mins . The outside will be smooth with some bubbles visible and due to the flour dry enough to handle . The inside will be too wet to handle without adding more flour . After this second rise I put a bit of flour on my hands and stretch it over my fist , it should behave pretty much the same as the no-knead version at this stage .
I suggest using a brine . Lots of brining details can be found in the answers to this question : <URL> Alton Brown has a really great recipe for <URL> . You can watch the <URL> on YouTube in which he covers brining turkey . I also suggest reading <URL> ( PDF ) from Cook 's Illustrated .
Storing Tea You tea should never become bitter due to your storage methods . The only thing that should happen to tea as a result of how you store it is general loss of flavor or loss of the complexity of flavor ( in a green tea , you might lose any honey or fruit notes of a tea that has been improperly stored , but it 'll still taste like green tea ) . There are a couple of factors at play when storing tea . The first is light . Exposure to light will degrade the quality of tea , stripping it of both color and flavor . Light also sets off <URL> . So , you should store your tea in a light-blocking container ( like a typical metal tea tin ) . The next factor is air . Tea needs to be stored in a place that does not have any strong-smelling other foods or chemicals because it absorbs other odors very easily . In addition , tea absorbs moisture from the air , so it needs to be stored in a dry place . Moisture can cause several different problems with your tea : it could start binding to the tannins and make your tea taste bitter when you eventually brew it , and excess moisture could provide breeding grounds for bacteria or fungus , which would make your tea unfit for brewing at all . So , store your tea in an airtight container that blocks moisture and any other nearby odors . Vacuum sealing is not necessary , unless you want to keep a batch of tea for a long time without using it at all . I have n't found any evidence supports claims of oxidation affecting taste more than moisture or light . Different types of tea are created by oxidizing tea leaves ( white teas are the least oxidized , black teas the most , and greens and oolongs are somewhere in between ) , so oxidation is not inherently bad for tea . To sum it up : Protect your tea from the harmful effects of light , moisture , ambient odors , and air by storing it in an airtight container in a cool , dark place . If stored properly , most kinds of tea leaves should retain most of their flavor for about two years , though fresher is always better . ( Some teas , like Japanese green teas , are traditionally only stored for about 3 months . ) Brewing Tea In order to achieve the best taste , brew tea according to the processor 's instructions ( at least to start with - once you become more familiar with tea and what you like , you can adjust according to taste ) . The tea manufacturer 's want their tea to taste good , and they are experts , so you can rely on them to provide decent instructions . I 've never bought tea that did n't have instructions for brewing right on the package , but in case you find some that do n't have instructions , here are some general guidelines . I 've taken this from Upton Tea 's <URL> , and it corresponds to my own experience with making tea and chatting with tea importers / shop owners , too . Whole Leaf Teas black teas : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 3-4 minutes ; if serving with milk or lemon , steep 4-5 minutes green teas : slightly less than boiling ( 180 F ) , steep 2-3 minutes oolong teas : lighter oolongs use warm ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes white teas : less than boiling ( 180 F ) water , steep for 2-3 minutes herbal tisanes : boiling ( 212 F ) water , steep for 5-8 minutes Fanning , Crushed Leaves , or Powder This is what most pre-bagged teas are , and since they have been processed to be finer , they require a shorter brewing time . ( Finer leaves means more surface area , so you get more tannins per second when brewing , compared to tea leaves in larger pieces . ) Use guidelines above , but brew for 1-1 .5 minutes less than whole leaf teas The bitter taste comes from <URL> . There are two ways for tea to become unpleasantly bitter : steeping at too high a temperature , or steeping for too long . ( It 's also possible that if your water is heavily chlorinated or otherwise impure that it could be making your tea taste bad , but that 's far less likely than improper brewing . ) If you 're making tea from loose tea leaves , using too many leaves could also make your tea bitter ; a good rule of thumb is 1 teaspoon of tea per 8 oz of water , though this can vary depending on the type of tea you 're making . Generally speaking , the longer you brew tea , the more tannins will be released and the bitterer the tea will be . If you use the times above as a starting point , you should n't get any overly bitter tea , but remember : each batch of tea is unique , and each tea drinker 's taste is different . Experiment until you find what you consider to be the perfect cup of tea . Lastly , start with good quality tea . Some tea is poorly processed and the flavor is ruined before you 've even opened the package . If you start with a high-quality tea , you 're much more likely to get good results . :)
Sauces separate when frozen for several reasons . If it contains vegetables , the plant cells rupture when the water in them freezes . This means the sauce gets watery and the taste changes as the contents of the cells escape . With emulsions , the oil/fat microdroplets clump together when they freeze . When you thaw the sauce , the emulsion is wrecked , giving a runny consistency . You can defeat this by re-emulsifying as you thaw the sauce . See <URL> Due to <URL> , areas of less concentrated solution will freeze first , and more concentrated solution freeze last . As the solution gradually freezes , this has the effect of concentrating dissolved thickening agents in the last regions to freeze . When the solution thaws , the thickener is n't as evenly mixed .
Calamari or squid is of course famous for being difficult to cook , because it gets tough or rubbery . As Harold McGee explains in On Food and Cooking , octopus and squid meat are very rich in collagen : They are chewy when lightly cooked , tough when cooked to the denaturing temperatures of their collagen , around 120 - 130 F / 50 - 55 C , and become tender with long , slow cooking . The trick then is to either : Cook them minimally , so they do not begin to toughen . This <URL> for fried calamari recommends no more than one minute . My own interpretation of this is that it will keep the temperature of the squid below the 120 F threshold , at the risk of being below the pathogen kill point , so it should be done only with squid from a trustworthy purveyor . Cook them for a long time , slowly , as in a braise , so they move through the tough phase to tender again . This <URL> recipe for stuffed squid by Ann Burrell is an example . The total squid cooking time is 20 to 25 minutes .
This has happened to many of us . Your oven is hot . You have a beautifully crafted pizza ready to cook . You are minutes away from food time . You give your peel one last shake , but only part of the pizza moves . If you ca n't get it unstuck with shaking alone ( and this typically is n't enough if you have a leak ) , you will need to try to carefully lift the stuck spot . Using two spatulas , and even a third hand , if available , can help out greatly . I recommend easing a large plastic or metal spatula to start with . While it may have limited reach , a larger spatula will allow you to lift the pizza without stretching it too much or disrupting your toppings . Then , using a second , smaller , rubber or silicone spatula , shove some flour or corneal under the first spatula . If you see a sauce leak , I recommend using flour . Think about it this way : if you spilled oil on your driveway , you would probably try to soak it up with kitty litter rather than tennis balls . If the stuck spot is large enough , you will need to repeat this process from another direction . As you work to unstick the pizza , keep shaking , and work the pizza towards the edge of the peel . If you get the pizza unstuck , try to keep shaking it until you are sliding it into the oven . If you ca n't get it to stay unstuck and all else fails , get your large spatula ( s ) under the sticky spots , place the leading edge of the pizza on the baking surface in the oven , and shimmy/shove the pizza off of the peel . Only try this if the oven temperature is low enough that you can do this safely . If you are using your standard home oven , you should be fine , especially if you use something to protect your hands . It also helps to have another person to open the oven and help you out with another spatula if needed . You might end up with a pizza that is shaped like Texas or a donut , but it probably wo n't be a total loss , and you will probably get better with time . While I am at it , I will share some prevention tips , specific to your situation , that I have learned , but have n't found elsewhere . You can find a few more <URL> , but it sounds like you 're already familiar with those tips : If you see a weak spot in your dough once you 've stretched it out , you can preempt it with extra flour underneath it before you start adding toppings . If feasible , you can also try using little or no sauce on that spot . If you are making pizza , there is a good chance that you have another human around , waiting to consume it . Conscript that person to either help with toppings , or to shake the peel at regular intervals . This can help you get to the oven faster , giving your pizza less time to stick . If you use that person as a shaker , you will know as soon as your pizza starts sticking . Try to handle any adhesion as soon as it happens , when there are n't as many toppings to disrupt .
I have had a pizza with a drizzle of olive oil on top ( in addition to some basil , pesto , and something else ) . As best I remember , it did not end up looking , feeling , or tasting particularly " oily " , although it was visually apparent ( olive-green lines ) . However , that was a high-end pizzeria ; I 've never seen oil on a delivered pizza , at least not any that was intentionally added as a separate ingredient . Oil that is orange or yellow comes out of the cheese ( and salami or other fatty ingredients ) during cooking . Inexpensive ingredients often have much more grease than higher-quality alternatives .
I had to do some reading on this one . There are a lot of answers . 1 - You should find a better recipe . Chocolate spread recipes I have used come in one of two styles . The water in your recipe seems to be a problem . The nutella style that uses fat , sugar , and chocolate . These will not really dry out . Sometimes the oil will separate a little and will need to be mixed back in . I would group frostings in this group although , of course , they contain far more sugar . See this recipe : <URL> Thick chocolate candy . AKA fudge . These contain water but the sugar and water are cooked together into a syrup so the water is not able to immediately dry out . They will crystallize if they are badly handled - many recipes contain a little corn syrup to prevent this . This does not seem to be what you are trying to make . 2 - Store your concoction in a lidded container that is n't too much larger than your sauce . I use mason jars to store mine . Alternatively you can push plastic wrap down onto the surface of the spread . 3 - Refrigeration . Recipes that do n't contain dairy do n't need to be refrigerated and in fact should n't be because it causes them to harden . 4 - Adding water to melted chocolate is only a problem when dealing with chocolate that is dry and meant to solidify such as a molded chocolate . In such a case even a drop of water will cause seizing . In this case where there is already quite a bit of water in the recipe seizing is not a risk and you should n't have any problem mixing a tiny bit back in . Do not add water to the nutella-like spread recipes . They do not contain water and it will not mix in . I ca n't tell from your description what is causing your sauce to harden - it could be drying out , separating , or crystallizing . Any of these will be solved by reheating and thoroughly stirring . Although water could be added to restore dried syrup I think you will get better results by switching to a recipe that uses fat in place of the water .
You can add quite a lot of tomato paste/puree but this will mask the fresh flavour of your tomatoes . I think I 'd just reduce the soup down once it was made or add carrots . Carrot flavour really complements tomato soup and many tomato soups recipes require carrots . The starch will then help you thicken the soup .
Most people get burned biryani because of the rice . It must be soaked and the par cooked before going into the pot . Also the quality of the rice is important . IMO that would always be Basmati rice . I always soak my rice for an hour for any dish . The cooking vessel has to be heavy and sealed . This ensures that the cooking happens in an almost pressure cooker state inside the pot . Some people seal their pot lid with a flour dough . Cast iron pots are the best .
Yeast action is only one factor in getting a rise when baking . Yeast metabolizes sugars and produces CO2 bubbles which puff up your dough , and also help with gluten development to make your dough stretchy . However , when you bake your dough much of the lift you get is from the expansion of water turning into steam - this is what makes pizza dough puff up a bit when baked and gives you that texture . Water is also important in gluten development when your dough is proofing , without enough water you wo n't get an elastic dough with good crumb . My thinking is that your dough is too dry , so add more water to your dough . Stick to the amounts of flour and water in a trusted recipe and knead with oil instead of flour . After kneading your dough should be fairly loose and just a bit sticky , and you should be able to stretch it quite a bit without breaking . Regarding oven temperatures you do n't need the fires of hades to make a good pizza - the most important things for a good pizza is a good base , sauce , and quality ingredients . Crank your oven up as high as it will go and use a pizza stone ( make sure to heat it up for at least 30 minutes ) and you 'll get a good result .
A pizza stone in a normal oven will only get the maximum temperature of the oven ( probably not more than 280 ºC / 530 ºF ) . A specific pizza oven will gett hotter ( the one you linked gets 390 ºC / 735 ºF and , indeed has a stone inside ) . If you want to get Italian style pizzas , go for the pizza oven . They need that high temperature in order to be ready in ( ideally ) 90 seconds . Those Ferrari ovens are one of Italian 's favourite ones , albeit they 'll need a bit more time than 1.5 minutes achievable in wood fired traditional pizza ovens . You ( probably ) wo n't be able to achieve those high temperatures with a normal home kitchen oven , unless you have a pyrolytic home oven , and hack it in order to cook in it during the pyrolysis cycle . As for the waiting time between pizzas using a stone , consider it as a capacitor ( or a rechargeable battery ) : It takes heat ( until is soaked up ) , and then gives it back . Once you make 1 pizza ( or a loaf of bread ) , it needs to soak ( a bit ) again .
As Catohound already mentioned , it 's a symptom of using a high speed blender . You may find <URL> technique useful . Tcrn the blender to its lowest setting and then slowly ramp it up until the top of the liquid just starts to circulate ( usually around speed 4 or 5 on a Vitamix ) . As you run it at this low speed , you will see bubbles coming out in the center . My wife and I do this with our Vitamix and it generally gives good results .
The ratio of food to size of container will make a large difference as well as the the texture of the item being blended . This has been a problem for me with traditional blenders . I 've found that an immersion ( stick ) blender helps tremendously with this in two specific ways : First , with a stick blender , you are basically holding the blade and can move it around , preventing food from separating and sticking to the sides . Second , most immersion blenders come with small bowl accessories that in essence give you a " mini blender " . Since the bowl is smaller in size , food separating and sticking to the side is n't as much of an issue . Immersion blenders are pretty cheap -- you can get one for as little as $ 20 . I have the Braun model . It 's amazing but I think they stopped making it . The best one on the market now is the KitchenAid . I use mine for hummus , soups and pestos . It 's without a doubt one of the most useful tools in my kitchen .
If you insist on using a damp cloth , you have to make it wet again and again , so this is quite cumbersome especially with long proofing times . Much easier is plastic wrap , which does n't prevent the dough from rising if you use it to cover a sufficiently large bowl . Tightly wrapping the dough itself obviously wo n't work . My prefered method for these very long raises is a large food-safe plastic container with a lid . It does n't have to be super-airtight and as I usually do a round of " stretch and fold " or quick punchdown every 12-24 hours I never had a problem with dried or overflowing dough .
end question
start question
Do lamb kidneys require their cores to be removed and what is the easiest way to remove them ?
The simplest way to remove kidney cores is to cut the kidneys in half ( horizontally ) then snip the cores out with a pair of sharp scissors . With practice this can be done in two or three quick cuts .
The ideal tool depends on what you 're trying to do with it . If you want something nice and fine , which will release as much flavor as possible , avoid getting any of the pith , and not add distracting texture to a dish , use a fine rasp grater ( sometimes known by the brand name microplane ) : ( There are also coarse rasp graters . That wo n't be any better than a standard grater . You want one that looks like the picture . ) If you want something small but visible , use a citrus zester : You can get skinny little strips that tend to curl with the small holes at the end , and bigger curls like you 've seen on the rims of cocktails with the wider hole in the middle . ( Edit : added the second picture . That looks like it was fun . ) Finally , if you want big pieces to put in something to cook in something , then maybe fish out later , you can use a normal vegetable peeler :
Is n't that normal ? I suppose if it 's causing a problem , you could use a non-stick ( teflon , etc. ) muffin pan , without the paper liners . You could also try silicone-coated ( parchment ) liners . A quick check reveals that e.g. , Amazon sells them . < purist > cornbread shall be cooked in preheated cast iron , and if that 's sticking , you need to <URL> . < / purist >
I always used to reach in and grab stuff , but I would always put a piece of tape over the switch first .
Best thing to do is to keep them out of the light in an cool dark dry place . I usually put them in a hessian bag to try and keep the moisture away . Do n't store them in the fridge or anywhere that gets direct sunlight .
Sugar does not cause sour food to be any less acidic . The difference is purely one of perception ; we are wired by evolution to prefer sweet tastes and tend to perceive less of other tastes when a high sugar concentration is present . Sugar does not ionize - it is not basic or acidic . Acidity itself is a chemical property , and only a base ( such as baking soda or trisodium citrate ) can actually neutralize it . Two other compounds - <URL> and <URL> - actually alter our mouth chemistry and really do cause sour foods to taste sweet , without actually sweetening the food itself . But plain sugar does nothing at all - there is no chemical reaction happening . It 's just masking other tastes , not neutralizing them . The reason sugar does n't mask bitterness as effectively as sourness is that sweet and sour have roughly similar taste thresholds , while most humans are extremely sensitive to bitter tastes . We can detect quinine ( the reference solute for bitterness ) in solution at 0.5 ppm , whereas sucrose is n't normally detectable at levels below 5000 ppm . The amount of sugar needed to mask a significant bitter taste is simply not practical . If you want to neutralize a bitter taste , <URL> .
The truth is , there really is no good way to reheat such sandwiches . The bread will have gotten soggy while the sandwich was in the refrigerator , and the densest part ( which requires the most energy to get hot ) is on the inside . The option which is probably the least poor is to use the microwave , as more of the energy will be transmitted to the filling directly than with other heating methods . This is still likely to leave the bread kind of mushy and rubbery . Your best option is to only buy the size of sandwich you want to eat , or to split one with someone . Note that you mentioned store bought subs . If the sandwiches are homemade , there is a good answer : do n't assemble them until you want to eat them . You can then toast the bread , and heat the filling separately , and then combine them , and thus have a very fine sandwich .
Dried vegetation usually suffers cell wall degradation . So when rehydrated all the oils and flavours will easily leach out . This is very desirable for vegetation you want to extract oils and flavours from Many " teas " are also partially fermented for additional flavour . This processes need to be stopped otherwise the whole plant will be consumed . Drying is the simplest way to stop fermentation , and make the product storable and transportable
It not huge , it 's just the difference from freezer to room temperature you are worrying about E.g. -20 & deg ; C to 20 & deg ; C , is A 40 & deg ; C shift . The shift was going to be 20 & deg ; C to 100 + & deg ; C anyway . There is no physical reasons why this would be anymore stressful From room temperature you are raising it 80 & deg ; C , from frozen you are raising it 120 & deg ; C. Not a problem in the normal temperature range for glass The freezing temperature of water ( most common item in food ) has no relation to the freezing temperature of glass etc Pyrex and other glasses can be damaged if one part of them is instantly heated or cooled by a 100 & deg ; C or so
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
The oil will always separate from the rest of the product . ( home made or natural/bio peanut butter will behave the same way ) When that happens , just spend some time and elbow grease to mix it back together again . if the tahini was stored in the fridge , it might take longer because everything will be harder . Just leave it on the counter for a while until it gets to room temperature before mixing it back together . ( after googling ) People suggest to keep the jar upside down and when you want to use it , just put it back straight and let it stand for a while , it will mix itself ( a little bit ) together again .
It will firm up a little bit during chilling , but not much . It is certainly supposed to be firm enough to keep its shape on its own when taken out . If you have baked creme caramel or cheesecake , then try to get it to a similar consistency as these . If you have n't , you may want to use a roast thermometer . The final temperature ( assuming a traditional flan without starch or flour ) should fall in the 85-90 Celsius range .
This coating is not the same thing as a seasoning . Iron rusts when exposed to air . For cooking purposes , you season it , and it prevents rusting . Some manufacturers sell their iron cookware pre-seasoned , but others use other types of coating to prevent rust . This other coating can consist of wax or petroleum products such as parafin . Its only purpose is to seal the pan air-tight for the time it spends in warehouses and stores . It would melt during cooking and mix with your food . Therefore , you ca n't use it instead of seasoning . But you ca n't season a pan " on top " of the wax coating . The real seasoning would stick to the wax , and when the wax melts , the seasoning will come off . Therefore , you have to remove the wax coating before making a normal seasoning from polymerized oil . If you bought a pan which was seasoned instead of wax-coated , you can start using it without any removing and re-seasoning .
I 'm a fan of prepping some vegetables for the week on a day off . I 'm much more likely to eat salad if I have the fixings ready in my fridge . I 'm no expert , this is just what I 've found works best for me . Certainly some vegetables are more suited to cutting and storing than others . I find controlling humidity and condensation in storage to be the most important factor . I store almost everything in covered pyrex , unless it needs to breath ( and those go in the humid compartment ) . Veggies with less water can be kept humid with a lightly moist paper towel on top . Wetter veggies can cause condensation and lead to sliminess . A dry paper towel and/or an open container can help with that . A veggie should either be submerged in water , or not in water at all . Sitting in condensation is that biggest problem in storage . Cut carrots keep in water for a week with no change in quality . Out of water , they can dry out a bit . I do n't find the dryness to be a problem . Sliced bell peppers keep pretty well with a moist paper towel in the container . I find onions to be pretty indestructible , though the flavor gets a bit milder over time . Broccoli and cauliflower are also pretty hardy . A dry paper towel or two will deal with water from washing them , which is the biggest problem I 've had . Mushrooms and leafy greens need to breath . Cucumbers and tomatoes do n't store as well as others .
I usually put tinfoil down and then lightly oil it . If done carefully , the tray stays clean and does n't need to be washed and the foil can be thrown out ( or used for a second batch of veggies if you have one ) .
It 's not just American supermarkets that rarely carry mutton , this situation is similar across the Anglosphere , and I suspect most Western countries too ( or at least those without a strong mutton culture ) . The reason is largely economic . Mutton is expensive and not as tasty as lamb . First , the immediate reason is that nobody really eats mutton anymore . Yes , there are certain locales , cultures and movements still eating mutton or are trying to bring it back , but today , on aggregate , the demand for mutton is near zero . According to the <URL> : The U.S. market for lamb and mutton has weakened throughout the decades . Since the 1960s , per capita consumption has dropped from nearly 5 pounds to just about 1 pound . This drop is due in part to declining acceptance of lamb from a growing segment of the population , as well as competition from other meats , such as poultry , pork , and beef . Most meat is sold as lamb and comes from animals under 14 months old . Here 's a per-capita consumption graph : <URL> If nobody buys mutton , supermarkets do n't sell them . The supply chain for meats is pretty complex ; it 's not something that a store manager can just decide one day to order a batch and shelve to see if it sells . Meat needs to be slaughtered and deboned in an abattoir , butchered either in store butcheries or at centres ( unless you fancy buying an entire , 50kg cut ) , and displayed in refrigerated sections . If there 's enough local demand for mutton then maybe individual supermarkets can carry them , just as meats like rabbit , duck or kangaroo is sometimes sold at a few supermarkets . But why do n't people eat mutton ? People just do n't like it . It is an <URL> . Mutton comes from older animals and is often less expensive but less desirable to consumers . ( USDA ) . As can be seen , the average income elasticities across the studies are 0.77 for beef , 0.24 for lamb , -0.65 for mutton , 0.47 for chicken and 0.48 for pork . ( Negative income inelasticity = inferior good ) That is , as incomes grow , as they have over this timeframe , people want to buy less of it . Lamb is a superior substitute for mutton . Anecdotally , compared to lamb , mutton is gamier , tougher , and harder to cook . Economically , lamb and mutton have high cross-price elasticity - if one 's price grows , demand shifts to the other , indicating that they are substitutes . And the real killer is ... Mutton prices have grown faster than lamb . <URL> Mutton is still cheaper than lamb , but in relative terms it has become more economic to raise and sell lamb . There are multiple market forces at play : the cost of raising the sheep past lamb age , the efficiency of raising lambs ( i.e. increased lamb weight ) , the growth of dairy leading to higher beef supply , the relative decline in wool reducing mutton supply and so on . You 'll have to ask a farmer . <URL> Update : did n't notice that the graph was price indices and not actual prices
Mint likes oil . And it likes water . And it likes alcohol . Like most complex flavors , mint is complicated . The greener , vegetal notes are going to be from compounds like chlorophyll , and will be alcohol and very weakly water soluble . The astringent , sharper notes are going to from compounds like menthol , which are oil soluble . In general , the faster flavors , the ones that hit fast and fade faster , are water soluble , while the ones that linger are oil soluble . Mint flavor is sold both as an extract , in a base of water or alcohol , and as an essential oil , in a base of ... oil . As for cooking , I would skip the tomatoes entirely , and do a mint and parsley pesto with walnuts and olive oil . Why ? I like mint .
Once it 's cooled down some , I switch to using my hands ... expecially as it helps to find any bones , globs of fat , etc. . I find it goes much faster , particularly if you 're dealing with anything other than boneless breast meat . ... but it shreds easiest while it 's still warm , so if I 'm doing a fair bit , I 'll break a bit apart using forks , let that cool , break some more apart with a fork , then shread the first bit before it cools too much , repeat . ( so basically , I have one set broken down somewhat to cool faster while I 'm shreding an already-cooled off bit ) . update as justkt mentioned , the cooking method matters -- roasting and other high heat methods are going to cook the outside faster than the inside . I typically poach my chicken if I 'm going to be shreding it -- bring water to a boil , add chicken , bring back to a boil , turn to low , then leave for an hour or two ... the low temp gets it all nice and tender , while the boiling kills surface bacteria .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
Your common ' non-solid ' high-protein items are : peanut butter , or other nut butters eggs yogurt cheese ( cream cheese or served melted ) tofu Depending on how strict you 're being with the fat intake , you can go even further ... low fat or non-fat yogurts and cheese ( eg . neufchâtel instead of cream cheese ) ; whites only for the eggs , etc. . Be warned that if you try to go too low-fat during this time , your body might actually crave more feed , making the problem worse . If it 's not a problem with your body being unable to process fats , you might want to reduce protein but increase fats during this time . The good news is that unless you 're a body builder , having a lower protein diet for a week or two while things heal wo n't cause your body to start eating itself -- in fact , most American diets have more protein in it than our bodies need -- about 3-5oz of meat per day ( not per meal ) is enough ; exact amount depends on your size and build . As you can get away with soft foods , and not just non-solid : Scrambled eggs ( leave out a few yolks if you 're really sensitive to the fat ) . Pulled pork , roja vieja , pot roast cooked ' ragout ' , or similar ( you might need to also chop it up if the bits of meat are long ) . Pasta with an egg sauce ( like carbonara , but might have to avoid the black pepper and/or crispy meat ... might be able to use a soft ham and/or add extra salt or worcestershire ) or a cheese sauce ( eg , macaroni and cheese , alfredo ) Tuna fish ( canned in water ; can either make into a tuna salad ( avoid celery . Use a grater to extract onion juice for flavor without solid bits of onion . Pickle brine can help brighten it up while being non-solid ) Refried beans ( make your own , and you can cut down the fat significantly ) Many soups . ( either make a strong stock , cook the meat 'til it 's soft , or put it through a blender ... or egg drop soup ) Cheesecake ( use neufchâtel cheese , or find a recipe that uses soft tofu ) Flan , custards , or ice cream ( made with a custard base , but low-fat milk ) You can also work some extra protein into other dishes ... thin your mashed potatoes with ( pre-heated ) stock a bit more than you typically would , then while still hot , blend in a egg or two . Or add neufchâtel cheese instead of milk or butter ( add stock if you still need to thin it further for your tastes )
end question
start question
Is putting pots on the stove without oil or water damaging the pot ?
I believe that a pan needs to get very hot for damage to occur - 500c is the number I found for <URL> specifically , and carbon steel would be <URL> up similar temperatures , I do n't have numbers for copper or other metals pots can be made of offhand but the point stands - it will take very high temperatures to effect a metal pan to the point where it warps or alters itself , and the pan should be safe at any temperature you would be cooking food at . You should be able to heat the pan to those temperatures before any adverse reactions can begin to occur . On the other hand , it is very difficult to tell how hot a dry pan actually is - it may be too easy to misjudge the safe heat , to let the pan get hot enough to warp or scorch the seasoning or burn whatever is added or worse , suffer thermal shock when something is finally put in the pan . A pan with water in it wo n't rise above 100c until the water 's gone , and while oil wo n't keep the temp low like water will , it will change as it heats , and can provide some warning that the pan is getting too hot before it reaches a point where the pan is damaged - even if that warning , at the last , is the oil smoking or scorching . Thicker pans should fare a little better , since they take a bit longer to heat , and can distribute the heat more evenly , and they 're also sturdier and might resist warping because of that - but thin pans can get very hot on the contact points , and will bend or warp more easily . Also , with a dry pan the possibility of thermal shock is higher - in a pan with liquid in it , the water or oil acts as a good medium to transfer heat through , sort of like a buffer for temperature change , so if something cold ( er ) gets added to a hot pan , the oil or water will transfer heat into it and out of the hot pan and liquid , much more evenly , and stabilize the temperature faster . In a dry pan , the heat will transfer only at the point of contact , and fast , so a dry pan will undergo stress at the point of contact much more . Also , adding the water or oil you need to cook with itself can become a source of thermal shock if the dry pan had gotten too hot on the stove , so adding room temperature liquid might cause the pan damage as the heat flows out suddenly and unevenly , pans have cracked under such stresses . In the end , I think you can certainly put your pans on the stove without any contents , and have the pan come out undamaged even if had been heated quite a bit - but you have to be careful and skilled not to overheat your pans too much , and that can be tricky to gauge with a dry pan . On the other hand , having water or oil in the pan will keep the temperature low or warn you when it is overheating , so it is just a little bit safer ( and so probably good advice ) .
By quick-prepare ravioli , you mean without sauce , right ? It 's fine to ( and you should ) cover the pot to bring the water to a boil . Incidentally , it 's best to start with cold water from the tap , hot tap water will be more contaminated . Once the water is boiling , you add the salt , then the pasta . Now , adding the pasta will bring down the temperature of the water , so you can briefly put the lid back on to more quickly bring the water back up to the boil . Once the water is boiling again , you should keep it uncovered because pasta water is very prone to foaming up and boiling over . It 's a royal pain when that happens , so it 's generally recommended to not cover pasta while it is boiling . If your pot is big enough and you watch carefully , you can save some energy by cooking with the lid on , just be careful because boil-overs happen quickly . Obviously , it 's good to have a stockpot with a glass lid for that . EDIT : Now that I 've covered the conventional wisdom , I 'd also encourage you to read this : <URL> , especially the Serious Eats link . I admit , I have n't done it ( set in my ways , I suppose ) , but considering your set-up , you might find the method works better for you .
For rice it depends . Cooking any starch in water will first cause the starch granules to swell and eventually tangle up with each other ( the gelatinization ) . Dissolving sugars or salts in the water slows down the process by raising the temperature the swelling starts . While few prefer pasta as a stuck blob of strands , the same is not the case for rice . I like my Basmati loose , but my risotto and sushi sticky , so salt may be required for Basmati and optional for Arborio . There are many techniques for controlling the starch for rice . To control the starch gelatinization of rice : <URL> ; or <URL> Method 1 wo n't avoid the grain surface starch gelatinization , but it will help with stickiness ( you may oil coat it after draining ) . Method 2 delays the starch release allowing you to finish a risotto in seven minutes . Cool for parties or for restaurants .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
They do n't correspond to a temperature , they correspond to a rate of heat input . The elements in your oven are connected to a thermostat with regulates their temperature , they are really constant heat/fixed temperature devices , like the heat in your home . The oven turns the elements on and off to regulate temperature , but the elements are only ever ON or OFF . The stovetop elements , by contrast , are variable heat/variable temperature . There is no thermostat , but the elements can be variably adjusted between MAX and OFF . For every setting the temperature will just keep getting hotter and hotter ( unless something is removing the heat , like cooking food ) - the higher settings will just get hotter faster . The important thing to know ( for an electric range ) is the wattage of the elements - most 8 " elements are ~ 2500W , and most 6 " elements are ~ 1500W . But there is a lot of variability . Additionally , if you are living in a home with 240V power but have recently lived in an apartment ( which likely had 208V power , but 240V elements installed in the oven , even if you did n't realize it ) , your heater elements will seem much hotter than before . It is also possible that the oven maker or previous owner installed higher wattage elements ( perhaps by installing elements intended for a 208V service in a home with 240V service , which would have the effect of " turbocharging " them a bit ) . Temperature measured with an IR thermometer may not be useful for you to determine if your oven is hotter than usual , since an empty pan on Low will still reach 400 + degrees ( it will just get there slower ) . What might be more useful is to find out what setting people do certain cooking tasks at , and see if that is different than what works on your oven . You can also remove the elements and find the voltage/wattage stamped on the bottom - let us know what those values are and we may be able to tell you if they are abnormally high . Personally , I sweat onions on 4/10 , fry an egg at 6/10 , simmer soup at 2/10 , and maintain 1 gallon water at a consistent , but not vigorous boil at 8/10 .
Assuming that there were stock pots manufactured with handles that broke off , they would likely have been recalled by the CPSC . It <URL> that the CPSC has only ever recalled <URL> that was based on a single report of a handle breaking off . The problematic stock pot was sold by a liquidation company . Based on this , I 'd assume that any NSF certified stock pot that you buy from a reputable retailer is going to be safe .
Yes , It 's a Moka Pot . Despite the name , you ca n't prepare espresso coffee in that pot . The coffee that you can prepare with the Moka pot is not even close to an Espresso . The pressure is key to extract the coffe aroma and to produce the cream . The Espresso requires 7 grams of coffee powder and high pressure 90 ° C water to produce 25ml coffe ( cream included ) . There 's no way to do such a thing with a Moka pot . With a Moka pot , you will get a coffee , which is not Expresso but is also a coffe which is widely drink in Italy ( at home , usually ) . It 's different from Espresso but , in my opinion , good . It has it 's own taste . The closest thing to an Espresso you can get , if you woUld like to go that way , is a small amount of coffee , but you wo n't get the same flavour , nor the density .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
This is my personal experience . It takes sometime to reach the boiling temperature ( again ) when you add colder water . As a result , vegetables get cooked for a longer period than anticipated . This makes some vegetables becoming mushy and not tasting as good as otherwise . ( Example : Egg Plant ) Therefore , I make sure to add the right amount of water in the first place .
A regular electric oven uses a large coiled resistor as a heating element . A large electric current is passed through this element which generates heat , similar to the tungsten filament of an incandescent light bulb . An induction stove does n't actually generate heat itself , but rather induces it the pot or pan . It does this using a rapidly oscillating magnetic field . This field induces an electric current in a ferromagnetic pan which generates heat , thus heating the food . Induction stoves are faster , safer , and more energy efficient than traditional electric stoves . It requires significantly less electricity to create the magnetic field than it does to drive enough current through a resistor to make it heat up . They are safer because they do n't actually generate heat themselves . After taking a pot off the " burner " ( glass surface ) it quickly begins to cool . With regards to differences in the cooking process , there 's not much . You just need to be aware that it heats up much more quickly and cools down much more quickly than a traditional electric stove . It does affect your choice of pans however . All aluminum pans will not work , nor will some lower quality stainless steel ones . If a magnet sticks to the pan then it will work just fine . The pan must also have a flat bottom to make full contact with the surface .
Residual starches swell up and get sticky in hot water . This does n't happen with cold water -- In the time it takes to wash a pot .
Unfortunately I do n't agree with the given answers . I recently bought a $ 350 zojirushi rice cooker . According to the manual there is such a thing as " rinse-free " rice . There is even a function on the rice cooker for this setting . In addition , the rice cooker manual explains that the rice should be rinsed several times with cold water .
Martha 's Vinyard Magazine suggests that the diamater of the stalks is not directly related to their age as one might suspect : Some might assume thinner spears are younger and therefore more tender . The diameter , however , has more to do with the age of the plant itself and the particular asparagus variety . They go on to cite Cook 's Illustrated , saying : [ T ] hin and thick spears as equally sweet , nutty , and grassy , but ... thicker spears have a slightly better , more tender texture . The reason is that the fiber is somewhat more concentrated in thinner spears . You can peel asparagus if you choose to . Personally , I peel the base of thicker stalks . Mark Bittman recommends peeling from just under the flowers to the base of the stalk on the thicker stalks . Thinner stalks may be easier to saute or grill , and thicker ones more suited to steaming , poaching , and so on , but this is more related to the time it takes them to cook through . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
Wetted starch is not the same thing as cooked starch . If you want to see the difference in a simple experiment , make two starch slurries , boil one into a pudding , and leave the other one cold . Starch only gelates at high temperatures ( I think it starts around 70 ° C , but needs even more to complete the process ) . When you have a grain of rice , you have the problem that the starch is very closely packed together , and water ca n't penetrate into the center of the grain too well - the outside layers soak all the water they come in contact with , and so water only seeps into the center of the rice after the outer part has been hydrated . It is similar for pasta . In the worst case , when you cook rice , the time needed for cooking will be enough to heat the whole grain to the gelating temperature , but not enough for the water to hydrate the innermost part of the corn . This is fine if you want hardish-cooked rice , but if you want soft , mushy rice , you should presoak it so the inside is already hydrated when you start cooking it . I suppose you can do the same with pasta . This is the reason why some sources will advice you to presoak . But , as I said , this is not the same as cooking . Yes , the rice or pasta will get soft , so you wo n't break your teeth if you try to eat it . But it will still be raw starch . I do n't know if it is unhealthy to eat raw starch ( my mother certainly told me so , but it could have been a myth ; I asked <URL> and got no conclusive answers ) . But it will probably taste unpleasant , similar to raw potatoes or raw flour . I would try to get other sources of food for this time period . Or , as @justkt 's comment suggests , it is easy to get an electric kettle in a brand new house before the kitchen is installed . You can use it to pour cooking water over " instant " versions of pasta and rice . These have been pregelated and then dehydrated , so do n't need a prologned cooking . They are usually available as instant hot soup or rice meals in sachets and cardboard boxes , I have n't seen them as pure ingredients .
This question was answered to some extent in another <URL> . This answer , which is basically just a link to <URL> , dispels a number of myths about cooking pasta . For instance : Water will return to a boil in the same amount of time regardless of how much is in the pot prior to pasta being added . Pasta wo n't get sticky with smaller amounts of water . It only gets sticky because of reactions in the first few minutes of cooking , and the solution is to stir it . This is necessary even with lots of water . You do not need a lot of water to cook pasta . Water does not need to be boiling to cook pasta . It simply needs to be <URL> . Some really interesting stuff in the article that debunks quite a lot of kitchen lore about cooking pasta . I have tried this at home with great success . So in answer to your specific question : No , you do not need a lot of water , it simply has to cover the pasta . The amount of salt is heavily dependent on the amount of pasta , the amount of water , and your own taste . You need to find a consistent way to cook pasta and then experiment .
Anything can spoil eventually , refrigerated or not . Keeping something under a lid and refrigerated restricts the number of airborne colonizers that might get access to it , and the cold temperature means that even if they get there , they will grow much slower than at room temperature . For something to spoil , it needs to be colonized by bacteria or fungus spores , and it needs to contain some nourishment to support their growth , not too much chemicals that prevent their growth , and not too much competing life forms already present . So , things with a high concentration of salt or sugar tend to be unhospitable to bacteria and fungi growth , because they are hygroscopic ( they draw the water out of cells ) . Extreme high or low pH ( eg acidic ) also retards growth . Think of things like ketchup , mustard , jelly with labels that say " refrigerate after opening " but most people ignore them . Alcohol is unfriendly if the concentration is too high , and of course natural fermented foods are already occupied by human-friendly bacteria . Ketchup is sealed in a bottle , usually with no fingers or utensils inserted into it , so it stays pretty sterile . It is also protected by being hygroscopic ( due to high concentration of sugar and salt ) and its acidity . Ketchup as a word and concept is descended from an Indonesian fish sauce , and has been around much longer than refrigeration . I think you can leave it out with no worries unless you see obvious mold growth .
Cook on a lower heat , in a pan with a thicker base , to distribute the heat . Check every now and again , and add water if the soup has become too thick . Also , the occasional stir can only help . Consider buying a slow cooker -- there are very cheap models that do the job well .
Pot Roasting = Braising This more recent document from the same association , Cattlemen 's Beef Board and National Cattlemen 's Beef , supports this by using them interchangeably : <URL> I was trying to figure out what the document from your question may have been implying by the cuts the different cooking techniques were recommended for . And I 'd guess , because Pot Roasting is applied to more connective heavy cuts , that braising would be a shorter cooking time . That 's my best guess .
Using stock ( or broth ) has two advantages over plain water : It is more flavorful , giving your pie a better , deeper background richness It contains gelatin , which may improve the mouth feel of your pie , giving it a thicker , silkier , richer texture Depending on your particular pie recipe 's filling , this may not make a huge amount of difference , or it could be the difference between a so-so and a great pie .
end question
start question
Do chillis impregnate a wooden chopping board ?
Pretty much everything I 've read ( <URL> ) says not to use wood , because the oils from the peppers will penetrate the board and transfer , and hold there indefinitely , even after thorough washings . <URL> is full of people with personal experience transferring the heat to later meals . That said , as with Jefromi , I 've cut hot peppers on wood before and not noticed any transfer . Specifically , home grown habaneros and jalapenos on maple boards . Maybe I 'm just acclimated to the heat and do n't notice , but those recommendations are not in line with my personal experience . I do thoroughly scrub my boards after use , but that probably is n't washing away any residual oils . If you really want to be safe , for example if someone in your house is heat sensitive or you have small children helping in the kitchen , you can dedicate a board to cutting peppers , or just cut peppers on a small plastic board and wash thoroughly after each use .
Honestly , do n't grill . Do n't run away ! Hamburgers were originally cooked in pans , not on grills . One of the reasons for this is thta with grilling you lose any fat and moisture that comes out of the burger . So I use Heston Blumenthal 's method now . While I tend to ignore the preparation elements ( I have neither the time nor the money to hand-grind my burgers with a specific ratio of this cut to that cut to the other cut ) , the cooking method is flawless : Make your burgers . Over very low heat , place a pan with just a little oil ( or bacon/duck fat , which is lovely ) . introduce burgers to pan . As soon as they release easily from the surface , flip . Thirty seconds later , flip . Repeat until cooked through . ( fifteen to twentyish minutes ) . This will give you the juiciest , most tender burgers you have ever had in your life . I promise . Essentially what you 're doing is basting the burgers in their own fat . Alternatively , if you have an immersion circulator , cook your burgers sous vide and then just mark on the grill when done . I 've had burgers done this way and they are excellent . Burgers will flare on the grill -- that 's all the fat ( and therefore flavour ) being squeezed out by the action of cooking and burning away .
Folding a burrito is serious business . Get it wrong and you 'll end up dumping most of the contents all over the place and look like a burrito noob . Get it right and your hands and plate will be perfectly clean , and you 'll no longer be hungry . Beware : publicly flaunting these skills might lead to people wanting you to fold their burritos for them . General Tips First off : make sure your tortilla is ready to be folded . A cold or dried out tortilla is likely to crack or split . Use a warm and moist tortilla . Second : do n't overfill the tortilla . If you have small tortillas do n't try to make a giant burrito and expect that to work . How to fold Now that we have the basics out of the way let 's get to folding . See <URL> ( which I 've converted into an image here ) : Place the contents in the approximately center of your partially folded tortilla . Leave plenty of room on the ends otherwise you 'll most surely have food spilling out once it 's folded up . Hold the filled tortilla so the weight of the filling pulls it tight . If your burrito busts through now , it will certainly burst later . If not , proceed to step 2 . Fold one end towards the center . Fold the other end over . Roll the bottom ( the end nearest you ) up towards the top . This is n't the intuitive way , but it 's the right way . Make sure not to let the food squeeze out . I hold it with my fingers at the crease where the bottom edge that 's been folded up meets the food . Keep rolling it up . Om nom nom .
Chicken fat is what you want , and -- this is important -- no cream or milk . Use chicken fat to make a roux , and then chicken stock . This will get you a yellowish colour . For extra bonus points , make your pastry with schmaltz as well . They do this at the gourmet supermarket down the road , and their chicken pot pies fly off the shelves .
From Googling Nutritional Claims Excellent : YES ! These terms are highly regulated in the United States . In the US , the FDA sets the <URL> for food products : " High , " " Rich In , " or " Excellent Source Of " - Contains 20 % or more of the DV per RACC . May be used on meals or main dishes to indicate that the product contains a food that meets the definition , but may not be used to describe the meal . " Good Source , " " Contains , " or " Provides " - 10 % -19 % of the DV per RACC . These terms may be used on meals or main dishes to indicate that the product contains a food that meets the definition but may not be used to describe the meal . " More , " " Fortified , " " Enriched , " " Added , " " Extra , " or " Plus " - 10 % or more of the DV per RACC than an appropriate reference food . May only be used for vitamins , minerals , protein , dietary fiber , and potassium . Note : DV = Daily Value , RACC = Reference Amount Customarily Consumed This is a really helpful page !
I see no reason that a cast iron waffle pan should be treated differently in regards to seasoning than other cast iron . Since it wo n't be cooking anything with significant fat in it naturally , if anything it may be more important ! Seasoning is both for non-stick reason and non-oxidizing reasons . Season it well on your own , then use it with some fat ( of some kind ) very lightly brushed on to keep it well . Only brushing right before use will keep one good likely , but would take a long , long time to naturally season since a large portion of the fat will immediately get used by the food . Cast iron gets gummy if you either 1 ) season with a spray like Pam consistently or 2 ) do n't cook your seasoning long enough and/or high enough . Use a fat , bacon fat , would be great here and season away - properly . In regards to seasoning , I recommend checking out <URL> , as its unneeded to replicate detailed information elsewhere in the site .
By your description I would say it 's taro or 芋头 ( yu tao ) in chinese <URL> It can be bought in most chinese supermarkets For more info <URL>
The machine should not be accumulating bits of dough ... it should be designed so that any stray crumbs of dough naturally fall out of it . This is true of mine ( Kitchen Aid Pasta Roller attachement ) an I merely use a stiff dry brush to clean off the bits of dough which stick to the outside . If the pasta maker is metal , you definitely do not want to use water , as the instructions say . You will never be able to dry it properly and it will rust . If it 's an inexpensive pasta maker , I would suggest trying a different brand . If it 's an expensive one , I would contact the manufacturer . Otherwise , canned compressed air as the two commentors above suggest is worth a try . FWIW , I would n't worry about the egg in the pasta dough becoming toxic . However , I would worry about the dirty pasta maker attracting bugs .
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
For Easter , a friend and I cooked rabbits . We marinated for 72 hours in buttermilk , dijon , rosemary , and sage ( NO SALT ) . Then boned them out and spatchcocked them ( sort of a butterfly , with skewers to hold the flat spread out shape ) , seasoned , and roasted at 350 until done . Moist , flavourful . Served with parsnip puree , rosemary potatoes roasted in duck fat , and sorry but I forget the other veg we used .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
It has long been known that receptacles influence the taste and appreciation of beverages . <URL> , for example , are optimal for giving the nose an opportunity to experience the wine . They enclose a volume that allows you to swish the wine in the glass ( without spilling it ) to impart the aroma to air in the glass . The usually tapered opening keeps the aroma from dissipating before your nose can sense the wine . Champagne flutes , keep the effervescent champagne or prosecco bubbly and cold long enough to enjoy the drink without it going flat . Different <URL> are optimal for showcasing the " head " and are tall for the same reason as champagne flutes ( to keep the effervescence going as long as possible ) . I think it is absolutely the case that the same kinds of considerations apply to cola and other effervescent soft drinks . My opinion is that the best glass for such beverages is a <URL> . It it tall and narrow and keeps the bubbles going for a longer time than a wide glass , it is like a champagne flute but holds a larger volume which is needed for soft drinks .
The difference between sweet and tart cherries is not so much the sweet , but more the tart . If you look at the nutrition information you 'll find that tart cherries have about 2/3 as much sugar as sweet , but twice as much Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) which is what gives them their tart flavor . With this in mind , most sweet cherry pie recipes include lemon juice , while tart cherry pies recipes do n't need the lemon juice for balance . Recipes for both type seem to use between 1/2 to 1 1/2 cups of sugar , so as Stephie says , " It 's mostly a matter of taste " From personal experience - I made 2 cherry pies using a tart cherry pie recipe , except substituting Bing cherries . I got more great reviews for those pies than you would believe . ( It might have something to do with the sweet tooth gene on that side of the family )
My version of this ( <URL> ) actually came with a set of instructions . It 's not meant to be used for cooking , only for serving . Place the pan in a hot oven for about 30 mins to heat it up ( while you 're cooking ) , then put your fajitas on it to bring to the table . The cast iron will retain heat for a long time and keep anything you serve on it sizzling hot . A cast iron pan would be a great way to cook fajitas , but the shallow sides and strange shape of the " sizzler " pan make it impractical to really cook on . The same instruction book also recommends using another cast iron pan ( two , actually ) to cook the fajitas . If you want to use it for something other than fajitas , it would work just fine as a small griddle . You could probably cook pancakes , a strip steak , or chicken breast on it , but nothing that requires any stirring .
I use two types of cutting boards : wood and [ soft ] plastic . The plastic is for meat , or anything that could ruin a wood cutting board . Wood is for everything else . If you can afford it , try to get an end-grain wood cutting board . Bamboo is a popular choice right now ( it 's affordable and sustainable ) , but I do n't have any personal experience with it . Most other materials , especially glass , will ruin your knives .
My grounds bin has a lid . So while the grounds still collect static , they do n't fly all over the place when I remove the bin from the grinder . Giving the bin few sharp taps on the counter top prior to opening seems to shake off most of what clings to the top and sides . Then I tap out the grounds , wipe out the bin with a napkin , and I 'm ready for the next morning . Beyond that , try switching up your coffee . The cheap " 8 O'Clock " stuff I keep on reserve is terribly staticy , while the beans I roast myself do n't have nearly the trouble . I tend to enjoy a lighter roast , so keep that in mind - you might benefit from grinding beans with just a bit higher moisture content ( of course , if you have a strong preference for dark roasts , this does n't help much ) .
The fridge itself does storing , cooling , and dehydrating . But the last part is rather slow , you do n't see the effect all that much . It is more prominent at low temperatures ( manifests as freezer burn ) . But try leaving unwrapped bacon slices in the regular fridge and you 'll see what I mean . But anyway , it is n't all that interesting what the fridge does , because we only use it for cooling . The interesting things happen in whatever you put into the fridge . The explanation will be somewhat long even without details . The dishes you described have different reasons to need cooling , so I have to deal with them separately . First , egg whites . Stiffly beaten egg whites tend to weep . Cooling them slows the process . You know , less Brownian motion , etc. . Still , overbeating them is never a good idea :) In this case , there are no fat particles responsible for the foam stability ; in fact , the smallest amount of fat can disrupt the building of egg white foam . The second class are the dishes which contain lots of saturated fat . They are made with ( raw ) cream , chocolate , butter , or other such stuff . Saturated fat is an amorphous solid , it has no sharp melting point . It gets very soft before it melts , butter is a good example . So these things are kept at fridge temperatures . If they are left to warm again to room temperature , they become much softer than in the fridge . ( The exception which gets softer than in the fridge , but not all the way to the state before cooling , is ganache . This is because cocoa contains starch , which thickens . See the part about gelling below ) . Third , we have custards . Panna cotta is a good example . They set by way of denaturing egg proteins . This happens at around 85 ° C , on the stove . They are put into the fridge to get colder , because they taste better that way . They do n't get firmer in there , and they wo n't melt if taken out of the fridge . Then we have the hydrocolloids , or gelling agents . While technically starch gels in a different way than gums , I 'll put them together here . The important point is to know if they are thermoreversible . Starch is n't thermoreversible . If you create a blanchmange thick enough to stay on its own out of the mold , it will need to be cooled before it is set completely . But once set , it wo n't go fluid again at high temperatures . Gelatin , on the other hand , is thermoreversible . It needs to be heated before it will dissolve at all , but then it must be cooled to set again . If you make jello and keep it outside of the fridge , it wo n't be much softer than in the fridge . But if you heat it up all the way to 50 ° C , it will melt to liquid again . Then there are the even funnier ones which will harden at high temperatures and soften at low temperatures , etc. . But mainly , you do n't have to keep hydrocolloid gels cooled once they are set . In fact , they do n't even need fridge temperatures to set . Gelatine is perfectly happy to gel at summer room temperatures . But the cooling takes much longer because of the smaller heat difference between liquid and air . So it sets quick in the fridge , but has to be left overnight in order to work at room temp . As for the practical meaning of all this : you can keep most stuff outside without a texture problem . The exception of this rule is anything made with saturated fat : cream , chocolate , pastry dough , buttercream frosting . But it is common knowledge that these should be kept cool anyway .
This is n't a perfect test , but a magnet wo n't stick to a silver utensil whereas it will stick to most other metal utensils ( i.e. , stainless steel ) .
There are two ways to thicken gravy : simmer down Requires time , patience and a wide pot to get a large surface area for optimum evaporation . Simmering down results in very concentrated flavours ( including salt , so be careful with salting in the beginning ) . use a thickener This is often something starchy like flour or corn / potato starch that binds the liquid . Note that the flavours wo n't be as concentrated , sometimes even a bit dulled by the starch . So try your sauce and depending on the flavour level you have reached now , you should simmer longer , use starch or do both sequentially . ( If your guests are hungrily gnawing at the tablecloth already , whip out the starch , adjust the seasoning and serve asap ^_^ )
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
end question
start question
How can I make melted chocolate set faster ?
Real chocolate ( cocoa solids , cocoa powder , and sugar ) is not the best thing for what you want . If properly handled , it can give you a great tasting glaze - but you do n't have the conditions to handle it properly ( slow cooling ) , so you will run into problems with it ( bad texture , sweating , bad looks/dull ) . Also , it wo n't be a really snappy shell . And at this temperature , the good flavor is not very noticeable anyway . What you want to use is cocoa-containing fat glaze . This is the stuff which commercial " chocolate " coated ice cream like the Magnum brand uses . It is sold in supermarkets as " chocolate cake glaze " and similar names , but check the ingredient list to be sure . It should consist of cocoa solids and vegetable fat , possibly some emulsifiers too . You should only melt your glaze , preferably have a low-temperature water bath at your booth ( not full boil ) , and hold the glaze there for dipping . Do n't add milk at all . Milk is a bad choice for chocolate covering anyway . Cream is used for making cake icings called ganache ( mixed with real chocolate , not this glaze stuff ) , but it makes a soft , smeary icing , not a hard , snappy shell . Use the glaze the way it is , without adding anything . This glaze is quite hard at room temperature already . A thin layer of it on a frozen banana should go to below room temperature almost instantly . I think you will have your shell without any special preparation . But I have never done it this way , so I would advise you to experiment . If my hunch is wrong , there still is n't anything you can add - this stuff does n't harden because of anything added , it hardens because at room temperature , it is a hard solid . So your only way to speed hardening is to return the banana to the freezer for a short time . But then you are likely to get a condensation problem , so keep it as short as possible .
While Rudy refers to one excellent resource , it is indeed one which the authors are quite proud of ( $ 450 on Amazon , yikes ) . @Yossarian provides a much better ( more economical source for essentially the same information ) In his first blog post : <URL> . <URL> , from Cooks Illustrated ( Amazon , $ 22.97 ) , accurately describes the coagulation process and heat concerns ( with a slightly different ratio of products ) it great detail beginning on page 952 . In addition to the direct question you pose , " What makes Creme Brulee set ? " to help you with your ' general frustration ' in making Creme Brulee I would recommend this 3 minute video from <URL> . I believe you will find it a useful resource . ( should the link fail : search on YouTube for " Alton Brown Creme Brulee " and you should find the video easily )
I would suggest making a Mornay sauce ( <URL> ) which you should find will hold together well and provide an unctuous , rich , spreadable texture . Simply melt butter in a saucepan over a medium-low heat , whisk in an equal quantity of flour , cook it out a little , then add cold milk , whisking all the while , until you get a smooth sauce like consistency . Then dump in a load of grated parmesan , stir it through , decant to a bowl and cool .
If you want more gravy you need to add more liquids and natural flavours . Better if you have bone but ... no bone : Before you roast your beef sear it , so it has good colour when it comes out , deglaze the pan/baking tray with water/red wine/white wine or Madeira one of me faves and put that to one side . ( in the gravy stock pot ) Add onions , carrots and parsnips in with the beef , and touch of water , olive oil and salt . Do n't go mad with the water you 're not poaching the beef !! Just enough to stop the veg burning - 5mm in the bottom ( top up if needed ) . When the beef is ready ( 55C internal temp = medium rare <URL> ) take it out of the tray , put the root veg to one side and and add the remains to your gravy stock pot . Sear the bottom of the roast with a little oil ( it 'll be a bit soggy from sitting in the veg ) then put it aside to rest ( 5-10 mins if you 're in a hurry 15-30 for 3kg will come out lush ! ) deglaze again adding the resulting jus to your stock pot , which now had a wealth of flavour . Use that stock pot to create a beast of a gravy ! Make it in the usual manner , if you keep the onions in they 'll make it thicker and tastier - a stick blender with give you a smoother texture if that 's what you like !
In the accepted answer to <URL> , it says that you can try wringing the pumpkin purée out in cheese cloth ; or in a comment , that you can let it drain in a colander .
For metal pans , lining them wo n't significantly affect the cooking time -- the reason they cook differently is because of how much radiant heat they reflect . ( dark absorbs , light reflects ) . For a glass pan , however , I would think that if you use aluminum foil , or something light and reflective , that it could make it cook more like a light metal pan , as the issue in the glass pan is that it allows almost all of the radiant heat through without reflecting it . I 've never tested it , though .
Mayo that splits is typically from one of two things : Insufficient water Insufficient mixing leading to large droplets ( It 's hardly ever insufficient emulsifier , as one yolk can do many cups of mayo . ) The lack of mixing can happen fairly easily with a whisk , but it wo n't happen if you 're using a food processor , blender , or immersion blender . You 're probably normally making mayo that is on the border of insufficient water , so it 's fairly easy to get it to break . When you added more water , the emulsion actually became more stable . That explains why you ca n't get it to break , I have a few suggestions on how to fix : Freeze it . It should break upon thawing . If hand-mixed , use an immersion blender on it . That should thicken a little , by better mixing . ( Assuming you 're not using extra virgin olive oil , which should not be blended ) I 'm sure there are some thickeners that could be added , but I 've never tried thickening mayo like this . Keep in mind that some flavors are fat soluble , some are water soluble , so if you discard part of the water , you may be changing the flavor balance .
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
Chocolate is a sol , consisting of solid particles suspended in cocoa butter . It is something similar to a hard emulsion . And it can separate just the way a liquid emulsion does ( think mayonnaise ) . This happens when you melt the cocoa butter completely , so the solid particles separate from the fat . If it happens to a chocolate bar , your chocolate looks grey . If it happens to a bowl of melted chocolate , the chocolate seizes the way you describe it . This happens with both milk and dark chocolate . If you have n't experienced it with milk chocolate before , you either had luck , or your milk chocolate was of a lesser quality than the dark one and contained non-cocoa fats and/or emulsifiers , which change the behavior of the sol . The only way to prevent seizing is to work within the correct temperature zone , which is extremely narrow ( 2-3 ° C ) . Even as an experienced confiseur , it is extremely hard to judge it intuitively . If you insist on trying to watch the chocolate and guess when it is OK , you will have inconsistent results , with a seizing once every few tries . What you need is to get a candy thermometer . Keep it in the chocolate and , whenever the temperature nears the danger zone , put the inner bain marie vessel in a basin of cold water you keep near the stove for this purpose . It will cool rapidly and stay tempered . It is n't a problem if you cool it off so much it hardens again ; you can remelt chocolate as often as you want as long as you never exceed the seizing temerature . And now for the numbers . All kinds of chocolate ( milk , white , bitter ) harden at 27 ° C. Between 27 ° C and 30 ° C , they are soft , but unworkable , because they are too viscous ( hold unpacked chocolate pieces in your hand for a while to see what I mean ) . The workable zone is 30 ° C to 32 ° C for milk ( and white ) chocolate , and 30 ° C to 33 ° C for dark chocolate . Above this , your cocoa fat melts and the chocolate seizes . So , keep an eye at the thermometer , as you see , the zones are narrow . Edit : I just noticed that you call 40 % " bitter " . This is a very low cocoa percentage , and I would n't let it go up to 33 ° C . The numbers for " bitter " are probably safe for 70 % cocoa and above .
An easy way of incorporating a spicy kick into any existing chocolate cake recipe that uses actual chocolate would be to substitute a portion of the called for chocolate ( with a matching chocolate type ; i.e. dark and dark , milk and milk ) that already has cayenne or some other hot pepper ingredient . Of course , you will need to experiment to get the right level of heat . Adding straight cayenne powder while the chocolate is melted , or shredded would also be an ideal time to ensure even distribution of the spice . In the event your recipe does not use an actual chocolate base , but rather something that replicates the flavor , the time to add the cayenne would be when the ' flavor packet ' is added .
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
Many of the commercial yoghurts use stabilizers like <URL> to prevent the yoghurt from separating during transport . All fruits naturally contain pectin ( some more than others ) , so one option , if you are making your own yoghurt at home , is to add some fruit to it . Here in the US , supermarkets carry small bags of dry pectin powder ; if you can get some of that , you could try adding it to your yoghurt . Another option is to initially heat your milk to 85 ° C for a half hour before cooling it and adding your yoghurt starter . This heating serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it gets rid of some of the excess moisture through evaporation , and ( 2 ) the heating will denature ( i.e. , stretch out and relax ) some of the milk 's proteins . Denatured proteins will be able retain more of the liquid that is in the final product . Finally , you can add powdered milk to the mix ( about 125ml of powdered milk per liter of milk ) . Powdered milk is basically just milk protein , so the added protein will help contain some of the final liquid .
Every time I make brownies , I always get compliments on how fudgy they are . There may be some variations based on the recipe you use , but the three things I 've found to be most important in my experience are : Do n't even think about using a boxed/pre-made mix ! Bake from scratch - it adds a whole 3-5 minutes of extra prep time for brownies , but the taste and texture would be worth it even if it added an hour . Use fewer eggs . I use the King Arthur Flour " Grandmother 's brownies " recipe ; I can only find an online copy for the 200th Anniversary edition , but those instructions are n't the same as the older version my mom 's cookbook has . The recipe calls for 2-4 eggs per batch ( a batch is a 9x9 " square pan ) , and instructs you to use more eggs for a cakier brownie , fewer for a fudgier one . I 've found that 3 eggs works best for me . Use brown sugar for at least some of the total sugar in the recipe . The King Arthur Flour recipe calls for 2 cups of sugar , either white or brown . I typically split 50/50 ; the brown sugar adds a nice flavor , and I think the moisture in it helps achieve that fudgy consistency , too . There 's another element to changing the consistency , too : cooking time . Most brownie recipes I 've seen say to bake for 35-45 minutes ; I almost never bake them for more than 30 because I find that the edges start to get really dried out . Undercooking slightly will keep the brownies moist and fudgy . The ingredients from the old " Grandmother 's Brownies " King Arthur Flour recipe : 4 ounces ( squares ) unsweetened chocolate [ can substitute 1-ounce square = 3 tbs cocoa powder + 1 tbs butter ) ; 1/2 cup ( 1 stick ) butter ; 2 cups sugar and/or brown sugar ; 2 to 4 eggs ; 1/2 teaspoon salt ; 2 teaspoons vanilla ; 1 cup flour
Gruyere is DELICIOUS . It melts without getting too gooey or soupy , and it is the traditional cheese component of a <URL> ( if you 're into that ham thing ... ) . You could actually probably use any of the cheeses in that " variations " list , but I love Gruyere so that 's my recommendation . It 's widely available but tends to be kind of pricey here in the US . Brie is also a good choice ; since it is soft to begin with , it melts nicely . ( Just make sure to cut off the rind before putting in the sandwich - that would be a weird texture combo . ) It 's great in grilled or toasted cheese sandwiches because of the richness and slightly buttery flavor . As a local reference , check out <URL> for some tasty ideas ; they do classic grilled cheeses with cheddar , American , gruyere or mozzarella , but they make others that have additions of other non-cheese components .
Some years ago I tried a lemonade in southern Peru . It was very tangy and creamy . I asked the waiter how they made it and he replied that they blended a whole lemon with its peel . The juice was then strained . It was g
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
In general , you can roast peppers to develop a richer flavor . Then skin the pepper and you can use it for salsas , sauces , or just slice/dice it up for a sandwich .
Here is how we made pomme puree at the restaurant I used to work at , for a very well known ( in Canada anyway ) French chef : Peel and boil as many potatoes as you need . Cook until slightly underdone . Run the potatoes through a ricer/food mill . Then -- this is key -- scrape the result through a tami -- a very fine mesh sieve . Most often used for sifting flour . Usually about 14-18 " diameter , looks like a drum . Return resulting potato to a pot , add melted butter , cream , salt , pepper , nutmeg to your desired consistency , stirring all the time . If not serving immediately , chill as fast as possible , and reheat to order in a pan using a little more cream to loosen it up . IMPORTANT : you must work as fast as possible ; the potatoes need to stay hot the whole time or will become gluey .
i am celiac , ideally you should clean your entire kitchen , clean out your silverware and utensil drawers and wash all utensils in the dishwasher . Wipe all surfaces and sinks with bleach wipes . Scrub all pots and pans , to remove gluten films then wash in dishwasher . give all dishes to be used a run through the dishwasher . off limit items are , seasoned pans ( cast iron , or porcelain ) , earthenware , pasta pots , strainers , toasters , cooking stones , wood spoons or utensils , cutting boards , blenders and crockpots . to avoid contamination use fresh mayo , mustard , peanut butter jars , etc. . do not use any ingredients such as sugar that may have been contaminated with flour from use while baking . because you are not familiar with ingredients that contain gluten , use only pure ingredients if you are cooking for your celiac guest . avoid spice blends . <URL> hope this was a bit of help .
Yes , all it is , is flavour . Apple juice and grape juice are 2 things I 've used in the past for non-alcohol people . You can also get away with not using anything as a replacement as long as you use enough of everything else ( butter and parmesan etc ) . Wine just gives a little depth and a sort of ' freshness ' . Edit : I just read the vegetarian part of your question . I 'm assuming you already know , but Parmesan is n't vegetarian , as it is made from rennet ( <URL> ) , and most commonly from the fourth stomach of young calves . The vegetarian substitute 's I 've tried in the past ( Called pasta cheese ) , are not great . However , unlike Parmesan , Gruyere is allowed to be made with vegetable rennet and taste 's great ( I personally prefer it over Parmesan ) .
end question
start question
To par-boil or not to par-boil root vegetables before roasting ?
Parboil if you like your moist ( boiled ) veg to have a bit of color and chewiness . No parboil if you like veg flavor concentrated and texture to be more leathery .
By your definition , I would cook them all at one time . From there you have a couple options . Leave them in the shell and peel when needed . This keeps out a lot of the air which extends the shelf life to 2 weeks , but can dry them out a little making the texture a little harder . Immediately peel and dry them as best as possible . Put them in a Zip Lock along with a dry paper towel on the bottom to catch any extra water and condensation . Remove as much air as possible . The texture is much better , but your shelf life if approx . 1 week and is a little smellier . ( also can put zip lock into a covered container ) Lol . Food stores now sell eggs this way . Either way you may want to let them sit on the counter long enough to take the chill off , so it 's not as hard . For me it does n't matter , I can eat them any old way . LOVE EM !
The reason to par-bake your pie shell is because it would not cook through in the same time that the filling does . So it depends on what type of filling you are going to use . For example , if you are using a traditional short crust with a cream ( custard ) filling , the custard will probably cook faster than the crust would , so you would want to par-bake the shell . On the other hand , for an apple pie with a deep layer of fruit , by the time the fruit is cooked through , the crust usually is too , so par baking is not required . In your specific example , you have not said what the filling is , that you are precooking . However , if it is essentially fully cooked , you could blind-bake your shells then just put them together to heat through for service . You would need to share more details to get more specific advise .
As far as I can see , you do n't defrost the pie before baking in the recipe so some of the time in the oven would just be defrosting the pie ; so this could be done in advance by bringing it out of the freezer an hour and a half before baking say . As the chicken is already cooked it looks like all you 're doing is cooking the pastry so you could just use thinner pastry which would cook quicker , or better you could use layers of phyllo pasty which would cook a lot quicker but of course would n't puff up like the puff pastry . If you follow this it could probably bake for just 25 minutes or there about . Hope this helps !
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
There 's another reason for not boiling liquids , besides the possibility of making a mess ( boiling over ) or ruining it ( scorching , etc. ) . You actually reduce the amount of flavor by boiling . As <URL> : But here 's the deal : when simmering , water is not the only thing escaping . Ever notice how when you come home to a pot of sauce simmering on the stovetop or perhaps a beautiful pot roast braising in the oven , your entire home smells of it ? Guess what : if those flavorful aromatic compounds are reaching your nose , it means they are leaving the pot . So ... if the only goal was to make there be less liquid , boiling 's fine . But if you actually want to concentrate the flavors , you want a slow simmer . The article also goes into more details about reducing alcohol , and some problems with boiling tomato sauce ( which I believe applies to most pectin &amp; other hydrocolloid thickened sauces ) .
I too have that Jamie Oliver book ( try the roast beef then make the Rendang , amazing ) , and you are reading the recipe correctly . There is no problem leaving the skin on providing you 've washed all the soil off . In this recipe it adds to the ' zombie brain ' look , but if you cooking something a bit more refined you might want to take it off so it looks better . Also , many celeriac recipes involved mashing it , in which case taking the skin off aids that process .
The main reason why you want to cut the duck in half and roast them with the skin side pointing upwards is so the skin of the duck is nice and crispy . Unlike most roasted poultry where you do n't eat the skin , the duck 's skin is considered a huge delicacy if it is crispy .
Any of those will work , but you want a rim to prevent any drippings from making a mess in your oven . In general , the lower the sides , the better for overall air circulation around the roast , but it is not essential . If you want to be able to deglaze the pan , avoid the ceramic or glass pan , as they can not be used stove-top . Using celery ( and carrots ) as a make shift roasting stand is very effective . They will add their aroma to the pan juices , which is often a good thing . ( Note that by the time the roast is done , they are usually spent and not worth eating . ) IF you do n't want the flavor from vegetables , any small rack which will fit will work . If you do n't have one , you can improvize one by crumpling up aluminum foil into a long snake shape , and coiling or zig-zagging it on the pan just large enough to fit the roast . For a slow roasted pork shoulder , you could also go without any rack or elevation , at the cost to some small amount of crust development on the bottom . Depending on your desires , this may or may not matter -- when I do an indoor pork shoulder for pulling , I do n't bother with a rack .
One kitchen I used to work in had a dry store that was basically a shed and in winter when the flour would be particularly cold we would always warm the flour before making bread . It always worked beautifully . The thing is you 're looking for the overall best temperature for your dough for the yeast to be active . So it 's no good mixing warmish water with cold flour - your dough temp will keep the yeast sluggish . That was our theory anyway .
I would do two things to make them more palatable . 1 ) Boil the briefly ( 5-10 mins depending on how hard of a veg they are ) in salted water . Something like a tablespoon of kosher salt per 4 quarts water . 2 ) After they are parboiled , I then will saute , simmer , or braise ( depending on the recipe/mood/vegetable ) in a highly flavored sauce or spice mix until they are cooked . So if I was cooking the carrots and ( green/string ? ) beans and wanted to use chili powder I would chop some onion and saute that in olive oil while the other veg parboils . Then , add 1-2 tbls chile powder to the onions ( and maybe some garlic , b/c everything is better w / garlic ) and let those flavors meld while you drain the veg . Once you have the veggies drained add them to the onions and spice w / a bit of liquid ( wine , beer , stock ; maybe 1/2 cup ) and let them cook on low until they are as done as you would like them .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
There is no single universal answer to this question , as it depends on the specific food and outcome desired , but there are a couple of common themes that influence whether starting from cold water or boiling water is the preferred method : Larger foods that need to cook through may overcook on the outside before the inside is cooked , if started in boiling water . For example , potatoes are usually started in cold water so that they cook through to the center . Some foods contain enzymes that will be deactivated at boiling questions , but may act more quickly at lower temperatures . Starting in boiling water would be for when it is desirable that the reactions be inhibited ; starting in cold water facilitates the reactions continuing . Sometimes it is simply for precision to get a repeatable recipe . Boiling water is always the same temperature ( at least for a given altitude ) , so beginning cooking at the boil is reliable and repeatable compared to starting with cold water which may have an unknown temperature curve as it comes up to the boil .
As Sobachatina said , it 's cooked like many grains , and behaves very similar to rice . You could try continuing the steaming method , and if it does not get done by the time all the water has turned to steam , start it with a bit more water . Sobachatina 's suggestion of a tight lid is also worth considering , but pay attention to the pot then , so you do n't get it boiling over . An alternative is to use a boiling method . With or without toasting it first , add 3.5 parts of water to 1 part quinoa . Cook until soft , and put through a sieve to discard the superfluous water . The upside is that , unless you are using too high a temperature , there is no way to burn it .
Yes , you can . The problem is that the potatoes start absorbing water , and you end up with a really runny mash that 's difficult to flavor ( as most people flavor their mash by the addition of flavorful liquids ) . update : There 's a few things that you can do to hold them . The first is to drain the water , and leave the potato bits ( unmashed ) in the pot . If you leave them uncovered , they 'll cool off , but it 'll also let moisture evaporate , which can help to fix some of the problems I mentioned earlier . You do n't want to let them cool off too far , or they 'll not mash up smoothly ; if you 're going to need to hold them for more than 5-10 minutes , put a lid on them . Once it comes time to mash , refresh them with whatever liquid you 're going to add to the mash , warmed . If you 're going to need to hold them a really long time , you have two options ... one is to mash them but intentionally reduce the liquid , and then refresh them with more hot liquid a few minutes before serving . The other is to transfer them to a baking dish after mashing , and put it in a low oven . ( if you rough up the surface , and put it under the broiler right before serving , you can get a crust on it for a bit of variety ) .
Typically veggies are onions , carrots , celery , leeks , garlic , shallots , etc. . Throw in some peppercorns , also , and a <URL> . You can add most other veggies , too , and mushrooms , but avoid adding things that give a strong ( bad ) flavour after cooked for a long time ( broccoli , brussels sprouts , cauliflower , etc. ) .
We do this regularly with regular dishes and fine china . Neither say " oven safe " . My mother has also done it for years . The process is fairly simple : Put our oven on it 's coolest setting ( about 175 ° F or 80 ° C , I think ) Wait for it to reach temperature Turn it off Put dishes in and close the oven . We just stack the dishes . As Joe points out , they 'll warm faster if you do n't stack them . However , I usually do this when I 've got 6-8 dishes , so stack is easier . Be careful when taking the dishes out . They 'll be hot . We 've never had a problem with dishes using this method . However , if you do n't think your dishes will stand getting hot , use your own judgement as there 's a wide variety of quality and materials used in place settings .
It is n't necessary to even thaw bones before tossing them in the water , so long as you 're cooking long enough . With that said , to roast first and then toss in the stock , the goal is to get some browning going ( I 'm assuming your recipe says to roast at a relatively high temp like 400 ) to add some flavor , much like browning the meat at the bottom of a pot for a stew . Tossing them in the oven at 400 degrees for about 30-45 minutes will brown them for you and you 're not too worried about getting the insides cooked ( the core reason to why people do n't try to roast frozen meat ) . Stocks in general is as far from an exact thing as any recipe can go . There was this interesting article talking about all the differences in schools ... <URL> So in conclusion ... it is n't necessary . If you 're a stickler for recipes or you 're trying to duplicate something as close as you can , thaw the bones .
I did this in my restaurant for years , it really does work great . Make your rice in a huge batch , cook it as if you 're planning to eat it then , but then let it cool until handlable . Once it is cool enough , bag it in individual servings and freeze it . Refrigerating cooked rice quickly ruins it , freezing it , however , works great . If your servings are fairly small , snack sized ziplocks work great for this , otherwise use sandwich sized . Make sure you press the air of the bags , I take all of the small bags and seal them together in gallon sized ziplocks to give them one more layer of protection in the freezer . Either with the rice solidly frozen , or at lunchtime ( defrosted , cool rice ) , throw the baggie in the microwave . You do n't even have to open the baggie , when it pops open that 's a sign to check it . It may need a bit of a mix and a few more seconds in the microwave , or it may be done , it just needs to be heated through . The hot rice will be almost indistinguishable from freshly cooked . If you do n't have a microwave , you can drop the sealed baggie into simmering water , or take the frozen or cool rice out of the bag and steam it to heat .
I 've been told that the shiny side should go on the inside for cooking , and the outside for freezing . In other words , do you want to reflect the heat into the food , or away from the food ? However , common sense ( which fails very often ) tells me that with the temperature ranges involved , any benefit is marginal , if it exists at all . The only time it might matter , is if you were trying to warm something up in the sun . Then it might make a difference . EDIT : From The Straight Dope : The truth is that the shiny side is not treated with a dangerous chemical . Mineral oil is used as a lubricant during the rolling process , some trace of which may remain on the finished foil -- but it 's not dangerous . The shiny side is shiny because of the way foil is made . During the last pass through the rolling mill , a double thickness of foil is run between the rollers . The side of each sheet that comes in contact with the polished steel rollers comes out shiny . The other side has a matte finish . <URL> ALSO The official word from the Reynolds aluminum people is as follows : " It makes little difference which side of the Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil you use -- both sides do the same fine job of cooking , freezing , and storing food . There is a slight difference in the reflectivity of the two sides , but it is so slight that laboratory instruments are required to measure it . "
end question
start question
How to save spaghetti squash ?
I have n't specifically tried to save that variety of squash , but I 've had good luck in general holding other varieties of winter squash for a few days by halving , sealing the cut side , and then refrigerating for . A few notes : If you have a large enough knife , just make a single cut through it . Either place it cut-side down on an appropriately sized dish with a flat bottom ( eg , a casserole dish ) , or cover the cut side with plastic wrap ... ( of plastic wrap , then set in the dish , so you do n't accidentally knock off the plastic wrap in the next couple of days ) . When it comes time to use the remaining half , if the cut surface is dry , shave a little off . Clean out the seed cavity when you 're finally going to use it . ( this allows you to scrape back down to moist flesh , and reduce evaporative loss ) How long you can hold it will likely be affected by things like how often you open your frdge . I 've never tried putting in the crisper after wrapping ( as I tend to have too much stuff in there already ) . If you 're looking to get the longest possible strands out of the squash , I think to need to cut it from stem to blossom end ... but that would increase the cut surface area . If that is n't a goal , it 's probably better to cut it across the stem-blossom axis .
Simple : grate it . If you grate the nutmeg using a microplane , it should have a strong , distinctive odor you can smell from a couple feet away . If it does n't , it 's lost its flavor , throw it away and buy new . It 's fairly likely you 're going to end up replacing it . I 've never seen nutmegs get moldy before , and I live somewhere with 80 % humidity . It would have to be stored in some very poor conditions to mold .
You pour in the batter , wait for the underside to be cooked ( some brown patches ) , flip it , then put cheese on the ( browned ) top . With spek ( bacon ) , you do n't need to do this , you can just put the spek into the pan , fry it until done , then pour batter over it , and proceed as normal . Dutch pancakes are fairly thin , so they do n't take very long to cook . Spek wo n't get properly crisp if you pour the batter on it immediately , also because the watery batter cools it down . Apple pieces wo n't burn either , so you can put those in first ( I hate those , they will make your pancake break ! ) .
No , it 's not true . It will not change the way they cook . Noodle cooking times vary by what they 're made out of and by thickness , not by the length of the noodles . The kids and I seem to prefer eating shorter noodles and dodging the hassle of spinning the noodles , but when there 's company over we tend to do it the classic " right " way . No difference in taste .
Here 's something useful to know . A good typical salt level for most savory foods is in the neighborhood of 1 % by weight . So if you know how much your dish weighs in grams , then add 1 % of that in salt and you should be very close to a good result . Adjust down if you are using any ingredients that are already salty , like capers . Adjust up if after the first few times you try this , it is a little light for you . You will also learn how much your salt weighs by volume so soon you can just use a measuring spoon or a pinch instead of weighing the salt .
Although ours rarely lasts for more than a week , we typically just store it in an airtight container with the rest of the cereal . I would imagine the fat could eventually go rancid , so if you need to store it for weeks or months , either refrigeration or freezing should work . You 'll still want the airtight container , however , to prevent any fridge funk from tainting the taste .
Choose Wisely Cookie selection is key . You want to ship cookies that are going to stand up to the journey well . Hard , dry cookies like biscotti or Mexican Wedding Cake cookies ship well . Denser bar cookies , like brownies or blondies , packed well , should also stand up to shipping , and their rectangular shape makes it easier to fit them into the shipping container . Moist , chewy cookies like Snickerdoodles or Chocolate Crinkles may dry out if the shipping time is extended , so only ship them to people you know can receive the shipment quickly . Avoid filled cookies or those that are only at their peak for a day or so , like most sandwich cookies or French macarons ( Coconut macaroons actually ship quite well ) . Avoid any cookie requiring refrigeration . Avoid cookies with small points ( from cookie cutters ) or delicate decorations which may break off during shipping . Packing Optionally , wrap pairs of cookies together back to back , in film wrap . This will help them stay whole , and provide a little extra padding . Pack the cookies well in an airtight container , neither under nor overfilling it ( perhaps using some loose crumpled food safe plastic or aluminum foil to fill any voids in the container , so that the cookies do n't jumble around in the container . Avoid mixing moist and dry cookies in the same container . Use good cushioning such as bubble wrap or packing peanuts when you pack the cookie container into the shipping box . Shipping Ship by the fastest means that is n't prohibitively expensive . Milk Do not include milk in the package . See Also <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
A crisp crepe is less about the recipe and more about the cooking technique . You simply need to leave it a little longer before flipping it , allowing the edges to crisp . A little more oil than usual will help , but it should still only be a thin coating wiped on with a paper towel . To make a thicker crepe , simply use less liquid . You can also look at using alternative flours like buckwheat which alter the texture .
Yes and no ; in smaller quantities ; no problem . If you sit down in the morning and eat bowl daily ; you will cause some serious long term issues . Raw flour is full of lectins and phytates ; which can pose a danger in higher amounts ; damage the lower GI and cause IBS ; other issues Nutrient problems can develop from the raw flour intake at higher amounts Bacteria standpoint ; no problem ; eat away . As the comment mentioned ; some fresh pasta could be harmful because of the raw egg .
If you are simply looking to convert gluten contents then you can certainly always go higher by adding the correct proportion of vital wheat gluten to dough to get the percentage of gluten that you want . However there are many other differences between flour bags in terms of processing . How is the flour ground ? What wheat variety is it from ? Is it white or whole ? There are a lot of variables . I do speak as someone who has found that Gold Medal is perfectly acceptable for all my baking needs and also routinely uses store brand flour . Personally I suggest simply trying whatever flour you want to try ( not including substituting bread for cake or something along those lines , that definitely will cause issues ) and seeing how the recipe goes . Determine if a higher-end flour brand is for you yourself .
If it 's high quality , store it in the refrigerator in an air-tight container and try to use it as quickly as possible so you can enjoy it while it 's fresh . There are always excuses to use loads of parmesan : cheese plates , pasta dinners , fondue , scones , grilled cheese sandwiches , etc. . It should last for 3-4 months in a sealed container in the fridge . As time goes on it will get drier , but that 's to be expected . If you ca n't eat it in time , consider giving some away to a friend . If you wanted , you could freeze it as well , but I would only use it for baking or melting once thawed as some flavor and a lot of texture will be lost .
Clams take about twice to three times as long to cook than mussels . The shells are just so much thicker it takes that long for the heat to get inside . Kinda like trying to cook a 2 inch steak on a grill beside a 1/2 inch steak and expecting them both to be done at the same time . If you want to have both for a meal then do them in seperate pots and mix after or ... pre-cook the clams ( not recommended ) and add them to the mussels when cooking them , so they 'll re-heat ( and get rubbery too probably but I know many a restaurant that does this ... they have no love for the clam ) . Seperate pots is the best way . Enjoy .
On another couple of sites ( <URL> for starters ) I found the answer to this . It appears that mould is expected sometimes in the Pancetta making process and as a general rule of thumb as long as it is n't too green and furry then it should be OK . I 've followed Ruhlman 's advice and dabbed the spots of mould with a vinegar soaked cloth and it wiped straight off and looks fine . My meat was coming up to the end of it 's hanging time anyway so rather than worry about it further I 've refrigerated it . I hope this helps anyone that stumbles across this with the same issue .
If you want something storebought , just get pumpkin puree - it is squash puree , not really even a substitute . Pumpkins are squash , and " pumpkin " is a pretty broad term , covering a lot of winter squash . In fact canned pumpkin is often made with things more similar to butternut squash than what you 'd think of as pumpkin ( jack-o ' - lanterns and all ) . Just make sure you do n't accidentally get some kind of pumpkin pie mix that has spices and maybe other things added . I suppose if you ca n't find that either , you could also look at baby food , since squash is fairly common there . If you really ca n't find anything in the store , though , do n't just give up on the recipe . It really is incredibly easy to make - just cut squash in half , throw in the oven cut side down , bake until it 's soft , scoop it out and mash up a bit . The actual active working time is only a couple minutes , and you 'll probably get much better flavor than you would from canned goods .
Round lo mein noodles look veeeeery similar to spaghetti : Spaghetti Lo mein The biggest difference , ingredient-wise is that dried pasta ( mostly ? ) does not contain eggs and lo mein noodles do . I know that at least once shopping mall food court chinese food place I 've eaten from uses spaghetti for their lo mein . It 's kind of obvious , but it 's not bad . I feel that lo mein typically has a denser , chewier bite than spaghetti . In a pinch , spaghetti will make a tasty noodle dish . It wo n't quite be lo mein , though . My advice would be to try it and see what you think . Be careful to not over-cook your spaghetti .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
The easiest way where I live to get rennet is to buy Junket tablets at the grocery store . If they have it it 's near the ice cream toppings . You can buy it online from the company . It 's very cheap and although not 100 % pure rennet it works just fine for the variety of cheeses I have made . The box of tablets comes with reliable recipes for a variety of cheeses and ice cream . Online cheese making suppliers can sell you " higher quality " rennet that is much more expensive . This may make sense for you - especially if you are buying from them anyway for specialized bacteria or mold to make a particular cheese like swiss , etc. . I ca n't recommend one in particular but they are easy to find . You can make your own . I would n't recommend it . Rennet is an enzyme used by calves to digest their mother 's milk . Historically , when a calf was slaughtered the correct stomach ( I believe the first ) would be chopped up and soaked for some time in water . The stomach was then removed and the water with dissolved rennet would be used to make cheese . If you have access to a calf and have a tougher constitution than I you could certainly try this . Nowadays rennet is mostly recombinantly produced . For those opposed to our genetically-modified-bacteria-friends non-recombinant rennet can be found . Vegetarian rennet derived from vegetables or mold with similar properties is also available . Recombinant is , of course , much less expensive .
This recipe for <URL> has instructions for cleaning them . You can either cut off the heads , or if you choose to retain them : Make a shallow cut along the head , being careful not to cut too deep and puncture the innards . Carefully but firmly pull out everything inside . Cut the head off , turn it inside out and use a knife to scrape away the innards . In both cases , if a small black , triangular beak does not come out along with everything else , then push your finger up through the middle of the body and the beak should pop out . As explained in <URL> , you will want to cook octopus very briefly so it does not get rubbery , or for a long time , to move past the rubbery stage . If , as mentioned in the question , you wish to fry them , the cooking time may be <URL> . Some recipes suggest <URL> per side . For specific recipes , you can google " baby octopus recipe " .
To roast acorn squash , set your oven to 350 and roast for about 30-35 minutes . I normally roast cut side up , unless I am using some kind of sauce to go with it . I find that the squash cooks to a more even color than when you place it directly against a metal pan which can develop diffrent temps across the surface . You can also baste with some butter as long as it is face up , which is pretty good .
end question
start question
What does al dente really mean ?
" Al dente " is used to refer to food cooked so it is still " firm to bite " but not soft This is very important to pasta which should be removed from the cooking liquid just before it has fully cooked through , as like most foods , it will continue to cook after being removed from the heat source Always gently stir your pasta every minute or so while cooking to ensure it cooks evenly . Then near the end of the cooking time , bite into a piece of paste every 15 seconds or so to see if it has nearly cooked through . It should be firm to bite , and not soft all the way through . It should not resist biting though With some pasta types like Penne etc. you can sometimes actually see the uncooked inner layer ( a thin white line ) if you carefully slice it in half which a knife , or just bite cleanly with your teeth If the pasta is going to be mixed into a hot liquid sauce before serving , take the pasta out of the cooking liquid at an even firmer point The term " al dente " can be used for all cooked foods that should be cooked to just before soft , and then served ( fresh greens , thin meat cuts etc. ) The reason for all of this is that there have been many flavour and nutrition benefits noted when cooking to this point . Also for pasta it tends to fall apart if cooked past " al dente "
As with all can goods , as long as the can has no physical defects ( meaning swollen or dented , ectera ) , the contents should still be good . The date on the outside is mainly a best by date , after which a company will no longer vouch for the contents contained therein .
Those are the <URL> -- muscle meat , not organ meat . I 'm glad you 've learnt to enjoy them by intuition , as they are indeed a prized portion of the chicken . Wikipedia tells me the French call this portion <URL> : " ( only ) a fool leaves it there " , because it is little known , easily missed , and much prized .
Marinated tofu is essentially a myth perpetrated by well-meaning people who are , in my experience , culturally pretty far removed from cuisines where tofu is heavily used . Tofu is not especially porous , because it 's texturally very similar to a custard . Maybe osmotic pressure will result in a little flavor transfer to a custard , but it 's not the most efficient way to do it . Marinades are pretty rarely used for tofu in Asia in my experience . You 're more likely to see pan sauces or dipping sauces , or occasionally a topping added after cooking . But people in Japan , China , and Korea will generally expect a much fresher , beanier tasting tofu than you 're likely to find in a US supermarket , so there 's not as much of an impulse to cover up the flavor . In the US , thanks to generous expiration dates and a fairly unpicky customer base , a lot of tofu sold in supermarkets is slightly soured and just does n't taste very good . The primary effect of the dry frying technique on the page that you linked to will be to create a bunch of nooks and crannies and irregularities at the surface of the tofu that will make more of the sauce stick to the surface of the tofu , and the reduced water content will make it less likely for the tofu to break apart . The higher surface area may contribute to the perception of more flavor because you 'll have more of whatever salty solution you 've seasoned it with on your tongue . But inside the tofu you wo n't really get much additional flavor . Freeze-dried tofu removes most of the water from tofu and small holes form where water had previously been . When rehydrated and squeezed , you 'll be able to get a lot of a marinade to enter the tofu because there 's plenty of ways to get in there . The side effect is that the texture will be completely transformed into a sort of spongy mass , which can be pleasant on occasion but eventually gets a little tedious , so freeze-dried tofu is eaten only rarely and in small quantities in Japan and most of China . It 's frequently seen in lamb hot pots in China and occasionally in rustic simmered dishes in Japan . You can come close to the texture by actually freezing your tofu and then pouring boiling water over it a few times , but I usually just buy it from my local Japanese market . One form of marinated tofu sometimes seen in China involves very aggressively pressed/weighted tofu that 's been pushed between a muslin-like cloth for an extended period to drain . It 's often soaked or cooked in a soy and sugar solution with various spices , but most of the flavor and color is concentrated near the surface ; only some of the salt really seems to get to the center of that , so it 's often made in fairly thin blocks . I 've seen patted and pan-fried tofu used in Korea and occasionally in Japan , but it was typically not marinated ; it was typically cooked in a little oil until lightly browned and served with a dipping sauce of freshly-grated ginger and soy sauce . Deep-fried tofu also creates more surface area for sauces , especially if dusted with a starch like katakuriko or cornstarch , but it 's also generally only an occasional indulgence in Japan , China , and Korea , and also mostly affects capturing flavor that touches the surface of the tofu . ( I 'm less knowledgable about food as served in Southeast Asia , including Vietnam and Thailand , so I ca n't speak as authoritatively for all countries with a long history of serving tofu ) . I do n't know if it works well , but a Japanese TV show suggested that you can soak tofu in salted water to reduce the tendency for soft tofu to fall apart when stir-frying or braising . I have n't seen enough of a difference to justify regularly applying this technique and I have n't done a side-by-side comparison to be sure that it actually has much of an impact . But based on the guidance from that show , I suspect that if the marinade has any effect on structural integrity of the tofu , it 's due to salt and osmotic pressure .
Since I 'm not an expert in Indian cuisine , I ca n't say this for certain , but I agree with the comments so far that this seems basically equivalent to the separation of the oil from the curry . To my mind , the wording makes perfect sense , because in some cases with a lot of oil/butter , you can get separation happening early on the pan 's edges . Oil tends to float on top , and usually the center of a pan is heated more strongly over a burner . Thus , you tend to get boiling/bubbling in the center , which tends to push any floating oil toward the edges . But these recipes are not looking for that small amount of oil along the edge ( which , depending on stirring and the thickness of the curry , can stay there through much of the cooking process ) . They are specifically waiting for the time when separation increases and fat appears floating on the surface even away from the edges of the pan .
The antioxidants in blueberries lie in the berries themselves , not in the pesticides residing on their skin . Washing them before freezing means that water freezes on the outside . The water crystals puncture the skins of the berries , changing the texture .
Use only good beef , salt and pepper . The beef should be a good fatty cut , with a ratio of 80 % meat , 20 % fat . Chuck is ideal . Any good butcher should grind it to order for you . You need to keep the ground meat as cold as possible , to prevent the fat melting out of it before you cook it . Do not salt the beef prior to shaping , just use pepper . Shape your burgers , then put them in the fridge for a couple of hours . Generously salt the outside of the burgers about 1 hour before cooking . Get a good pan ( preferably a cast iron griddle ) really , really , really hot . Brush one side of the burger with vegetable oil , then slap it on the grill . DO NOT PRESS IT WITH THE SPATULA , EVER . You squeeze out all the juice . Turn the burger and cook the other side . Timing will depend on how you like your burger . A good way of testing doneness is to insert a thin metal skewer into the centre of the burger from one side ( not the top ) , leave it for a few seconds , then take it out and touch it carefully to your lip . If it 's hot , it 's just about done . Or if you have a good digital thermometer , use that .
Couverture chocolate is generally used in coating and molding because it has such a nice sheen due to its high cocoa butter content . It 's usually very high quality and so should taste very good straight out of the bag , although the texture will be more creamy than non couverture chocolates . Couverture is not better than other high quality chocolate , just for a specific application . You wo n't find much chocolate candy made from it , that 's not because the chocolate is n't good stuff , it simply that the effect the makers intend requires a lower level of cocoa butter . As for how to tell good quality chocolate from poor quality the best way to tell is to taste it .
First off , chill it in the refrigerator overnight . Preferably in the coldest part of the refrigerator ( the bottom ) . After that put it in the freezer just long enough to get stiff enough to slice thinly , but do not let it completely freeze . The initial chill will help keep any ice crystals that form inside the cells small , thus decreasing the risk of the meat getting mushy .
There is no single answer to that question : it is going to vary program by program . Some shows , like America 's Test Kitchen , are going to be quite precise -- at at least , they will intend to be . Other shows , not naming any names , less so . The thing is , with very very few exceptions , you should not be cooking to time anyway . The time in a recipe is just a guideline so you have some expectation for logistical planning , and to know when to start testing . Quality recipes -- and quality television shows giving you recipes -- should always give a test for when a food is done . This can vary from " pulls away from the side of the pan " for brownies , to " pulls apart easily with a fork " for a braised pork shoulder , to " internal temperature of 135 F " for a roast . Even for shows that intend to give you very good time estimates , testing is still important , because there are many variables that effect how long it takes food to cook . For something as simple as a steak , the starting temperature of the steak , the thickness of the steak , the starting temperature of the pan and its thermal mass , and the power and setting of your burner ( hob ) will all effect how long it takes the steak to finish . You probably do n't have the same room temperature as the test kitchen where the recipe was developed , the same stove , the exact same settings , and the same thickness of steak . Such variables apply to almost all recipes . The test is what tells you when to stop cooking ; the time is only an estimate . As an aside , the few things that must be cooked to time are those that are 1 ) uniform in size and cooking properties ; and 2 ) foods for which it is difficult or impossible to observe the effect of the cooking directly . The only two examples I can think of that are appropriate are cooking eggs in the shell , and roasted peanuts in the shell .
It 's not the mushrooms that are important , it 's the " crowding " -- basically , you do n't want so much food in the pan at once that the bits are packed tightly , or in more than one layer . This is especially important for items that give off a lot of water as they cook ( like mushrooms ) , or that you 're trying to get to crisp up , as you want to leave space for the moisture to evaporate and escape without causing the food to steam .
I 'll leave the question of food safety and mandatory canning or not with regard to ingredients to others , but frankly , if you have a large pot in your kitchen you have a canner . For small batches and only very occasional use , there is no need to buy a separate canner . Place a small metal rack ( if you have one small enough ) or a folded towel on the bottom of the pot ( I like to use my pasta pot with the insert ) , put jars on top and fill with water until almost to the top of the tallest jar . Yes , you can process jars of different sizes in one batch . Rule of thumb : cold jars go in cold water , hot jars in hot water . This setup is equivalent to a separate canner minus the extra gadgets like timer , thermometer / thermostat and other features that are for your comfort and ease of use , not essential for the physical process of heating and sealing the jars . So if you want to play it safe , put your sauce in the jars1 , add lids and screw them on with the bands " fingertip tight " . Place them in the water bath and slowly bring to a boil . Once your water is simmering , " canning time " starts . Off the cuff , ten to fifteen minutes should be fine for a cooked BBQ sauce , longer is n't a problem either . After that , lift the jars out and cool slowly in a drought-free area . If done correctly the lid will stick to the jar even without the bands , so you get an extra safety mechanism : If your sauce should spoil , the lid will come off , being a clear indication of trouble . But my main reason why I suggest canning the jars is this : If you ship your sauce , you have no control over the storage conditions of your jars during transit and - depending on the destination - constant refrigeration or similar might not be possible everywhere on this world . That alone would be reason enough to do the extra step , which is surprisingly easy once you give it a try . I suggest leaving the rings on during shipping and instructing the recipient to remove them on arrival to notice any signs of spoilage . 1 This includes the usual steps done even without canning , e.g. cleaning the jars and lids , " sterilizing " them in your oven or in boiling water , keeping the rims of the jars clean and filling the hot food immediately into the jars . In short , what you would normally do to ensure general cleanliness and food safety .
The US Code of Federal Regulations ( 21 CFR 101.4 ) states that ingredients must be listed in descending order of predominance based on weight . The following exception is made in 21 CFR 101.4 ( 2 ) : The descending order of predominance requirements of paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) of this section do not apply to ingredients present in amounts of 2 percent or less by weight when a listing of these ingredients is placed at the end of the ingredient statement following an appropriate quantifying statement , e.g. , " Contains __ percent or less of _ " or " Less than _ percent of __ . " The blank percentage within the quantifying statement shall be filled in with a threshold level of 2 percent , or , if desired , 1.5 percent , 1.0 percent , or 0.5 percent , as appropriate . No ingredient to which the quantifying phrase applies may be present in an amount greater than the stated threshold . Thus , each ingredient is 2 % or less of the total weight . They are also exempt from the order by weight requirement . The manufacturer is free to order the subset of < 2 % ingredients however they please . Source : <URL>
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
The advertised reason is that the alcohol will cut some of the protein chains resulting in a fondue that is dippable and not so stringy . Obviously the alcoholic beverage of choice will also add a lot of cheese-compatible flavor as well . Fondue recipes that do n't include alcohol universally call for acid to achieve a similar effect .
Flour or starch binds moisture in the cheesecake . If you use it or not depends on your recipe , the total amount of liquid and the other binding ingredients like eggs . Using flour can leave an aftertaste , especially if not fully cooked . I recommend using the more neutral starch ( corn starch , potato starch ) instead . As a rule of thumb , adding starch or flour can make the cheesecake denser and more solid , leaving it out makes for a softer mouthfeel . Disclaimer : I am not saying that you can leave it always out , lest you come back and blame me if your cheesecake does n't set properly . If you have a recipe that seems quite solid , you could experiment with less or no flour next time , likewise a recipe that is too runny can benefit from a tablespoon or two of starch .
Deglazing removes caramelized bits ( the " browned " bits ) from the bottom of your pan or skillet after cooking meats or vegetables . It is usually accomplished by putting stock , sauce , wine , or even water ( or really any liquid ) in the pan over heat after the pan has been emptied of whatever was cooked into it and any rendered fat and scraping the browned bits into that sauce with a spatula . The browned bits dissolve into your liquid to create an excellent sauce for whatever you just cooked in the pan .
The smell is of rancid fats in the flour . It is a very distinct smell , but hard to describe . I would agree that " sour " is part of it . The best way to learn is by comparison . Smell some fresh , clean flour and remember what it is like . Any kind of unpleasant odor than that is rancidity . You may have smelled it also if you opened a box of cereal that has been around too long , or even poppy or sesame seeds - anything with fats that sits around at room temp will eventually go rancid .
" Folding " is a more gentle mixing technique than " stirring " and " mixing " . Stirring and mixing both denote a more vigorous action . Folding is usually used for items where something has previously been whipped ( such as egg whites or cream ) or where tenderness is desired and thus less mixing is advisable ( muffins &amp; biscuits ) . Folding is usually done with a rubber spatula ( for liquid &amp; dry ingredients ) or with a wire whisk ( often beneficial for whipped cream and egg whites so that the mixture gently incorporates as it falls through the wires ) . To " fold " ingredients together : Hold the spatula or whisk in your dominant hand and grasp the far edge of the bowl ( side that is away from you ) with your non-dominant hand . Turn the bowl towards you with your non-dominant hand while simultaneously scraping around the edge ( also toward you ) and finish by folding the mixture over on top of itself . Return both hands to the far side of the bowl and follow-up by cutting through the center of the mixture with your utensil and once again folding the mix over on top of itself ( again , turning the bowl simultaneously ) . Alternate scraping around the side and through the middle of the bowl until the mixture is just combined together . Note that if an airy mixture such as egg whites or whipped cream start to go from soft and billowy to more liquid-like , you are overworking it and need to stop to maintain volume . In the case of whipped cream and egg whites you typically add a small portion to the heavier mixture and actually DO stir this in . While yes you 're losing some of the volume of that portion , it serves to help lighten the heavier batter/mixture . The rest of the whites/cream are then folded in to the mix in several additions . Sometimes dry ingredients may be sift on top of whipped eggwhites before being folded . The larger the spatula or whisk , the fewer strokes that will need to be made and the better the results will be .
If by going bad you mean becoming unsuitable for consumption due to toxicity , sugar , when stored properly , does not go bad for at least a few years . By storing properly I mean storing it in conditions of low humidity , as it absorbs humidity ( water ) from the air . This property is called hygroscopy . However , it may lose some of its mechanical properties , form " rocks " , or even solidify into your sugar container . Theoretically very wet sugar can get infested with mold , but I have not seen it happen .
end question
start question
How do you keep chicken breast juicy when grilling ?
Brining is great to begin with . Use a bone-in , skin on chicken breast . Once it 's done you can remove the skin and carve off the bone if you like . Also , set up 2 heat zones in your grill ( either by banking your coals or by turning off a gas burner ) . Brown it for a few minutes over the hot zone , then transfer to the cooler zone to finish cooking , until temp comes to 165-170 degrees . Then remove from heat and wait at least 5 minutes to slice .
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
If you <URL> , you will find many , many recipes and descriptions . The basic idea is that you use a half-empty beer can as stand for the chicken , placing the chicken 's cavity on top of the can before roasting or grilling . The idea is that the aroma from the beer will transfer to the chicken , and the steam will help keep it moist . You can even buy commercial racks to do the same thing without the beer can . My personal opinion is that both of these ideas are bunk : Very few if any aromatic molecules will transfer to the chicken , and even if they do , they will not penetrate past the surface The steam will not keep the chicken moist , as the dryness of the meet is essentially a function only of the temperature to which you cook it , and very little else . If the chicken is cooked to too high a temperature , then the proteins will tighten up and express water making the chicken tough , rubbery , and dry tasting . The minimal amount of steam can not change this fact .
Yes , it is true that we do n't add oil to the boiling water . I 'm not aware of any good reason to waste extra-virgin olive oil that way ! Some oil is always added at the end , over the sauce , when the pasta is already in the plate ! It has to be raw , so that it retains its fruit nuances and texture . If you are doing cold pasta salad and want to avoid sticky pasta , adding oil in advance wo n't help . You have instead to wash pasta under cold water to wash the starch away ( you can put the pasta in the colander directly under the running cold tap ) .
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
A thermometer is the only way to be sure . For methods with a consistent level of heat ( stove , oven ) , you should able to learn the average cooking time , and outwards cues of color and texture that match the right internal temperature . Remember that these will vary with cooking method and temperature . Internally , the meat should look opaque and white . These are CUES of doneness , not guarantees . Use the thermometer . For methods with inconsistent levels of heat ( bbq , campfire ) , wait until it looks nearly done and then check with the thermometer . Err on the safe side . Prepared properly , chicken is a lot more forgiving of overcooking than steak .
Do n't wrap the chicken in foil . Instead you can use a steamer basket inserted in a pot with the lid on ( making sure your liquid does not touch the chicken ) and steam it that way . If you do n't have a steamer basket and what you are trying to do is replace one , instead of wrapping the chicken roll that foil into balls or strips and use it to elevate the chicken above the cooking liquid in your pot . If you wrap in foil , the chicken will be cooking via the heat transfer from the foil rather than from the steam .
In <URL> , Lorenzo notes that steaks may end up raw in the center if you only leave 'em out for 10-15 minutes to come up to temperature . I recommend 30 mins , but it will probably vary on what room temperature actually is for you . From Weber 's Way To Grill , which recommends salting right when you take them out of the fridge , here 's Mr. Purviance 's take on why you should consider salting early : It 's true that salt draws moisture toward itself , but over the course of 20 to 30 minutes that 's a good thing , because the salt begins to dissolve into that little bit of moisture . When the steak hits the hot grate ... [ you ] create a delicious crust . Any moisture you might lose is well worth the flavor of that crust .
If you have a metal strainer then I Fill a large pot with water . Just enough so it almost comes up to the bottom of the strainer when you place it on top . Insert the strainer so it is balanced above the water . Fill strainer with vegetables and cover with a lid Boil Take off when the vegetables are steamed to your specifications Enjoy
Folding a burrito is serious business . Get it wrong and you 'll end up dumping most of the contents all over the place and look like a burrito noob . Get it right and your hands and plate will be perfectly clean , and you 'll no longer be hungry . Beware : publicly flaunting these skills might lead to people wanting you to fold their burritos for them . General Tips First off : make sure your tortilla is ready to be folded . A cold or dried out tortilla is likely to crack or split . Use a warm and moist tortilla . Second : do n't overfill the tortilla . If you have small tortillas do n't try to make a giant burrito and expect that to work . How to fold Now that we have the basics out of the way let 's get to folding . See <URL> ( which I 've converted into an image here ) : Place the contents in the approximately center of your partially folded tortilla . Leave plenty of room on the ends otherwise you 'll most surely have food spilling out once it 's folded up . Hold the filled tortilla so the weight of the filling pulls it tight . If your burrito busts through now , it will certainly burst later . If not , proceed to step 2 . Fold one end towards the center . Fold the other end over . Roll the bottom ( the end nearest you ) up towards the top . This is n't the intuitive way , but it 's the right way . Make sure not to let the food squeeze out . I hold it with my fingers at the crease where the bottom edge that 's been folded up meets the food . Keep rolling it up . Om nom nom .
This does n't answer your question directly , but spices are only a small part of the picture . Below are some techniques to get more flavor in your soup . Longer Cooking Depending on the type of soup you 're making , you may just need more time . Some flavors just need more time to get out . This is especially true of meat and bones . It 's possible to make a ham and pea soup in an hour , but simmer that ham for 3 hours and it 's night and day . Rest overnight Many stews , chili , etc. seem taste " better " the next day . Give an overnight rest in the fridge a shot and see if the flavor improves . Add volatile flavors later There is a caveat to go along with longer cooking . Some items work over long cooking times , while others lose flavor . In addition to meat/bones , garlic , onion , bay leaves ( and others ) benefit . Many fresh herbs , pepper , vanilla , saffron ( and others ) lose their flavor from the heat . If you are cooking for a while , you might try adding some more volatile flavors later in the process . Add salt early Salt helps to extract flavors , so add it early on in the process . Do be judicious with it , however . Long cooking tends to concentrate flavors , so you can easily make it too salty . Sweat vegetables / brown meat Before getting any water involved , sweat your onions , celery , peppers , mushrooms , or whatever vegetables or playing in this game . Likewise , brown your meat . The maillard reaction is necessary for developing great flavor from the meat .
Optimal texture is about optimal heat transfer . When a vegetable releases so much water that it simmers in its own juices instead of pan-roasting , you should increase the heat transfer . To achieve that , you need to 1 ) use high heat , 2 ) not overcrowd the pan , and 3 ) use a pan which is capable of better heating . Cast iron is perfect for these situations , heavy steel pans too . Aluminium is much harder to work with , especially if it 's thin . Also do n't use a nonstick pan , you 'll destroy the coating at the temperatures needed . This technique can be used on its own , or combined with something else , for example oven drying . But note that a zucchini is over 90 % water , so you wo n't be able to simply get it dry enough to resemble a dough noodle .
Biscuits are notorious for that ; they 're best eaten right away . If you want to preserve their original texture longer than 12 hours ( yes , that short of a time ) , your best bet is to freeze them as soon as they are cool and eat them within a month or two . Wrap them as air-tightly as possible . You can pop the frozen biscuits in a moderate oven or unwrap and give them an hour or so on the counter to defrost , then warm them . Either way , it 's best to serve them warm , they will seem softer and fresher that way . If you 've found a recipe you like and think you might want to make them frequently , mix the dry ingredients for multiple batches . If you can weigh the dry mix that you have just mixed , then you 're golden . You can make as many or as few biscuits as you want anytime just by using the same proportion of dry , fat and liquid as the original recipe . You can easily make a single biscuit that way or feed a crowd .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
Even with a whole bulb , break it into cloves . Put clove ( s ) on a cutting board . I usually cut off the root end of each clove . Lay a large chef 's knife flat on the clove , then smack the knife to crush the clove . This breaks the skin of the clove and makes it much easier to peel .
The problem is that you 're using a lid . Spatter screens keep the oil mostly contained , while still allowing any moisture to escape . A lid , on the other hand , collects the moisture on the underside of the lid . When you go to lift it , the water drops back into the oil , and causes increased spattering . You 're actually better off without a lid , if you do n't have a spatter screen . Yes , you 'll likely have to clean everything in the vicinity of the vessel of hot oil , but you do n't have the problems associated with the lid .
With thin cuts of meat ( like chicken breast or a steak ) , you want to make sure you put the thermometer in to the thin side of the meat so that the whole thermometer goes in to the meat , rather than putting it in through the " top " so that only a little of the thermometer is in the meat . If you 're putting it in the top , you can get wildly inaccurate temperatures . Also make sure that the thermometer is n't touching a pan , exposed to air , or touching a bone . Any of those can have a negative effect . Also , you only need to cook chicken to 74C / 165F . That may be part of the problem in your case . You may also want to check that your thermometer is accurate . You can stick it in boiling water to check that it reads 100C / 212F ( assuming of course it goes up that high ) .
In my somewhat limited experience you have two things that affect growth of the crispy ears . As Caleb mentions using a lame to score your bread means you can cut with a bit of an angle that will promote a little flap . The second is ensuring a rapid oven spring , which will cause the flap to open as much as possible before the starches on the surface set . The key to good oven spring is having a hot enough oven ( preheat longer than you think you need to if you are using a stone or other heat-storing vessel in the oven ) , and a source of steam injection . A few ways to do get some steam : When you put the dough in , pour a 1/2 cup of boiling water into a small cast iron skillet pre-heated in the oven . Spritz the walls of the oven with water when you put the dough in . My favorite - preheat a large dutch oven , and put the dough inside the dutch oven ( lid on ) to bake . For the last 10 minutes of the bake , remove the lid . The dutch oven stores some of the initial steam release and makes for much nicer spring and crusts . Of course , only round bread fits .
Fill a basin or hotel pan with water . Place in your smoker . Ensure the smoker heat is set below 100C/212F ( adjust as necessary for distance above/below sea level ) . Um ... smoke . An hour should do fine . More if you want more . Optionally strain through a superbag or muslin to remove any deposited particulate matter .
Have you tried using a marshmallow recipe that is only made from gelatin and cooked sugar syrup ( sugar , water , and light corn syrup to soft ball stage , 240 degrees F ) ? I have made various piped marshmallows that will hold swirly shapes using this type of marshmallow recipe . It is a bit more stable than the egg based recipes . The most important thing is to make sure that the marshmallow mixture is whipped to a nice fluffy , shiny , smooth stage ( about 7-10 minutes on high speed ) and piped very quickly into whatever form you want before it sets up using a large round tip . Timing is of utmost importance here and you may lose some marshmallow during this process at home . I would also recommend piping onto a silpat ( silicone ) lined sheet tray or a piece of wax paper that has been lightly dusted with a mixture of cornstarch and confectioner 's sugar .
end question
start question
When " sorting " lentils , what exactly am I looking for ?
It is not unheard of for small pebbles , or pieces of the pod the lentils came in to find their way into the drying process . There is also occasionally a lentil ( or bean ) that was a bit dodgy before it was dried . These usually appear as discolored lentils , which should be thrown away . It is rare for more than three or four to appear in a pound of lentils though , and the drying means that one bad one does n't affect the rest . The same is true for beans and chickpeas too , but is rarer the larger the beans get .
Beer Can Chicken has a few tricks to have it turn out amazing as opposed to just average . I always take my thawed chicken and rub it all over inside and out with vegetable oil and pureed garlic ( about one large clove ) . Then I coat the skin with seasonings like salt , pepper , seasoned salt or chicken/poultry seasoning like sage or an \ Italian mix ; you can use anything the you want . Cajun spice and lemon are also pretty good . The beer has to have some flavour to it , do n't use a light beer . Apple ciders ( strong bow , perry 's pear cider , black thorne ) or a white wine/cooking cherry will also do the trick . I use a half a pop/beer can and then stuff the chicken and the bottom tray with onions , red peppers , garlic and celery . The key to crispy skin and moist chicken is low heat on the BBQ , turn one side onto medium heat and put the chicken on the off side with the lid closed for 20 minutes per pound of chicken . Practice makes perfect ... chicken .
An espresso machine usually needs to push water at somewhere between 8 and 15 bar pressure , which is quite a lot . And since it is the high-pressure components that are key to how they work , it is the quality and durability of these that tends to set the price point . The quality of the pump varies from a device intended to be used for two or three cups once a week , all the way to professional machines designed to produce thousand of cups a day , month after month . This is why domestic machines are usually quite clear that they are for domestic use only : they simply can not cope with the duty cycle of any more than that . Many domestic espresso machines will turn themselves off if they are used to make too many cups in one session - quite simply , they overheat . It sounds like one you bought is one intended for occasional use . My advice is to visit a couple of retailers that have staff dedicated to selling espresso machines . They will , of course , try to sell you " their " brand , but they will also recognise when someone needs a domestic unit designed for daily use as opposed to one just for special occasions . As a bonus , you generally get what you pay for with espresso machines . The more expensive domestic ones usually really do last much longer .
Salt is added at the beginning , because it takes long time to dissolve . Also , it 's maybe less important for bolognese , but you want your veggies to get infused with salty water , the taste is different from bland vegetables swimming in water salted late . Last but not least , salt 's chemical properties are important for the cooking of some dishes . The stuff which depends on volatile aroma molecules ( practically all fresh herbs ) is added at the end , after the sauce ( or stew ) is removed from the heat , because lots of the compounds are destroyed by heat , and while the flavour is still discernible , it is diminished . On the other hand , if you are using dried herbs , their most fragile molecules have long since disappeared in the air . The flavours which remain in the dried leaves are sturdier and not easily loosened from the plant matter . So by adding dried herbs early enough to allow for some simmering , you can leach more of these out of the leaf ( you are practically steeping it in the sauce ) . But if you cook them for too long , even these molecules can get damaged . Plus , there were some herbs which release unpleasantly bitter alkaloids after too long a steeping ( I do n't remember if your three are among those , but I would suspect the basil may be , as it is prone to producing off-tastes ) . So add them ~ 5 minutes before turning the heat off . Spices are a bit of a boundary case . Although dried spices do n't taste the same as fresh ones , grinding them still releases volatile molecules . So I tend to add them at the end , like fresh herbs , and I 'll advise you to do so too ( using peppercorns in a grinder ) . If I use spices which were bought pre-powdered , I throw them in earlier or together with the dried herbs .
There are several reasons for adding orange juice : The first is for flavor . The second is to act as an acid . Although in this particular case , the acid is already in the baking powder . All baking powder needs to act as a leavening agent is some kind of liquid . Unless you meant baking soda , in which case an acid is necessary for leavening . The third is to inhibit mold growth . The real reason vitamin C is added is as a dough enhancer , not for gluten development . Since this is a quick bread ( no yeast ) , gluten development is not a main concern . The fourth reason for the orange juice is to make a tender crumb . Because of the fructose found naturally in it . Sugars are added to baked goods as a tenderizing agent . This recipe sounds yummy !
From Greenfootsteps ' " <URL> " : Pick elderberries when they are fully ripe in early autumn . The bunches should be starting to droop downwards with the weight of the fruit . Use a fork or your fingers to gently prise the fruit away from the stalks . This can be a bit fiddly but you do n't have to be too perfect with it - a few bits of stalk will not matter .
The idea of a " fast " oven comes from the time when wood-burning stoves without temperature gauges were the most common ones in kitchens . A fast oven is anywhere from 400-425 & deg ; F. Conversion to Fahrenheit Very slow ( very low ) oven : 300-325 & deg ; F. Slow ( low ) oven : 325-350 & deg ; F. Moderate ( medium ) oven : 350-375 & deg ; F. Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 375-400 & deg ; F. Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 400-425 & deg ; F. Various " modern " cookbooks that attempt to explain these terms will often give different temperatures , but the degree of difference is n't usually that great ( usually about 25 degrees in either direction ) ; what was a fast oven to one cook may only have been a moderate oven to another . A " pastry , " " bread , " or " bread-baking " oven generally refers to a temperature range of 360-380 & deg ; F. ( Rounded ) Conversion to Celsius Very slow ( very low ) oven : 150-160/170 & deg ; C. Slow ( low ) oven : 160/170 -180 & deg ; C. Moderate ( medium ) oven : 180-190 & deg ; C. Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 190-200 & deg ; C. Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 200-220 & deg ; C. Conversion to Gas Marks Very slow ( very low ) oven : 2-3 Slow ( low ) oven : 3-4 Moderate ( medium ) oven : 4-5 Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 5-6 Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 6-7 <URL> ( For Use with Dutch Ovens and Charcoal ) Slow ( low ) oven : 6-8 briquettes below / 12-16 on lid Moderate ( medium ) oven : 8-10 briquettes below / 16-18 on lid Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 10-12 briquettes below / 18-24 on lid
Should be fine to eat , from a food safety perspective . The heat will be high enough to prevent bacterial growth . I ca n't speak to the flavor , of course . Edible is a matter of opinion . Goodness knows we 've all eaten our culinary screwups that nobody else would touch at least once .
In freezing , it is mostly the bursting of the cell walls as the ice crystals expand . Much like a water balloon holds its shape when it is intact , but becomes flaccid when punctured , so to the cell walls comprising the vegetable . See related , for why a similar thing happens when you cook spinach : <URL> Cooked vegetables are already soft and their metaphorical balloons partially deflated . It is not going to get a lot worse for the freezing . The par cooking is mostly disable enzymes which would change the color of the vegetable to dull olive drab , or negatively affect the flavor . See : <URL>
They do change color , just not so obviously as normal bananas . There 's a slight greenish tint that disappears as they ripen , and the red becomes a bit deeper ( some people say purplish ) . They also get softer - including the skin getting more tender , just like yellow banana skin . Just think about how bananas feel when ripe , feel your red bananas , and ( perhaps with a tiny bit of trial and error ) you can figure it out .
To make a perfect burger in the kitchen , a hot cast-iron skillet is your best friend . To keep from making a mess , use one of these : That 's a <URL> . It allows air to move freely , but keeps grease in the pan and off of your walls . EDIT : In comments , Cindy Askew recommended the above plus using the cheapest available aluminum foil to protect surrounding areas from the grease and noted that the aluminum foil used in that way can continue to be useful as a disposable spoon/utensil rest . In a sense , this answer being accepted encompasses that comment as a part of this answer .
The smell is of rancid fats in the flour . It is a very distinct smell , but hard to describe . I would agree that " sour " is part of it . The best way to learn is by comparison . Smell some fresh , clean flour and remember what it is like . Any kind of unpleasant odor than that is rancidity . You may have smelled it also if you opened a box of cereal that has been around too long , or even poppy or sesame seeds - anything with fats that sits around at room temp will eventually go rancid .
Almost certainly : <URL> . I 'd go with the ' porridge ' or ' brown rice setting ' if your cooker has it . Concensus on water ratio seems to be about same as for rice . Here 's a question which lists <URL> . With a quality cooker , you can also make baked beans and tasty onion soup .
Preheating is mainly needed for breads and anything that has a short cooking time ( < 15 mins or so ) . I do n't bother preheating when I 'm roasting something for a longer time . If you 're setting a timer , I assume this is something that will take a while to cook , so I would n't worry about preheating .
You probably wont be able to get that exact result with a pastry bag because the almost perfect square grid they are divided into . I still think a pastry bag will be your best bet . I am not sure were you got that picture but my guess is that the tiramisu was machine made and the marks and peaks are from the tooling that was made for the machine to deliver the mascarpone topping . I would try a good sized round tip on a pastry bag and make my dot and slowly raise up and cut it off by stopping the pressure on the bag and pulling straight up . It has worked for me in the past . My background is not in pastry though so you may also just go to a local bakery or wedding cake designer and ask how they would do it . They will probably tell you .
As long as you complete the salmon 's cooking in the sauce , it 's fine . If you 're not sure when the salmon 's done by your method , I 'd suggest completing its cooking in the microwave as directed by the package and then adding it to the pasta and sauce just before preparing to serve the dish .
Modern non-stick pans should not have problems with coatings flaking off . Spend $ 50 on a non-stick pan and it will last you for a very long time . Coatings on good pans should hold up to any non-metallic utensils . Very expensive pans suggest that you can hit them with a hammer and not hurt the surface .
Every tea can have potentially various grades and different teas will have different qualities . I 'm not sure what is available where you are , but if you 're fairly new to drinking loose leaf teas , I 'd for starters find a store that lets you see , smell and possibly sample various teas . Once you have a better idea of what you 're looking for , then online dealers will be easier to navigate . So , firstly , find a reputable store , one where they are knowledgeable about their product , and difference in grades . Ask to smell the teas . Please DO NOT stick your head in the tea , waft it with your hands or the lid of the tin . If you like the aroma , it 's a good starting indicator of how you 'll like the tea . Look closely , are the tea leaves fairly even in size ? An unbroken leaf is generally graded higher than a leaf that is broken/crushed . Though since you 're specifically asking about black teas , note that certain black teas are deliberately cut , to encourage a stronger flavour . If the leaves are torn , crushed , it may be a sign of a rough machine harvest , or poor handling . This could result in bitterness . The lower grades ( small crumbs and dust ) generally end up in tea bags . So , note that . Most importantly , taste it ! If the store offers a few different sampler sizes , go for that . Ask the people there , about how they 'd recommend you prepare it . And try a few different kinds and grades . Note , if you 're new to loose leaf tea , it should taste different than what you 're used to . Trust your taste buds and your nose first ... Regardless of what it looks like and the price and what the description says , if you do n't like the way it tastes &amp; smells ( which is often subjective ) the rest is pretty meaningless .
I am answering my own question with information I have gathered after doing some of my own research . Several hand mills claim to make peanut butter , but the mill that seems to have the best public following and reviews for flour making , the <URL> , does not claim to make peanut butter in their marketing literature . I contacted the manufacturer , and got this reply : We do not recommend doing nut butters in our mill . However , we are applying for patents on a nut butter attachment for the Country Living Mill that does a superlative job . . We hope to have it available by this Fall . We have noticed that other grain mills on the market claim nut grinding ability and even show butter coming out of their mills . We have purchased these mills and tested them and quickly realized that it was an arduous task at best to produce anything resembling nut butter ... we can do the same with out mill but feel that it is misleading and certainly unfair to make such claims . Hope this helps . Of course their answer has every reason to be biased , and not tell me if there is a good peanut butter hand press available on the market . Another popular press , the <URL> claims to make creamy peanut butter with their stainless steel burrs , and one Amazon <URL> agreed it was possible , but too messy to be worth the effort . Reviews of two different griners at <URL> seem to agree with the general consensus that hand-made peanut butter is n't the state of the art ( yet ) : The nuts would n't feed , so I had to mash them into tiny bits . At this point the bits began to feed into the grinding plates . Unfortunately , those bits never exited -- even when I loosened the grinding plates . The only peanut butter that I managed to produce was the goo stuck between the plates . -- <URL> And : My test with peanuts resulted in the grinding plates clogging almost immediately , and I produced only a few flecks of peanut butter during the five minutes of grinding . Many companies claim their handmills will grind nutbutters and oily seeds , but I 've yet to see one that was n't a miserable failure in actuality . -- <URL> I have not been able to find a single first-hand account of making peanut butter with a hand mill that said it was worth it . As already mentioned , the amazon review mentioned above said it was far too messy . Many other reviews I 've found have said the end result only vaguely resembled peanut butter -- and never creamy peanut butter . In an effort to directly answer the question at hand , though , the only feature I so far have been able to find that is required specifically for peanut butter is that the mill have steel burrs , as opposed to stone which are desirable for finely ground flour , as the stone will absorb oil from nuts , causing the system to clog . EDIT : I got an additional reply from the Country Living Grain Mill manufacturers , explaining ( in no great detail ) what is required for a nut-grinder : There are a number of factors such as the mill must reduce the nuts to a manageable size prior to grinding , and propel them with enough pressure to be squeezed out between appropriately designed grinding plates . It sounds simple , but the reality is that it 's a very tricky thing to manage .
<URL> suggests Pancetta which is another form of cured Italian bacon , usually without smoking . I think the primary thing you are looking for is cured but not smoked , as smoke will add a strong flavor that is completely missing in Guanciale .
end question
start question
Can you substitute capers for green peppercorn ?
Capers are generally very salty , and not what you want as a peppercorn substitute . I think that black/white/red / madagascar peppercorn would be a fine substitute . The distinction between the different pepper flavours is very subtle , and not one to worry about much .
Decent port is not necessarily expensive ; you may find yourself spending more on the meat . For example , Sandeman 's Founders Reserve 750 ml runs about US$ 15 before taxes , Dow 's Fine Tawny 750 ml is about US$ 13 , and Graham 's Six Grapes Ruby 750 ml is about US$ 8 ( and this is just the start of the list ) . These are , perhaps , not the connoisseur 's choices , but they are hardly undrinkable . Depending on the laws where you live , you ( or your favorite wine shop ) can order any of these online from a variety of sources . Port has a unique character that is not easy to replicate with any other wine or fortified wine . If you are trying to replicate a result , do not substitute . If you really want something else that will serve the same role even if it will taste different , I would look to a Madeira , a cream sherry , or sweet Marsala ( depending on your tastes ) .
<URL> suggests Pancetta which is another form of cured Italian bacon , usually without smoking . I think the primary thing you are looking for is cured but not smoked , as smoke will add a strong flavor that is completely missing in Guanciale .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
Absolutely , go ahead and use it . I always ignore the " white and light green parts " instruction anyway , and use the leek up until the point where it feels dried out instead of firm and fleshy -- well into the dark green parts -- and it 's always delicious , even when cooked for significantly less than several hours .
I found a highly rated <URL> on food.com . I have n't personally tried it , but it 's highly rated on that site , and is ridiculously simple . 1 16 oz block of cream cheese 1/2 cup sour cream 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream Blend until smooth Try it and let us know ? :)
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
If you freeze it , the gravy may separate or curdle after thawing . Stir well , though , and it should be fine . Cooked meat will be less dry if frozen in a bit of gravy ... so if you have any leftover meat , that would be a great way to save both .
Given the science as Kenji Alt explained it in his article , the key fact of the vodka is that it is 80 proof , or 40 % alchohol . So beer , which usually is on the order of 4 to 6 percent alcohol ( yes , there are outliers ) will not have the same level of inhibition of the gluten formation . The vodka is not the only factor in the recipe leading to crispiness and good crust , so you will probably still get very good results with the beer , assuming you like the flavor profile it brings to the wings , but it wo n't be quite the same . If you use another liquer that is on the order of 80 proof , again assuming you like the flavor profile , you should get quite similar results . This would include mixing grain alcohol with water or orange juice or whatever to the appropriate ratio . Other than some white wine for cooking , though , I do n't buy spirits so I do n't what would be more economical -- and that might vary from region to region .
well veggie/cheese wise , i would recommend either of : Chickpeas drained in salt water and paprika and grilled in the oven for about 10 minutes Portobello mushrooms cut into large chunks fried halloumi large chunks of celery sauteed in salt pepper , and chili
Flour paste . Mix flour with water and a bit of salt . Go for a thick glaze-like consistency , and use it instead of the egg . Give it at least 10 minutes to hold before frying , and try to hold the edges closed with tongs when initially frying .
Any of those will work , but you want a rim to prevent any drippings from making a mess in your oven . In general , the lower the sides , the better for overall air circulation around the roast , but it is not essential . If you want to be able to deglaze the pan , avoid the ceramic or glass pan , as they can not be used stove-top . Using celery ( and carrots ) as a make shift roasting stand is very effective . They will add their aroma to the pan juices , which is often a good thing . ( Note that by the time the roast is done , they are usually spent and not worth eating . ) IF you do n't want the flavor from vegetables , any small rack which will fit will work . If you do n't have one , you can improvize one by crumpling up aluminum foil into a long snake shape , and coiling or zig-zagging it on the pan just large enough to fit the roast . For a slow roasted pork shoulder , you could also go without any rack or elevation , at the cost to some small amount of crust development on the bottom . Depending on your desires , this may or may not matter -- when I do an indoor pork shoulder for pulling , I do n't bother with a rack .
Bourbon , <URL> is aged in a fresh oak barrel . The oak heartwood naturally contains aromatic compounds including ( you guessed it ) vanillin -- the primary flavor component of vanilla itself . But beyond the already-present aromatics , the wood is further treated to produce even more flavor . About 20 % of the oak 's mass is made of lignins . When exposed to temperatures of 750 ° F the lignin breaks down to more aromatics including , once again , vanillin . Your bourbon barrel is charred in an open gas burner for 15 -- 45 seconds , making these flavors ready for extraction into your bourbon . The alcohol will then be able to further break down some of the solid mass and dissolve the aromatics . So bourbon is a good vanilla substitute because of the relatively high portion of vanillin that it contains
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
I have a whole freezer full of jalapenos - so yes , you definitely can . They definitely retain their heat just fine . They keep their texture better if you do 2 things : Use a vacuum sealer and take out all the air - to reduce freezer burn . Because of this , I recommend you freeze them in batches . Blanche them for 2-3 minutes in boiling water and then drop them in freezing water . From what I 've read , this destroys a particular enzyme that helps not break the pepper down further . I 've done this and not done this - and doing it definitely helps on the texture . They should be good for a little over a year in a vacuum sealed bag - as far as the texture goes . They should never go bad otherwise . Cos and Sobachatina - bring up another good point : freezing fast and effectively . You can try AB 's method that Cos points out , but I do what Sobachatina does . Freeze on a single layer on a tray in the freezer . They freeze quicker and better than dumping them in a bag .
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
I 've had this happen with other types of spices as well . I put it in the blender or coffee grinder to loosen it up again . Works well for me .
There are two main types of provolone : piccante ( sharp ) and dolce ( sweet ) . Most braciola recipes I 've seen call for the sharp version . Sharp provolone tastes very similar to cheddar , which I assume is abundant in the UK . The issue is that " real " cheddar is a hard cheese and provolone is only semi-hard . Here in the US , we have a softer version of sharp cheddar-style cheese that is made in Wisconsin . If a similar semi-hard sharp cheddar variant is available in the UK , I would recommend that . It should also be noted that the term " braciola " ( or sometimes " braciole " ) means a lot of different things to different people . <URL> , likely including the author of your book , it takes on the Sicilian meaning of an involtino . Sometimes the meat will be filled with a soft cheese mixture like mozzarella mixed with grated pecorino romano . However , if the recipe calls for a harder cheese like provolone , it is likely referring to a variant that is very popular in the US in which the provolone is cut into thin slices ( usually using a deli slicer ) and layered on the meat before the meat is rolled . Therefore , any substitute for the provolone should ideally be thinly sliced .
I am not familiar with nopales , but I would be astonished if their green color was determined by something else than chlorophyll . Chlorophyll is usually destroyed by normal cooking techniques . If you want to keep the color mostly green ( some dulling is inevitable ) : cook the vegetable in an alkaline fluid . The easiest way is to use water with some baking soda added . The problem here is that humans like food which is slightly acidic , and alkaline food tastes soapy . Also , vegetable fibers soften more easily in alkaline environments , so they will be somewhat mushy . So use a very small amount . If they are to be added to a dish which is acidic ( in a Mexican dish , the culprit will probably be tomatoes ) , cook the green vegetable separately , and only combine it with the rest of the dish at the last possible moment . Right before serving is best . Heat destroys chlorophyll too . Cook the green vegetable as short as possible . Blanching is perfect , do n't forget the ice bath at the end . It will probably be enough as a preparation method . While I do n't know how hard a nopale is , I find blanching to be quite sufficient even for broccoli ( provided the water contained either salt or baking soda ) , and their stems are one of the woodiest things we eat . If you do n't think they are softened enough after blanching , cook them longer , until you find they are sufficiently softened .
end question
start question
What is the difference between a prawn and a shrimp ?
Biologically speaking , they are actually different species , but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions . For example , spot prawns are actually shrimp while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns . Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs , shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs . Their gills and body shape are different too . As far as cooking them goes , they are virtually identical and interchangeable . <URL> <URL>
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
Yep , cocoa and cacao are the same thing . The 72 % has sugar making up the rest of the mass . The description on amazon actually mentions that it 's 27 % sugar and 43.5 % cocoa butter . The rest is cocoa solids , the chocolate-y stuff . As you say , that particular brand is pretty expensive ; it 's also pretty popular and well-regarded . Since it has plenty of sugar in it , you can use it for pretty much anything , including things like coatings , or even just eat some . The 100 % is unsweetened ( there 's no room for any sugar in there ) so it 's really only usable for things like baking , where you 'll add some sugar . It 's unlikely to be pleasant to eat on its own . For what it 's worth , usually in English you 'll hear cacao only when referring to the overall cacao seeds and their use as a component of chocolate . It 's not common in non-culinary contexts . For example , we 'll say " cocoa powder " not " cacao powder " .
Pasta as you know is a simple egg and flour mixture . You can add flavouring to it to give it a different spin or even a colour but at it 's root it 's just an egg dough . The different type of shapes are " meant " for different types of sauces in a traditional sense . I do n't want to imply that you MUST use one type of pasta with one type of sauce . What I 'm saying is that a particular style of noodle shape just lends itself better to certain suace types . I.E. penne , rigatoni , macaroni work really well with a sauce that needs a place to sit and hide so that each mouth full gives you the right amount of sauce to noodle ratio . Mac &amp; Cheese is a great example of this . In a soup or salad the type of pasta you choose is probably going to reflect the need of the guest and how you plan to serve the dish . With a soup you want to have a spoon that will carry the right proportions of broth , vegetables , pasta in each bite . Because of that you select a small pasta shape like orzo . However , as cooking is all about using what you have on hand , if you do n't have orzo but you have fetticini then use that but break it up first so it will work the same way . Hope that helps .
As you know , focaccia and pizza are Italian dishes , and coca is Catalonian ( a region at Spain 's northeast ) . They all have toppings , and similar doughs ( with wheat flour and yeast ) . Classical focaccias : Are thicker than [ Italian ] pizzas ( about 3 ˜4 cm ( 1.2 ˜1 .6 in ) thick ) Have rectangular shape Have herbs , salt and olive oil as topping Are baked for about 20 minutes . Italian pizzas : Are thin ( less than 5 mm ( 0.2 in ) ) except their outer part Are round ( see notes below ) Have many different toppings , almost always including cheese , and most of the times tomato sauce or whole tomato Are baked for about 90 seconds ( this is very important for italian pizzas ) Cocas : Can be as thick as focaccias or as pizzas , usually depending on the topping . Are either rectangular like focaccias , or really long shaped like <URL> . Can be either sweet or salty . Sweet ones are usually thin as pizzas , always having sugar as topping and maybe pinnions , candied/confited fruit and/or anis ( it might remind you to a Spanish Roscón de Reyes ) . Salty are just a bit thicker than pizzas , and may have many ingrediets , but never cheese or any sauce : usually <URL> . Are baked for 30 to 45 minutes ( aprox ) ( which is , in my opinion , their biggest distinction with pizzas ) Notes : I know there are some pizzas in America that do not fit in the description I gave . But I understand your question is focusing on Italian pizzas . Also , sure there are pizza al taglio in italy , but despite having different shapes and cooking time than pizza pizza , they share the same Italian spirit , and can be noticed different different to cocas . You can make the three of them with natural yeasts , like sourdough/lievito naturale/massa mare , but certainly not with chemical rising agents .
春卷 ( Chūnjuǎn , Spring rolls ) are julienned vegetables , sometimes with a bit of noodles , sometimes with a bit of minced meat , wrapped with a flour dough skin and pan - or deep-fried . They are a filled roll . You can see the different varieties by country here : <URL> Spring roll : 鸡蛋卷 ( Jīdàn juǎn , Egg rolls ) are many different things around the world . In Chinese communities , these typically refer to a sweet biscuit type roll , of hollow flaky egg pastry ( not filled . ) However , there is also another variety ( common in American Chinese cuisine ) where a flour dough wrap is filled with " pork , shrimp , or chicken , adding cabbage , carrots , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried . " In the American Chinese respect , I believe it is very similar to a Spring roll really , although the flour dough looks thicker and of a different composition than a typical Spring roll ( the dough bubbles when deep-fried , with Spring roll skin it does not . ) <URL> Sweet egg roll : American Chinese egg roll :
Differences are mainly a question of origin . Speck comes from Tyrol ( it actually means " bacon " in german , which is misleading ) and is prepared with a specific blend of spices , usually including juniper , Jamon Serrano from Spain ( it means " mountain ham " in spanish ) and is a dry-cured ham , and prosciutto just means " ham " in italian . There are plenty of differences in flavor , consistency and aspect , depending on the difference of preparation : ripening , spices and herbs and so on .
Mincing produces smaller , more irregularly-shaped items than dicing . Dicing is generally uniform , usually 1/8 to 1/4 inch on all sides , kind of like a tiny cube . The best way to explain the size difference is visually , check out <URL> for a great picture near the top .
<URL> ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet . They are baked on a sheet pan , sometimes sliced into wedges , sometimes cut into rounds or other shapes . They are similar to , but sweeter than American style biscuits . Biscuits ( UK usage ) or cookies ( US usage ) are very small , flat cake-like confections , usually rich in butter and sugar . They are also baked on sheet pans , in individual portions typically only a couple of inches across ( although sizes vary widely ) . They come in a myriad varieties and flavors . Typical flavorings are vanilla , chocolate , nuts , citrus . Some of the simpler varieties allow the butter flavor to come through . Biscuit ( US usage ) or tea biscuit ( UK usage , one variant ) are a type of quick bread charactarized by flat , flaky layers . They are typically cut in rounds a couple of inches across , and tend to be about an inch tall . They are usually only very lightly sweetened if sweetened at all . Tea biscuit ( UK usage , another variant ) or teacake are biscuits or cookies traditionally served with tea . They tend to be fairly neutral in flavor . Muffins ( UK usage ) or English muffins ( US usage ) are small yeast-raised breads which are griddled in rings , rather than baked in an oven . They tend to be a couple of inches across , and about half an inch tall . They are often split and served toasted . Muffins ( US usage ) or American Muffins ( UK usage ) are a quick bread , usually moderately sweet , baked in single serving portions in muffin tins ( the same pans used for cupcakes ) .
Some people say it 's just preparation and the base is the same ground corn / corn meal , some people say for grits you need ( more coarsely ) ground hominy ( which is corn that has been soaked in lye or lime ) . Polenta can be found loose and really solid : grits are generally loose . Corn type may also differ , as may the dish 's ' typical cultural trappings ' ( fat cheddar and bacon vs. leaner stuff )
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
Essentially , it 's like a giant chicken with a " deeper " and more distinctive flavor . The main reason I like them ( other than the flavor ) is the sheer quantity of meat you can get from one roasting session . One could roast multiple chickens for a similar effect , but with a turkey you only have one skeleton to pick meat off of , so it goes faster . Leftovers can be frozen and/or reused in all sorts of ways ( sandwiches , soups , casseroles , etc. ) . taste The breast meat of turkey is a little different from chicken , but they have a similar texture and both tend to be rather mild in flavor compared to game birds . If you had access to a wild turkey , the meat will be gamier . The dark meat of the turkey ( particularly legs and wings ) is generally much more flavorful than chicken , with a " deeper " flavor that some people love and others dislike . ( This may be the reason for the increasing popularity of whole turkey breasts sold by themselves in the U.S. , which can be roasted like a whole bird , but do n't have the " other parts " that are seen as less desirable by many . The vast majority of people I know tend mostly to eat turkey breast meat , usually served with gravy and stuffing . ) I 've seen turkey wings and legs sometimes offered at Southern U.S. BBQ joints ; when slow-cooked , they are a bit of a " Southern delicacy . " On most farm-raised turkeys I 've had recently , the thigh meat does n't have as much of that " rich turkey " flavor that I seem to recall in the past , but it has a more distinctive flavor than the breast meat . Internal organs ( " giblets " ) also tend to have a stronger flavor than chickens , if you 're into eating livers , gizzards , hearts , etc. . There 's often more fat in various parts of the bird than in typical U.S. chickens , which adds to a richer flavor . However , there 's usually not as much fat as found in other common U.S. poultry ( particularly duck and goose ) . appearance When prepared and ready to buy at a butcher , turkeys essentially look the same as any large poultry . They are often much larger than chickens , easily going to 20 lbs . ( 10 kg ) and more . There are some differences in proportions and details that you 'll see when cutting up or eating . In particular , the legs and wings have a bit more connective tissue and bony/cartilage bits than a chicken , since it 's a larger bird and needs more support . This also tends to make the leg and wing meat a bit " stringy , " which may be the reason for the slow-cooked versions I mentioned above , allowing time for the meat to break down more than when just roasting the whole bird . The meat is also a bit darker in color than chickens , particularly noticeable in the " dark meat " sections . cooking If buying a whole bird , most people in the U.S. essentially prepare it as they would make a large chicken , which usually means roasting in the oven . They are usually cooked at somewhat lower temperatures than chicken , to give time for the whole turkey to cook without drying out the exterior . Given the long roasting time for such a large bird , there 's been a bit of a trend recently to cut up the turkey so it lies flat ( " butterfly " or " spatchcock " ) , which allows it to cook faster and potentially more evenly . Other than that , one can often buy individual turkey parts and use them in similar ways to chicken parts , keeping in mind the longer cooking time required . They can also be used ( as with other poultry ) for soup meat , etc. .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
There is considerable overlap between cupcakes and muffins . Method From a technical point of view , muffins are made by the muffin method , making them small quickbreads . In the muffin method , the wet ingredients are combined in one bowl ; and the dry ingredients are combined in another bowl . Then the two are quickly incorporated together with minimal mixing to avoid gluten development . This gives muffins a somewhat coarse crumb . Cupcakes are small cakes , and are made by one of the traditional cake methods such as the creaming method , the reverse creaming method , the genoise method , the chiffon method , and so on . They tend to have a finer crumb than muffins . Contrast While no single criterion distinguishes a muffin from a cupcake if you do not adopt the technical definition above , the following trends exist : Cupcakes tend to be sweeter than muffins ; there are savory muffins such as cornbread Cupcakes are often iced or frosted , whereas muffins tend to have no topping , or a simple crumb topping Cupcakes usually have a head or top no larger than the body of the cupcake ; muffins are often encouraged to overflow their baking cup , so that their top is larger in diameter , giving them somewhat of a mushroom shape Cupcakes are almost always , well , cupcake shaped ; muffins can be made as just muffin tops Cupcakes are almost never crispy or crunchy ; muffins are often encouraged to brown and develop texture , especially on the tops
Espresso : This is a finely ground very dark roast coffee , packed somewhat tightly in a special metal filter , with water " expressed " through it under pressure . A very strong dark coffee , typically served in 1-2 ounce portions . Very commonly incorrectly called " Expresso . " Americano : Italians typically do n't drink American Strength coffee . They drink espresso in tiny cups . Then the tourists came and wanted a mug of coffee like they get at home . The Italian solution was to make an espresso and keep the water running through the grounds to weaken the coffee , and make the desired quantity . ( edit : Some locations may simply add hot water to the espresso in the cup . This does n't change the basic concept . ) An Americano is simply an espresso that has been drawn out with extra water to an American strength beverage -- Not to be confused with the typical brewed coffee , which is usually filtered . Caffe au Lait : This is strong filtered or brewed coffee ( not espresso ) , with warmed milk . This is probably the easiest specialty coffee to make at home . Just scald some milk in a pot and pour it over strongly brewed coffee . Cappuccino : A 1:1:1 ratio of espresso , steamed milk , and milk foam . Typically the milk is steamed through a special high pressure steam pipe on the espresso machine . This serves two functions . To warm up the milk and to create a stiff foam on the top . When pouring , the foam is held back with a spoon , and then scooped out on top . I 'll arbitrarily define the cappuccino as the base beverage for all that follow . Macchiato : Typically in North America , this is a cappuccino , but with the steamed milk component missing . That is , it is espresso and frothed milk foam only . Also called a " Dry " Cappuccino . Macchiato has different meanings elsewhere . Latte : A " wet " cappuccino . Hold back the foam with a spoon , and pour the warm milk over the espresso . Put a little bit of foam on top for decoration only . Mocha : Any one of the above espresso + milk drinks with chocolate added . Some places will add hot chocolate to the drink , others will add a chocolate syrup . A mocha latte is the common preparation . Not to be confused with Mocha beans , which are an Ethiopian coffee bean which has a little bit of a naturally occurring chocolate flavour . Misto : A Starbucks synonym for a Cafe au Lait .
end question
start question
Why use a kettle to heat water ?
Bear in mind that I 'm using an electric kettle , rather than a stove-top one . First , the advantage of a kettle is that it is quite efficient , and turns itself off once the water is boiling . This as opposed to the microwave , which only stops after a set time , rather than relying on the condition of the water . Second , a microwave can cause water to superheat , particularly in a ceramic or glass container . This means that there is a certain risk that the water will " jump out " at you once you add something to it or put a spoon in . Additionally , most kettles have more power than the average microwave , so the kettle is probably faster to boil water .
If it is completely empty , you probably ca n't reach dangerous temperatures with your stove . The iron itself melts at 1500 ° C . The seasoning can be burnt off at much lower temperatures , a self-cleaning cycle in the oven is enough for it ( 500 ° C ) . I have taken an iron pan to above 400 ° C without damaging the seasoning . ( I do n't know exactly how high it was , my thermometer does n't go above 400 ° C ) . This was on an induction stove set at maximum , I doubt that any other kind of stove can produce such temperatures . Edit I just heard an example showing that you can take a pan on a resistive stove to above 500 ° C with prolonged heating , so you should be measuring it if you plan to go that high . ( and if you have a thermometer in this range , you can post your findings to further limit the range of 400 ° to 500 ° C , because I 'm curious ) . But if you say " no contents " , be careful that it is actually just the pan . You can not oil it , because the self-ignition temperature ( of flash point ) of vegetable oil is low , Wikipedia gives it at 327 ° C . It could just smoke terribly and throw a spark or two when you reach it , but it can also flame up and then you are holding a small brand in your hand .
Official : No definitive answer , there are different governing bodies and plastic wraps ( cling films ) in the US/Europe . There are also different plastic wraps for different purposes , microwave safe , safe for use with fatty foods , so on . Whether its safe or not will depend on the product used and most likely the time boiled for . The UKs Food Standard Agency <URL> - " Do not use cling films where they may melt into the food , such as in conventional ovens or with pots and pans on cooker hobs " . The cling film industry are understandably much more <URL> . Practical : I 've poached eggs using cling film for ages and I 'm still here . Read the plastic wrap boxes for warnings and choose the plastic wrap that 's most suited . Poach an egg as described <URL> ( as of 2016 , link requires registration to read ) and check if the wrap comes away cleanly , If so you 're good . I 'd revisit this advice if your recipe called for cooking like this for longer than 5-10 minutes , there are likely more suitable products/recipes for extensive boil-in-the-bag manoeuvres .
Water has one of the highest heat capacities available : <URL> Your ceramic is not going to hold nearly as much heat as the water bath itself . If you are finding that your bath is cooling too quickly then you are better off investigating your cooler .
The primary reason is for accuracy and reliability in cooking times . Boiling water is guaranteed ( not accounting for altitude ) to be at 212 F ( 100 C ) . With a set temperature you can then say things like " boil X for 9 minutes " with a very high measure of confidence . You certainly can cook things in the water as you go , but it 's going to be a lot more hit-and-miss . Pasta , for example , will begin to cook before it reaches the boiling point . You would need to measure the temperature , and check the pasta regularly to determine when it was done . You ca n't give someone an accurate cooking time with this method either . The time it takes for water to boil will vary greatly with stove heat output , pot size &amp; shape , and the amount of water .
You certainly can . There are a few things to consider before popping down to the beach and grabbing a bucket . Some areas of the sea are highly contaminated with toxins . Look for some sort of signage to give you a hint , OR look for fishermen . If they feel safe with the fish they are catching I 'd be inclined to think the water was also fine . Sea water is , as you know , very VERY salty . On average around 35g per Liter . So you may benefit from using half tap and half sea water . Be sure to boil the water for a few minutes before adding any food , just to be sure any harmful " biological organisms that might contaminate the water " . Another consideration , you may be interested in , would be harvesting your own salt from the sea water . That way you have more control over the amount penetrating your food/blood stream .
There is a large collection or reasons , some are : Differences in makes and models Modern form over function problems Crap EU standards ( EN 60350 etc ) that limit the amount of power a element can use . It 's something like < = 0.25 W per cm2 , and a typical domestic over is around 1100 cm2 For same standards the typical total KW/h of modern over is 3.5 KW/h , where ovens of twenty years ago where around 4.5 KW/h \
You can not find the correct final internal temperature for a whole duck , because it does n't exist . If you stop the cooking when the white meat is tender , you 'll have very tough red meat . If you cook until the collagen is melted , you 'll get very tough white meat . With whole birds , it is more popular to go the collagen route . Especially a duck , with its darker meat overall and sufficient fat in the breast area to insulate the breast meat during smoking and then lubricate it , is a very good candidate for it . To melt the collagen , wait until the duck thigh has gone up to 70 Celsius ( 160 Fahrenheit ) and from then on smoke for 2-4 hours . In this case , the lower part of the range ( 2 hours ) is probably better , to have a chance of a little bit of juiciness to remain in the breast .
Keep in mind that whipping cream or egg whites by hand may take longer than you expect . That said , there is a proper way to whisk egg whites , and it is quite likely that taking breaks due to your fatigue is interfering . See <URL> for detailed instructions . In particular , see below for an excerpt on one possible problem ( although there are numerous things that can potentially go wrong ) . We will split the whisking of egg whites into two parts . The first covers the disintegration of the mucous mass up to the point when it becomes a grayish , roundish mass . This part requires mixing with an easy and rhythmic effort . The second part covers the conversion of the round , gray mass into a smooth , light , firm , stunningly white batter . This second part , unlike the first , requires a very vigorous and accelerated effort . During both these periods , the whisking , even though different in strength and speed , must not be interrupted . Under no circumstances should you stop once you have begun to whisk . Stopping causes the whites to disintegreate . Instead of rising and firming up more and more , their mass will remain semi-solid and will take on a blotchy , grainy look .
There are two things you care about when you are making a cake . First , ratio . Second , sequence . The ratio is a weight ratio . For example , a muffin batter has 2 parts flour , 2 pars liquid , 1 part egg , and 1 part fat . You can use different types of liquid to make different kinds of muffins . You can make any amount of batter you want , provided you use the same ratio . * The second point is the sequence of combining the ingredients . Look at pound cake and sponge cake : they are made with the same ingredients , using exactly the same ratio . But you combine the ingredients in a different order , producing two different types of cake layer . If you decide to change a recipe for avocado baking , you must keep both ratio and sequence in mind . An avocado contains , on average , <URL> . It also has 7 % fiber , but as I assume that you 'll puree the avocado first , it shoudl n't roughen the cake too much , it will be nowhere like whole wheat cake . We can ignore the sugars ( 1 % ) and proteins ( 2 % ) , as the amount is insignificant . As for the ratio , you can try using avocado , and then removing some fat and liquid from the cake recipe . As fresh avocado has 5 times more water than butter , it is n't possible to substitute all the butter from the original recipe - I do n't know any cake recipes with such high water : butter ratios . You should rather replace the liquid , calculate how much butter is being replaced by avocado fat , and then add the remaining butter needed . It will still need fine tuning , because some of the avocado water is already trapped in the fiber , and wo n't hydrate the cake flour . I 'd try out using maybe 140-160 g avocado puree for each 100 g liquid in the recipe . This will result in 115-120 g. avocado water . It will also deliver 20 g fat . So for aforementioned cupcakes , we 'll only need 5 g additional fat ( they use 25 g fat per 100 g liquid ) . Of course , layers for sponge cake or sachertorte are out of the question , because they do n't use liquid in the first place . The second problem is the sequence . Some recipes expect you to cream the butter and sugar . These ca n't be made with avocado , as it is impossible to separate the fat and liquid in this case . Similarly , you ca n't use it to make a roux for a souffle ( OK , that 's not technically a cake ) . Other recipes do n't require such careful mixing methods , and they should be fine with avocado puree . You can try practically anything where you are supposed to dump all liquid ingredients together , mix , and add the dry ones at once . Of course , you want also to consider the taste . Avocado has a somewhat earthy taste , and you 'll probably notice it in a baked product . So fine cakes ( like chiffon cake ) are better off with butter . But most of those are made without liquid anyway . You can try to hide the taste in cakes which have a very strong taste of their own . Chocolate batters will be very good for this , but some flourless cake bases with a significant share of ground nuts should work too . Another option is to use avocado in some more hearty , heavy cakes , where the taste is n't a problem . It should function in sweet cakes , and will probably be perfect in savory cakes ( think zucchini &amp; bacon cupcakes ) . It would be interesting to see what happens to a flaky crust where avocado puree is used instead of water ( with butter accordingly reduced ) . If the texture remains OK , it should give a very nice note to quiches . If you replace a sour liquid with avocado ( e.g. yogurt or buttermilk ) , do n't use baking soda . If the recipe calls for it , use baking powder instead , because baking soda needs acidic ingredients for its leavening action . * But part of it waits too long for the previous patch to free the oven , the baking powder will bubble away and the muffins wo n't rise .
First off , when reheating soup , it wo n't matter much . If you get the pan too hot before you add the soup , you could get some spattering , but that 's about it . As for making a fresh batch , there are those who believe that browning the ingredients before adding the liquids will develop more flavor . This will be a lot easier to do with a hot pan , than trying to get a cold pan full of stuff up to a heat sufficient to cause browning . Overall , it 's a tradeoff . If you 're in a hurry , it might be worth saving the few minutes to just throw everything in the pan and heat it up . If you really want to develop every last bit of flavor , you 'll probably be better off heating your pan , browning ingredients , then adding liquid .
I 'm with KatieK . That said , this ' how hot ' can be mysterious for Professionals as well . In " Seven Fires , the Argentine way of Grilling , " a book about cooking on open flame heat ( outside mostly ) , the author mentions traveling around to a bunch of Argentine steak places to time and measure what the chefs did mostly by touch and feel . So , even for a pro , getting it just right takes a lot of time and experience . If you 're persnickety , maybe you should get an infra-red thermometer .
My first instinct was no way , remembering that the branches and leaves contain a high amount of <URL> , which is a neurotoxin and not without risks , especially if used over a long time or while pregnant . This is the same stuff that caused absinthe to be discredited for decades . But Thuja oils typically contain 40 % α-thujon , sage ( salvia officinalis ) up to 60 % . Thuja 's pungent smell would prevent ingesting too much . So my conclusion would be : do not use for a long time or when pregnant ( most midwives caution against using sage , too , btw . ) use sparingly for health reasons , a limited amount is considered safe by health agencies world wide , <URL> for example . use very sparingly for culinary reasons , because the taste is quite " pronounced " . I had to take a herbal medicine with thuja decades ago and still shudder to think of it . ( It did work , though ... ) When thinking of potential culinary uses , think of uses for sage or juniper - you will want to use it as a spice in foods that can " handle " the woody , bitter tinge . Dark red meat or even game perhaps ? Complement with a generous amount of pepper and perhaps a good red wine . Another approach that might be worth a try is sweetening it up - like " fir syrup " ( is this known in American cuisine ? ) .
I always reserve a bit of pasta water to add it to the pan . The reason is simple : if you drain your pasta and add it to the sauce the pasta will suck up all the sauce and become a bit dry . Adding the pasta water ensures that your pasta will remain moist . Also yes , it helps thickening the sauce ( this does not necessarily apply to tomato sauce ) . Now , let 's be clear : you DO NOT add your pasta water to the sauce when you are preparing the sauce . You only add it when you put your pasta in the sauce . It also helps if you do n't drain the pasta , just take it out of the boiling water ( using tongs , ofc ) and put it in your sauce while still on the stove . A quick 30-50 secs stir and that 's it . Hope this helps . PS : 1/2 cup seems like a lot to me . For two portions of pasta I usually add around 3 tablespoons .
I have never tried it but when I googled wok burners ( thinking to find a standalone high-output gas hob ) , I found <URL> article about a wok ring called the " WokMon " on Serious Eats and had to post it here : A couple months ago I was approached by Glen Lee , an inventor who claimed to have an ingenious new device for cooking in a wok at home . Seemed to me that if it worked the way he promised , it would to revolutionize home wok cooking in the same way that the Baking Steel revolutionized home pizza-making . I played around with it a lot , measuring , tinkering , reporting a few issues ( it 's still in development phase and has kinks to work out -- luckily Glen has been extremely receptive to feedback ) , and generally cooking up a storm . I 'm happy to report that this thing solves a problem I 've been trying to work around for over a decade . It 's called the WokMon , and it 's like steroids for your gas burner , helping to concentrate your flames and , more importantly , put them under the center of your wok , where they 're supposed to be . It looks like it does exactly what you need but is way cheaper than buying a specialized heat source and does n't require more equipment . Unfortunately , they 're not quite in production yet , it seems , though you can <URL> . Here 's an action photo of the flame it produces off a standard gas stove : <URL>
For rice it depends . Cooking any starch in water will first cause the starch granules to swell and eventually tangle up with each other ( the gelatinization ) . Dissolving sugars or salts in the water slows down the process by raising the temperature the swelling starts . While few prefer pasta as a stuck blob of strands , the same is not the case for rice . I like my Basmati loose , but my risotto and sushi sticky , so salt may be required for Basmati and optional for Arborio . There are many techniques for controlling the starch for rice . To control the starch gelatinization of rice : <URL> ; or <URL> Method 1 wo n't avoid the grain surface starch gelatinization , but it will help with stickiness ( you may oil coat it after draining ) . Method 2 delays the starch release allowing you to finish a risotto in seven minutes . Cool for parties or for restaurants .
Roasting I use direct heat , medium-high to high , specifically I use my grill but I 've seen people set them directly on a gas stove burner ( this seems like a fire hazard , so do n't walk away ) . You could also broil them very close to the broiler , or roast them , but roasting will take longer than direct heat methods . To easily peel them , you want to go until they 're as black as possible . The blacker , the easier they are to peel . On my propane grill on medium-high flame , this takes about 4 minutes per side , my grill burns a little hot so you might need 5-6 minutes per side depending on how your grill works . edit : I also keep the lid closed so the flame climbs a bit more , especially important on a windy day . You can find a picture on the top of <URL> , I actually let mine get significantly darker than that , but it 's not required . There are some great general roasting tips in <URL> as well as peeling tips in <URL> . Grilling For grilling peppers , instead of keeping them whole , seed them and then cut them into quarters and lightly coat them with a little oil . I still use a higher , direct heat , but I flip the peppers more often so they will char a little without completely blackening . Since you 're just going for a light char , this will take a little less time than roasted peppers would , about 8 minutes compared to 12 . There is a good step by step guide with pictures <URL> .
Yes . Water boils at about 212F ( 100C ) and meat is cooked from 140F to 160F . If you left the meat in there for a very long time it would eventually approach 212F and start to get tough . The time that they give you is going to be the time it takes to ensure that the meat is safe to eat . Generally I like it to be closer to the rare side as it is more tender that way .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
The typical rule of thumb is that if it 's a non-stick pan you do add a little oil to the pan first before heating . Most manufacturers usually recommend this to extend the life of the non-stick coating . For regular pans ( those without non-stick coating ) you should heat them dry until you can feel the radiating from the surface when your hand is held about 6-inches above the bottom . Add your oil at this point . You 'll actually need to use less oil because the same amount will spread across a greater surface area due to its decreased viscosity as it heats . Plus your oil will heat up instantly and when you add your food it 's less inclined to stick . Most people get impatient waiting for pans to heat ( and in general ) and this also ensures that the food is n't going into a pan with oil that 's cold or not hot enough . When cold oil goes into a pan and cold food ends up on top of it you 'll end up with one big sticky mess . As for adding oil before heating the pan , the longer fats heat without anything else in the pan , the quicker they 'll break down and burn .
end question
start question
Can heavy cream be frozen ?
Heavy cream can be frozen but only if intended to be used in its liquid form ( soups , sauces , etc. ) It will not whip properly once frozen . I agree with Pointy that there 's really no point in freezing it because it 's usually dated about 2 months out from the time I 'm purchasing it . Additionally , if kept cold and not left out on the counter unnecessarily ( as with most dairy products ) it will keep well beyond the date on the carton . I 'm not a milk drinker but use it baking/cooking . If I have a recipe that requires milk I use a 50:50 ratio of heavy cream and water and have n't had any issues yet . If I was using milk it would be whole milk so it 's kind of like making your own version .
<URL> has about 80 % fat , 15 % water and 5 % solids . Depending on where you are located <URL> has 48 % fat ( UK ) , 40 % ( Canada ) and the remaining fraction is obviously water and little solids . Supposed , you need 100g butter in your receipe . This means that the dough will have 80g fat and 15g water ( for a simple calculation I omit the content of the milk solids ) . If you want to substitute butter with double cream , you will need about 165g double cream to have the same fat content in the dough as if you used butter . The problem is the water that you will have in the dough : You will have 83g water in the dough which is 5,5 times more . Since there is very likely little water in a biscuit receipe and it is not possible to adjust the amount of other liquids ( because there are no other liquids ) I doubt that this substitution will work with a biscuit receipe . With a cake receipe you might have more luck ( e.g. leave 83g - 15g = 68g milk out ) . Making a simple buttercream ( as known as American buttercream ) with double cream is not possible because it has almost no liquid . You could try other fillings like <URL> . I am certain that there are plenty <URL> for cake fillings with double cream .
Freeze one , thaw it and see . The liquid separates out and leaves a pulpy structure behind . Tomato sauce ( no chunks ) thaws much better and separated liquid can be stirred back in well enough . Canned works as we all know so no one is bothering trying to grow a freezer-friendly tomato , yet .
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
Eventually , yes ... but it does have a fairly long shelf life . According to <URL> , you should expect 1 to 2 weeks after the date on the package . They say : You can tell if sour cream has gone bad if you notice dark mold on its surface , bright bacterial marks , pockets of watery liquid and a sharp , bitter flavor . First the liquid will begin to separate , at which point it can still be used but within a week you will need to throw it out when you notice mold on the inside of the lid and then in the product .
I 've not been able to use store bought cheese cloth more than twice and then only if I used it gently . And I 'm not gentle on the stuff . I use it for cheese making regularly as well as juicing and random filtering . I gave up on normal cheese cloth because it is too fragile and way too expensive for what it was . I now use instead a tightly woven polyester mesh fabric . I found a yard of it in the scraps section of the fabric store for $ 1 . A yard is about 3 times more than I will ever need . I cut it into smaller pieces and hemmed it . It is strong enough to be rung out full of grapes as well as laundered and a tight enough weave to filter small particles out of beef stock . I was surprised how often I end up using these cloths and highly recommend them .
Flash-freezing equipment would n't hurt , but for the normal home cook , the main things are to chill it as quickly as reasonably possible , package it with as much air removed as possible ( vacuum sealers help here ) in individual meal-sized portions , then freeze . Thaw in the fridge if possible , or by heating your vacuum-sealed bag in a water bath . ( Microwaves are pretty bad at heating frozen blocks of food and even with a lot of attention paid will tend to overheat part while other parts remain frozen . ) Choose recipes that work for the equipment you have , and adapt your weeknight process to combine the frozen ingredients with fresh ones . Soups , many sauces , chilis , beans and rice dishes freeze well under normal home conditions , as do some meat preparations ( the texture can change , and usually , the larger the cut of meat , the more likely it is that the change from freezing will be negative ) . Without flash-freezing , foods with a high water content tend to become mushy , so that the broccoli you steamed to perfection will most likely thaw out to be limp and potatoes may be mushy .
In NZ normal pure cream is close enough to " double cream " in performance , it 's around 35 % to 40 % fat . By general global definition it should be called " heavy cream " NZ cream is pure skimmed cream from fresh milk , and does not need thickening or other processing to produce excellent results as a whipped product , or for a thick cream additive in sauces or fillings Cream can get a little seasonal just after calving time ( Aug ) , but in general it 's just perfect The export variety is often labelled " Culinary Cream " and is 38 % fat or higher . This is what many people around the world would consider NZ cream ( other than NZ butter or AMF ) If you want closer to 50 % fat cream , ask your local farmers for some raw milk and skim out the lumps of fat from that . Let the milk settle overnight and skim the cream from that . Then gently heat the fat lumps to melt and carefully mix into the skimmed cream . Not for the faint of heart ! NZ " Thickened cream " or " Mascarpone cream " is standard pure cream with a thickener like E1442 added , you can <URL>
Cookies for shaping are usually rolled cookies . Common categories would include : Sugar cookies ( as Mien mentioned ) Gingerbread Linzer cookie dough Look for recipes where you use a rolling pin . These are already formulated for minimal spread . Adapting other cookie recipes for use with cookie cutters will be trickier , and probably not worth the effort , in my opinion .
A quote from the below link ; " Do not thaw frozen seafood at room temperature . Thaw in the refrigerator or defrost in the microwave oven . If thawing in the refrigerator , allow one to two hours per pound of seafood " . <URL> &amp; Another quote from the link below ; " ... If food is allowed to remain at room temperature for two hours or longer , bacteria can multiply and cause food poisoning . - Even a tiny amount of contaminated food can cause severe illness . If you have any doubt about the safety of the food , throw it out ! " <URL>
In this recipe , the nibs are being used as an accent ingredient , adding some crunchiness and a burst of chocolate flavor , as well as some bitterness . They are not essential to chemistry or overall outcome of the recipe . You may : Simply omit them Chopped or coarsely ground roasted coffee would have a similar profile , although not as fatty , and of course , coffee flavored Try another crunchy , possibly somewhat bitter ingredient like chopped nuts ; almonds , hazelnuts , and ( in some people 's opinions , although I dislike them ) walnuts have a particular affinity for chocolate .
When I first got my iSi I had wildly inconsistent results , including exactly what you 're describing . I 'm not sure if you 're just whipping cream or if you 're whipping other cream-based preparations , but the most common reason for this happening is that the liquid going in is n't quite , er , liquid . Any solid particles of any kind will almost assuredly cause sputtering , which is why they recommend that you strain everything through a fine sieve . Other things I 've learned about the iSi whippers to help prevent these inconsistent results : Ignore everything the instructions tell you about how to charge it . They 're somewhere between very misleading and complete nonsense . What I actually do is this : Screw on a charger as described . Shake it vigorously , as if it were a cocktail shaker . Let it rest for a moment , then shake again . Repeat the shaking 4-5 times . Finally , remove the charger and screw the cap back on . The instructions are full of ominous warnings about not being able to discharge it properly if you shake it too much because the nozzle will get blocked or something . Never happened . What 's far more likely is that the cream does n't actually whip fully or there are large air pockets . Do not err on the side of caution here ; many " external " iSi recipes such as those you find in the HRC actually tell you to shake frequently as the dispenser chills . I 'm not sure if I 'd do this with cream ( as opposed to a water-based foam ) but I ca n't stress this enough , do n't skimp on the shaking . If you need to chill it some more after charging , make sure to chill it on its side . The instructions are quite explicit about this and in this case they 're actually correct . Shake it again after you chill it and before you dispense any . This is very important and conspicuously absent from the instructions . You should n't need to shake as much as the first pass , but some of the gas does seem to separate over time . Start by dispensing the cream very , very slowly , until you actually see some come out , then you can apply more pressure as needed . If you squeeze the trigger as hard as you can right off the bat , you 'll just end up depressurizing the thing before any cream has a chance to come out . Every single time I 've pulled too hard , I 've ended up with spatters . Finally , make sure that you actually thoroughly clean it all between uses , including the tiny horizontal hole in the metal tube that you screw the tips onto ( I forget what it 's called ) as well as the socket that piece goes into . Any blockages whatsoever , no matter how small , can cause at least minor sputtering . Hope some of that helps . If you do all of that , you should n't have any sputtering issues . Last 7 or 8 times I 've used mine , I have n't had any .
<URL> As Alton describes . As you beat the cream bubbles of air get worked into the mixture . The beating makes the bubbles smaller and smaller until the fat globules touch and the mixture becomes stable . As you mentioned - if you whip it a little more then the fat will coalesce and squeeze out all the water and air and you have butter . Time is a factor in this process ( when done mechanically ) in that it is required for homogeneously sized and distributed bubbles . The fats have to stay plastic . The fact that it can be done very quickly is easily seen with whipped cream chargers . The gas is pressurized into the cream - upon release expands into the tiny bubbles we need . <URL>
One element is tradition . The popsicle was supposedly invented by Frank Epperson when he <URL> in with a <URL> . ( Some historians have questioned this narrative , however , given that Epperson claimed this occurred in 1905 in San Francisco , but <URL> there for Epperson 's story to hold up . ) The choice of wood , according to this traditional story , was somewhat accidental , though given that plastics were not yet available in 1905 , Epperson 's main choices for stirring would probably have been metal or wood . ( And obviously metal would be uncomfortable to hold in a frozen treat , regardless of whether this origin story is true or not . ) In any case , Epperson later patented his invention ( including the wooden stick ) in Oakland in 1923 and started selling them . Again , this would have been too early for plastic to be a reasonable alternative , so part of the reason for wooden popsicle sticks may just be that they are traditional and familiar to customers . A business seeking to make a change away from such a tradition would need motivation , either an economic reason ( a cheaper but still acceptable product ) or an actual product improvement . Given that wooden popsicle sticks are intended to be disposable and already function well , economics would be a primary reason to switch , if there were a cheaper material . But Memj 's answer is correct here . It 's simple economics : wood is cheaper in this case , which is the reason it is used for various small uniform disposable items from toothpicks to chopsticks , utilizing technology that has been in wide use since the early 1900s . ( For more information on the reason for manufacturing and process on producing small wooden items cheaply , I 'd recommend Henry Petroski 's <URL> The Toothpick : Technology and Culture . ) It 's also important to note that some businesses actually have experimented with disposable plastic sticks . The most common type were so-called <URL> or Icetix , which were distributed by Borden Dairy in the U.S. . They were intended to be collectible and manufactured to be used as toys after serving their purpose in the ice cream bar . ( See photos and further description <URL> and <URL> , for example . ) I would note that these sticks easily solved potential problems brought up in some of the other answers : A series of holes allowed the popsicle to be frozen through the plastic and thus added to adhesion . And the holes also decreased thermal mass and heat transfer , which would negate any potential discomfort from holding a piece of cold plastic , which seems to be a strange concern to me anyhow . ** In any case , these plastic sticks were undoubtedly more expensive to manufacture , but they were marketed as a novelty item . And their interlocking nature and use as a toy required people to buy more popsicles to build with them , thereby providing an economic incentive to justify the added expense . Without such an economic incentive for " standard " disposable popsicle sticks , and with wooden sticks being traditional , there 's little reason for businesses to make a switch to plastic . ** More details about thermal properties : While some plastics are somewhat better at transferring heat than wood , there are many types of plastic which would not be noticeably uncomfortable compared to wood in a small stick , even if they were solid . Note that the thermal conductivity of many standard plastics is <URL> , only roughly double that of wood , which is around 0.13 W/m-K . Compare that to most metals , which could actually freeze one 's hand to them , which have conductivities which are hundreds of times that big . Specific heat is <URL> , and the density of <URL> is only a little higher than <URL> , which is a standard wood for popsicle sticks . Bottom line is that plastic popsicle sticks would absorb heat somewhat more quickly and stay colder a little longer , but not enough to produce significant discomfort for a small , thin piece of plastic . But , theory aside , one can easily buy reusable plastic sticks for homemade popsicles -- just search Amazon for " plastic popsicle sticks " . ( <URL> comparing 26 different varieties of plastic molds , almost all with plastic sticks/handles . ) And I do n't think I 've ever seen a review complaining about discomfort in holding them . I 've also seen multitudes of baby teething toys , for example , which are meant to be frozen and are made out of plastic : the idea of a " damp hand freezing " to a small thin piece of plastic seems quite unlikely .
It 's going to depend on the material your ramekins are made from . If you have glass ones , maybe they 'll break . But the typical porcelain ones should be fine . Keep in mind they 're used for crème brûlée , which is prepared by chilling to set , followed by topping with some sugar , then caramelizing by either a torch or placing right under a broiler . Cold to broiler or torch is a much bigger thermal shock than cold to cold to oven .
I 'd say freeze nearly all of them uncooked and bake when ready . That way they go through only one cooking and maintain the fresh lasagna taste/feel . The sauce and and the cheese will freeze ok . Mozzarella is a pretty sensitive cheese and once it 's been baked , it 's not going to hold as well when thawed and re-warmed . In my experience it gets gummy and the fat runs off . You have much better chance of enjoying a good meal with the cheese frozen raw . Unfortunately , your noodles will likely take the hardest hit , but will likely fare better than going through two heat cycles . The ground beef and sausage will also fare better that way . The reason I suggested freezing MOST and not all , is that there are times when you 're behind the 8-ball , hungry , and do n't have the time to bake the sucker , and even ponder settling for dog-food . At that point having a silver bullet in the freezer is a bonus ;) and you 'll be ok with inferior lasagna .
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
Yes , you can . In fact , this is a specific technique known as a " <URL> " which is a good way to take liquid coffee camping with you if you do n't want to take brewing equipment . Some people even prefer coffee made this way to other methods of brewing .
Traditional dough will not freeze well . You have to par-bake it . In the US , the & ldquo ; freshly baked & rdquo ; bread sold in most supermarkets is par-baked dough . This is risen dough , which is then baked for 70 to 80 % of the usual baking time , cooled , frozen , and shipped to the supermarket , where it is baked again until golden . You could do the same . A par-baked baugette is a bit denser than a traditional one . Freezing the dough before baking it kills most of the yeast preventing it from working during the first stages of baking .
Heavy cream can be frozen but only if intended to be used in its liquid form ( soups , sauces , etc. ) It will not whip properly once frozen . I agree with Pointy that there 's really no point in freezing it because it 's usually dated about 2 months out from the time I 'm purchasing it . Additionally , if kept cold and not left out on the counter unnecessarily ( as with most dairy products ) it will keep well beyond the date on the carton . I 'm not a milk drinker but use it baking/cooking . If I have a recipe that requires milk I use a 50:50 ratio of heavy cream and water and have n't had any issues yet . If I was using milk it would be whole milk so it 's kind of like making your own version .
end question
start question
Is there an authoritative source on whether salt affects pasta stickiness ?
Starch is extensively well-researched in food science , so the short answer is yes , there is an authoritative source ; there are a myriad of authoritative sources . The caveat ( there 's always a caveat ) is that food scientists are doing controlled experiments using far more sophisticated methods than pasta and a boiling pot , and they tend to be primarily interested in more theoretical questions than this , because there are an absurd number of variables at work in your own kitchen : Type and quantity of pasta ; Purity and quantity of the water ; Type , purity , and quantity of salt ; Water temperature ; Cooking time ; And so on ... So , really , to a scientist , the question " does adding salt to pasta water reduce sticking ? " is bordering on ridiculous . The answer is , as the answer often is , it depends . The following is taken from <URL> , an academic tome that is all about - you guessed it - starch . Effects of salts on gelatinization are more complex than those of nonionic solutes , as they are solute-specific and concentration-dependent . For most electrolytes , an increase in gelatinization temperature , Tm , is found at low salt concentrations . At high salt concentrations , Tm decreases and can even drop below the initial value . [ ... ] In general , the effect of neutral salts on starch gelatinization follows the order of the classical Hofmeister ( lyotropic ) series , particularly in the case of anions . [ ... but ] cations of different chloride salts exhibit a more complicated behavior as evidenced with polarizing microscopy . <URL> In plain English : Adding a little salt might reduce the gelation and thus sticking . Adding a lot of salt might increase gelation and sticking . The definition of " a little " and " a lot " depends on how much and what kinds of starch are in the pasta , what else might be in the pasta ( some already have salt ! ) , how dispersed the starch already is in the water , what kind of salt you 're using ... you get the idea . Incidentally , here 's the <URL> that the above refers to : <URL> Table salt is sodium chloride - NaCl . You 'll notice that Na + is about halfway to the " salt out " side and Cl - is right smack in the middle . So , even with my limited understanding of all the mechanics at work , it does stand to reason that the effects of having both would be unpredictable . It 's easier to predict the effects when you have something like calcium perchlorate , i.e. Ca ( ClO4 ) 2 , where both the anions and cations are on the " salt in " side . Obviously , those kinds of salts are not in your average home kitchen and I doubt that they 're even used in commercial food plants . ... although there are other <URL> other than sodium chloride , including <URL> AKA salmiac , the ( in ) famous " salty liquorice " salt . That is technically still " salt " . Which salt you choose will of course have wildly different effects on chemical properties including starch interaction . So hopefully this helps explain some of the wildly opposing anecdotal reports you 've read . There is no simple answer because your kitchen is not controlled conditions . However , there is some truth to the statement that salt inhibits starch gelation . It might have that effect , at the right concentration and with the right set of ingredients .
I believe it is kind of like the difference between broiling and baking . " Open top grill " only cooks from underneath ( kind of like broiling but not from above ) . Baked or " covered " grill will distribute the heat more evenly . For more information see : <URL> That 's where I double checked my assumption and got the metaphor of broiling and baking .
Ca n't comment on the nutritional side of things , but the main reason I can think of for not always including it is that it has a slightly different flavour . A much more intense lemon flavour is provided by the zest while the juice has the more tart elements ( and of course water ) . If you 're just interested in avoiding waste , you can freeze the zest .
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
If all the seasoning is completely removed , it will look shiny like brushed or polished metal . This takes a lot of time , and often power tools . I would first ask whether this is what you want to do : does the pan feel waxy , and have a surface that turns glossy when heated ? Then there is wax which can be easily removed with a scrub-brush while water is boiling in the pan . Finish with a little soap and hot water , and you 're ready to season . If it is , in fact , the seasoning you want to remove ( if , for example , it is coming off in places , or parts are rusting , typically on cookware which has been left outside ) , the easiest procedure is to heat the pan very hot , either in the coals of a campfire , or in an oven on ' clean ' to burn off the previous coating ( do n't do this with a pan coated in wax , the wax will burn and smoke ) , then brush with steel wool until the metal pan starts to show through . You will need to season with several coats of an oil like crisco or coconut , and this will take a lot of time . It 's rarely necessary to strip a pan unless it is in awful condition . At the point you 're at , I 'd assume that any wax or residue is gone from your work with the steel wool , and that you do n't need to go as far as to strip the whole thing . To salvage it , put aside the steel wool , scrub with a plastic brush and hot water until the black residue is gone . Clean a little more using a rag and oil ( which will pick up oil-soluble debris ) until that is clear . Then season as you normally would , using a light oil like crisco in the oven .
The non-rice paper rolls are probably made with wheat flour instead of rice flour , so they should be just as sturdy and stand up to deep frying as well or better than rice paper , which has always been fairly delicate and hard to work with in my limited experience . Here is an image of flour egg roll wrappers in their uncooked state :
No , as you can keep them separately for a long time , The point is , no chemical reaction accur because they do n't have right particles for a chemical reaction , it 's just a mixture and no new substances is made . I think they are still healthy like that . Also , accroding to a very nice article about keeping oil and vinager ( <URL> ) , despite they can be stored for a long period of time , depends on the place and container you keep them in : Olive oil and vinegar have four deadly enemies . They are : 1 . Age 2 . Heat 3 . Light 4 . Air One of the above or a combination of any of these four can damage olive oil and vinegar beyond measure . So in a dark and cool place and not a plastic container , they can be stored for 15 months .
At the time of writing , <URL> ( AKA sodium silicoaluminate , E-554 , or just " anti-caking agent " - by far the most common in salt and probably the least expensive ) costs about $ 35/kg . <URL> . You can easily find sea salt or table salt for <URL> ( $ 2.20 / kg ) or even as low as <URL> if you buy in bulk . And this is retail , not wholesale . So , using anti-caking agents as " filler " - not a very shrewd business move . Even if a distributor wanted to waste enormous amounts of cash putting unnecessary amounts of anti-caking agent in salt , <URL> . The FDA , and most other international food agencies , limit the amount of anti-caking agent to 2 % by weight ( except in baking powder ) . 2 % - trust me , that 's not going to make it taste any different . It 's all in your head . I can personally attest to the effectiveness of anti-caking agents in salt because I have purchased sea salt in the past without it - fine sea salt in one of those cardboard boxes with a tiny metal spout . I could never get it out of the box ; I had to jam a knife inside to break it apart first , and even then it was difficult . And this is in Ontario , in the wintertime , when it 's dry enough to get painful shocks from petting the cat . Most likely , the reason you never had a problem with salt caking is that you were using salt with anti-caking agent . Maybe you did n't happen to look at the ingredients ( it is salt , after all ) or maybe they did n't list it - not every jurisdiction requires it as long as it 's under the regulated limit .
I 'm going to step out on a limb here and declare that you 'll need to add more of the other ingredients . Even then , you 're likely to throw off the overall balance of flavors because they have not all cooked together . Here 's a <URL> that suggests there are about 6 compounds that primarily contribute to the flavor and aroma of celery . However , as a home cook , I have no idea what any of these are or how to suppress them specifically . It may be possible to do so , but that solution is likely to be impractical for the home chef . Another problem is that celery has a very flavor-enhancing effect ; this is why it shows up so often in traditional vegetable bases like <URL> and <URL> . Here 's another <URL> summarizing a paper that identified the specific compounds responsible for this ; the odd thing is that these " phthalides " are largely tasteless . In short : the balance and overall tastiness of your soup might have been reached specifically by adding so much celery . I think you 're going to have to chalk this one up as a learning experience and adjust your recipe next time . One thing you could try ( if you 're not already , which would surprise me a little ) is <URL> the celery . I find that this makes the flavor overall a bit milder , with less of the vegetal-bitter flavors while still getting the umami-enhancing effect .
It likely depends on what ' turning bad ' means ... If you have a couple in the bag starting to sprout , but the rest have n't , you can roast or bake the ones that have n't sprouted , let them cool , then store then in the fridge so you can pull them out to use them in something later in the week . ( eg . home fries , patatas bravas or a hash ) . For those that have started to sprout , but are still firm , you can cut away the sprouted bits ( this time of year , you might even be able to plant them ) , peel them , and then boil them and turn 'em into mashed potatoes ( which you can then vary for the next couple of days ... you can mash 'em with other stuff to make a sort of potato salad ; you can add cooked greens to make colcannon or bubble and squeek ; you can use as a topping for a cottage pie ( the technically correct term for shepherds pie when you 're not using mutton or lamb ) Some of these freeze well ... I 've made up cottage pies and frozen 'em in oven-proof containers ; you could likely do the same with just mashed potatoes -- I see 'em for sale in the grocery store all the time . If you 're looking for something to cook that just uses a lot of potatoes ( in a non-whole state , in case you need to cut away parts ) ... potato salad , potato bread , potato curry , latkes , potato soup , tortilla de patatas ... the list goes on . ... and if they 're soft and squishy , or oozing liquid ... pitch them . They 're rotting , and not worth getting sick over .
is it solely by virtue of its acidic content ? Yes , not a lot of biochemistry is happy living at pH 2 - and the stuff that can live there is already happily living in your gut with a ph of 1 is there a kind of ratio ( or other metric ) of vinegar to know whether something needs to be refrigerated to keep from spoiling ? You mean foods already packaged in vinegar ? It would depend on how well they had been cooked/sterilized before packaging and how strong the vinegar is . Industrially made pickles will be a lot cleaner than something you pickle at home , but store bought pickles are likely to use much cheaper , more dilute vinegar than your grandmother did . what components can act to counteract vinegar 's ability to preserve food ? Anything too alkali will neutralise the vinegar 's acidity can vinegar stabilize anything that otherwise would spoil ? Not necessarily , it has to be something where the vinegar can penetrate into the food - it 's not going to preserve steaks as well as vegetables . And of course the vinegar taste is going to help if you are trying to preserve say strawberries ! Also fungal spores can probably survive dormant in vinegar ( if not grow ) - fungal spores can survive dormant pretty much anything .
Using a bicarbonate of Soda paste is a good way to clean the oven and does not involve any nasty chemicals . Also , as you need to clean the base of the oven , it can help if you remove the door if it is a drop down door . This makes reaching inside much easier . Most doors are designed to be removed easily . Sometimes your manual will provide instructions on how to remove the door for cleaning . Otherwise this video on <URL> may help as it covers four different types of hinge .
This question was answered to some extent in another <URL> . This answer , which is basically just a link to <URL> , dispels a number of myths about cooking pasta . For instance : Water will return to a boil in the same amount of time regardless of how much is in the pot prior to pasta being added . Pasta wo n't get sticky with smaller amounts of water . It only gets sticky because of reactions in the first few minutes of cooking , and the solution is to stir it . This is necessary even with lots of water . You do not need a lot of water to cook pasta . Water does not need to be boiling to cook pasta . It simply needs to be <URL> . Some really interesting stuff in the article that debunks quite a lot of kitchen lore about cooking pasta . I have tried this at home with great success . So in answer to your specific question : No , you do not need a lot of water , it simply has to cover the pasta . The amount of salt is heavily dependent on the amount of pasta , the amount of water , and your own taste . You need to find a consistent way to cook pasta and then experiment .
If you 've found a very old recipe that calls for scalding for food safety reasons , then yes , it is probably unnecessary . However , there are places where it is called for . In particular , when making Béchamel ( which is made by combining milk and roux ) , it is important to scald or at least warm the milk , otherwise you can and most likely will end up with lumps . The reason to actually scald as oppose to simply warming the milk tends to be one of cooking time ; the hotter the milk is , the less time you have to spend whisking . In general , any recipe that calls for milk and needs to thicken tends to benefit from scalding for the latter reason - it just takes less time to thicken that way .
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
Short summary : views on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Part of the difficulty with this question is the very definition of the word offal and what it implies . First , a little mini-history , taken partly from the Oxford English Dictionary . Offal is literally derived from off + fall , i.e. , that which " falls off " or is discarded during some sort of process ; the word entered English around the year 1400 . This sense is rare in modern English , but it still occurs in some manufacturing processes , e.g. , woodchips that are discarded from milling . In the 1400s , it was applied in the same sense to butchers , who initially included only those things which were cut off/out of the carcass and truly considered inedible or useless from a culinary perspective ( e.g. , the contents of the intestines , which would contain the animal 's waste and would rarely be consumed because of the potential for disease , parasites , etc. ) . Gradually , this definition expanded over the years to include elements that butchers might discard or separate from the primary " meat " ( i.e. , mostly muscle ) . As the OED defines it : The edible parts collectively which are cut off in preparing the carcass of an animal for food . In early use applied mainly to the entrails ; later extended to include the head , tail , and internal organs such as the heart , liver , etc. . Given that many of these " discarded " or separated items were not considered as desirable for eating , the word gradually acquired a negative connotation , which the OED first finds in 1581 : The parts of a slaughtered or dead animal considered unfit for human consumption ; decomposing flesh , carrion . The OED adds that this last sense is " Sometimes used contemptuously , " as in the first 1581 quotation that references " dirtie tripes and offalls . " In answering this question , there seems to be a conflict between two possible interpretations about the word offal : on the one hand , there 's the " offal " that 's discarded because it 's truly inedible or difficult to use in a culinary sense , but then there 's the " offal " that 's merely separated out because some people or some cultures find it repulsive . That latter " offal " is still generally used by somebody , whether it 's eaten by people who do n't find it repulsive ( and might even consider it a delicacy ) eaten by poor people who ca n't afford more desirable food ( as referenced in the question when oxtail was given to " laborers " ) ground up , processed , and disguised in processed foods given to animals to eat For a recent perspective , I quote from the book Offal : A Global History ( 2013 ) by Nina Edwards : What might the term " offal " include ? The Chambers Dictionary 's definition sounds a little less than enthusiastic : " waste or rejected parts esp . entrails , heart , liver , kidney , tongue etc. : anything worthless or unfit for use . " Other edible innards not specified here include connective tissue , bone marrow , lungs , spleen , sweetbreads , testicles , udders , tripe , heads and the features thereof ( brains , eyes , cheeks , snout or muzzle and ears ) , skin , tails , trotters , lard and blood . Offal is sometimes thought of as inner organs and viscera alone , but I include all edible exterior parts . Including all edible ( yet undesirable by some ) parts seems reasonable in the definition , given that even as early as 1660 the OED has a quotation lumping in sheep trotters with " offal . " But in some places the word carries a distinct connotation of " organ meat " specifically . In any case , as said at the beginning , the perspectives on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Most cultures have entire classes of animals that are considered inedible or repulsive , whether pork in Jewish or Islamic traditions or almost all insects in various Western cultures . The concept of " offal " is just an extension of communal dietary guidelines or preferences to the avoidance of specific parts of animals . It 's also important to note that there are various reasons for rejecting various foods . Sometimes foods have unusual textures or flavors , but just as often they are rejected because of the associations of specific body parts ( e.g. , feet or snouts or tails being " dirty , " tongues because of their associations with animal feeding , genitals or reproductive organs for puritanical reasons , etc. ) . Or , in some cases the food perhaps resembles actual animal " parts " too much for our modern culture that is often divorced from butchering : in the era of the chicken " nugget " ( or " boneless skinless chicken breast " ) and ground beef , an actual tongue or tail or ear tends to remind the eater that the food is not from some anonymous cut of " meat " but rather from an actual animal . In some of these cases , the actual meat may not have a flavor or texture very different from the rest of the animal , but some people still reject it on the basis of its appearance or kn
Kosher salt is pure , like table salt , but without any iodine and ( usually ) without any anti-caking agents . Kosher salt crystals are also coarse , but flat , which makes them easy to dissolve or season/coat meat . Unprocessed sea salt is simply coarse ; the shape of the crystals ( whole or ground ) does not stick to meat particularly well and the impurities make it harder to dissolve properly in water . It does n't usually have minerals added ( unless it 's a really cheap kind possibly made from pre-iodized table salt ) , it just does n't have minerals removed like table salt . Kosher salt and sea salt are definitely not the same thing . Kosher salt can come from seawater , like sea salt , but the " kosher " part is all about the size and shape of the crystals , not their source . Sea salt is not a good idea for brining . It 's expensive and inefficient , and by the time the meat is cooked , any distinctness of flavour will have completely disappeared . Some of the minerals may even burn , depending on the cooking method . Instead , use kosher salt or table salt for brining and add sea salt as a seasoning afterward if you want . Using sea salt for cooking , brining , or other preparation is simply wasting it .
I 'm no authority , but I have a hypothesis . Measuring weight is more complex than measuring volume . Before the invention of the digital scale ( recent history ) , or the spring scale ( 1770 , by a Brit ) things were weighed with a balance scale and a set of weights . Materials alone makes this more expensive than a simple cup that would hold a liquid . Given the timing of the invention of the spring scale , and our subsequent armed revolution , and many years ( decades ? ) of being a flat-out poor country I do n't imagine that we had much money to worry about spring scales or balance scales . A cup is cheaper and simpler , and does n't wear out or break . The durability also likely had a role to play in our journeys westward . Likely by the time we actually could afford " fancier " methods of measurement the volume thing was just too ingrained in our heads . Plus , we tend to be stubborn ( e.g. metric ) .
No , there 's no need to wash the pasta , and really , it 's best not to . It 's good that the water gets cloudy from the pasta starch . If it has enough starch in it , it 'll leave the surface of the noodles a bit stickier , making sauce adhere better . And you can also use some of the pasta water in a sauce to the same end . Getting the water that starchy generally requires using less water ( see <URL> ) . If you 're using tons and tons of water , like the pasta package probably says , it 's probably going to be too diluted . The one case in which you might want to wash the pasta is if , even when you start it from cold water and stir enough , it sticks . The only kind of pasta I 've had this happen with is orecchiette , which is shaped perfectly for getting it to stick to itself .
I do n't know how well a substitution will work in this case , because I do n't know how the salt is being used in the recipe . If you 're mixing the salt into something where it will dissolve , then go ahead and substitute , using <URL> . If you 're mixing it into cold things , and it does n't sit for very long , I 'd go with a finer salt if you have it . If it 's a recipe that calls for a salt rub , where you rub the bird down with salt , let it sit , then pat dry and roast , you 're not going to have as good of results with a replacement . The issue is the size and shape of the crystals ; kosher salt specifically sticks well to moist surfaces to draw out the liquid , and as a result , some of the salt is taken into the meat . You 're not going to get the same behavior with other salts ( or at least , not in the same amount of time ) .
end question
start question
Is it feasible to smoke meat with spruce needles ?
It 's feasible , but then you 'd better really like the taste of turpentine and have the courage to take a chance on ingesting it . Turpentine comes from the oils of pine and -- you guessed it -- spruce . I would n't recommend taking a chance on smoking anything using coniferous materials . If you 're in an area with spruce , then you probably have alder as well . There 's your viable alternative . Additional info : If you do n't have alder handy or you just dislike alder smoke , then wild hazelnut or wild applewood will work just as well . ( I use the applewood . ) If you do n't live where the trees are , most hardware stores that sell wood stove or pellet stove fuel will have wood chips made from hardwood trees . If you live anywhere near an orchard , take a drive to the country and ask a grower if you can buy or reserve some apple , cherry , or nut tree prunings . And finally , if you live in eastern North America , maple and butternut woods make excellent smoking materials .
Two problems : Hot or warm food will briefly warm up the air and therefore to some degree the food already in fridge , especially items immediately near it . Cycling temperatures does not help fresh food quality or life . Modern fan forced fridges may suffer this problem less . It is very power inefficient to do this . Just let it cool on the bench until it reaches a cooler temperature and then place it in the refrigerator . Use any of the well-documented and appropriate techniques to cool food quickly and safely if it is going to longer than 2 hours to cool .
You can freeze it , however using it will be a problem as you will have to chip out what you want on demand rather than thaw and re-freeze it . Miso paste lasts ages in the fridge as long as you put it in an airtight container to prevent it from drying out , you 're better off just doing that .
While the above suggestions would get rid of the oil splatter problem , they would also result in overcooked meat with a soggy exterior , as all the water created during frying ( for example , chicken releases a lot of juice ) would remain in the pan and steam the meat instead of frying it . Your best bet is to get something called a splatter screen . I 've seen one at <URL> , and at walmart , and I would assume kitchen supply stores would carry it too . A splatter screen is basically a fine metal mesh lid with a handle that fits over a variety of pans/pots and while it allows the steam to escape it also prevents the oil from splattering everywhere by catching in it the fine mesh . The best $ 10 you 'll ever spend .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
Myth busters beware , are you ready ? Go ! No brining nor seasoning will make your chicken too salty . 5 % , 7 % , 10 % , The only sodium saturating process known to men is the injection , the needle injection , the so called " added solution " . If you 're only brining , you 're miles away from needle injection consequences , yet another misunderstood process . Brining is not to be feared , injections is . Edit ( after all these comments/questions showed up ) : Brining is a complex subject which I can not address here , and a lot of myths are floating around , mostly related to nuances , while people do not understand the enormous impact of : osmosis vs. diffusion , which ingredient are real actors in brining and which are not , among salt sugar fat acids alcohol herbs/flavors spices/Pungency / [ scoville scale ] what happens during passive brining vs. active cooking , including the effects of slow cooking vs. high heat the type of meat , the thickness of the meat , the duration of the brine/marination . You can debate this thing for days and years , but what matters here is the question . The assumption is " I marinated ( 5 % ) a chicken and now that my marination is over , I 'm thinking of seasoning ( salt ) before cooking . Am I running a risk to saturate the end product with sodium ? " The clear answer is NO , as long as your brine did n't last weeks , or your meat was not previously injected with a sodium solution , e.g 12 % or 15 % . The only time you have to worry about salt seasoning is when your meat has already been salted with injection , or if you just managed to cook a peace of meat with a higher than 5 % salt solution for more than a week , which wo n't happen unless we are talking about dried cured meat , which is an aberration as I 've never seen it . Please be careful with references to articles , books , so called scientific published papers . You really need to read them slowly and carefully , interpretation is key , understand where they came from , who wrote them , who paid for it , who 's getting paid for it , which is the source , ... etc , even if the almighty gods of molecular gastronomy are named on it . FYI : I 've been fighting a few USDA/FDA strict rules for years ( e.g. caning , meat temp ) , while believing their overall work is awesome .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
If you 're at all like me , you are reassured by hard numbers and measurables . This should help . In this situation one of the likely pathogens would be one of the Salmonella species . Salmonella is killed by temperatures in excess of 130 F ( 55 C ) . However , it 's not an instant death . The time to kill Salmonella decreases exponentially as the temperature increases . The following table represents all the temperature and duration to kill 99.9999 % of the most heat-resistant strain Salmonella senftenberg . This species is as much as 30x more heat resistant than a " normal " S. typhimurium . Temperature | Time --------------- | ------ 140 F ( 60 C ) | 60m 150 F ( 65 C ) | 10m 160 F ( 70 C ) | < 2m For any given temperature the proportion of bacteria killed is constant . 1/6th the time kills 90 % , 1/3rd kills 99 % , 1/2 kills 99.9 % etc. . USDA guidelines to kill Salmonella and E. Coli are as follows : Temperature | Time --------------- | ------ 135 F ( 57 C ) | 86.4 m 140 F ( 60 C ) | 8.6 m 145 F ( 63 C ) | 2.7 m 150 F ( 65 C ) | 51.9 s 160 F ( 70 C ) | < 6s 165 F ( 74 C ) | < 2s So , needless to say , re-searing your steak at a typically high stove top temperature ( at least 300 F [ 149 C ] ) for even a fraction of a second will result in utter devastation to whatever beastie population you may have picked up in recontaminating your meat . Chances are , if the steak came hot out of the pan , and you removed it from the plate quickly , the residual heat alone would be enough to kill it . The re-sear certainly does n't hurt though . A good rule of thumb is to wash plates as you go . If this is not possible or convenient you should minimally remove the plate from your vicinity by putting it in the sink or dishwasher as soon as you have taken the food off of it .
What kind of meat is it , maybe pork ? There are many kinds of pathogens in meat . One type are bacteria . They do n't die from cold temperatures ( not even freezing ) , but die from high heat . Unfortunately , heating the meat throughout so it 's hot enough to kill all bacteria will turn it into a shoesole . So , meat is cooked to slightly lower temperatures which are capable of killing most , but not all bacteria . And the surface of the meat comes into contact with the pan , so it gets much hotter than the inside . Because the surface is where the bacteria are ( they came onto the meat after it was butchered ) , they die in the hot pan . But there are other pathogens beside bacteria . One class are parasites . They also die from high heat . But they do n't sit on the surface of the meat , they were living inside the tissue of the animal before it was slaughtered . So , if you bring a contaminated steak to 55 Celsius internal temperature , but accidentally stick your thermometer in a too thin part of the meat - or do n't use a thermometer and hope that you can judge meat doneness by feel - it can happen that a parasite snuggled in the thickest part survives . And some domestic animal parasites can also use the human as a host , causing all kinds of ugly health problems . A prime examples would be trichinosis , a disease caused by a pig parasite . Parasites are rather rare in industrial food production , because there are ways to heal them in the living animal . You almost never get into contact with them , while each piece of meat you buy is teeming with disease-causing bacteria . So parasites are not in the spotlight of food safety , the typical rules are created to protect against bacteria . Given the lack of trichinosis epidemics lately , it seems to work . But if there is a high chance that you get contaminated meat , you can consider freezing the meat . Unlike bacteria , parasites die when frozen solid , and stop being a danger to you . I have n't heard of such a wave of advice in the media , it could be that there was a single high-profile case of parasite illness in your country , or that there has been a slowly growing epidemic . Or also that there always has been some danger due to the way animals are typically held ( your description of eating right away reminds me of a family slaughtering pigs they raised themselves , in which case there is no vet inspecting the meat ) , but that consumer rights groups have started a media campaign to bring the situation into public attention . Beside pork , there is high parasite risk in wild hunted game , as well as many kinds of sea food . Sheep can also carry some , but they are more likely to be in the organ meat , not the muscle ( e.g. liver flukes ) . AFAIK , beef and chicken are not typical hosts to dangerous parasites . Update : As Mischa Arefiev points out , there is a type of tapeworm which lives in beef . Freezing is effective against it too .
It 's feasible , but then you 'd better really like the taste of turpentine and have the courage to take a chance on ingesting it . Turpentine comes from the oils of pine and -- you guessed it -- spruce . I would n't recommend taking a chance on smoking anything using coniferous materials . If you 're in an area with spruce , then you probably have alder as well . There 's your viable alternative . Additional info : If you do n't have alder handy or you just dislike alder smoke , then wild hazelnut or wild applewood will work just as well . ( I use the applewood . ) If you do n't live where the trees are , most hardware stores that sell wood stove or pellet stove fuel will have wood chips made from hardwood trees . If you live anywhere near an orchard , take a drive to the country and ask a grower if you can buy or reserve some apple , cherry , or nut tree prunings . And finally , if you live in eastern North America , maple and butternut woods make excellent smoking materials .
I would never leave it unseasoned . Carbon steel rusts . If you just cook with sufficient oil , and let it cool down with the oil still inside , and then clean gently ( preferably without any soap ) , the inner bottom will indeed session itself with time , as tfd mentioned . But the rest of the pan will be exposed to the air and will create a layer of rust . If you do n't use it frequently enough , or if you prepare acidic food in it before it has gathered some seasoning ( and most vegetables are acidic ) , you will get rust on the bottom too , before seasoning has had time to build up on its own . Ingesting rust is not an immediate health risk , but it is better to avoid it . Our bodies were n't designed for it , and you might end up with too much iron in your diet . It is also porous , so the pan would be hard to clean well . And it looks really shabby to have a rusty pan in the kitchen . And if this is your first " normal " pan after years of non stick , you might be amazed at the amount of oil needed to prevent food from sticking . It looks terrifying to our modern " fat is bad " eyes . And you still have to be careful , despite the oil . With time , you will learn to cook the right way , but having it seasoned first certainly helps . There is no law requiring you to season , but to me , the above reasons are enough to always season .
What you 're describing is n't all that different from how they make various products like Liquid Smoke ( make smoke along with steam , then condense that steam ) . You will need to make sure that some actual condensation occurs ( for example , by having a lid for the smokey vapor to condense onto ) . However , it may be simpler to add a liquid smoke-type product directly ; at least the main brands are actually smoke distillates ( and not artificial flavorings or similar ) and thus should be effectively identical to this process , but quicker .
Short answer : cream is far from ideal as a frying medium . In the US at least , heavy cream is about 35 % milkfat . Recently , I have learned the UK has a product called double cream which is closer to 50 % milkfat . So what is the rest of the cream , if it is only 50 % milkfat at the high end ? It is water , with dissolved milk solids and minerals . Even butter is only about 80 % milkfat -- the rest is an emulsion of water and milk solids in the main milkfat phase . When butter is made , one by product is buttermilk ( the old fashioned kind , as opposed to the modern cultured milk product ) which is the remainder of the liquid components in the cream after the butter precipitates . The essence of making ghee is separating the milkfat from the other components . What does all of this mean ? Cream would be far from an ideal medium for frying , as the water would have to evaporate before the temperature could rise to frying levels . It may be possible in some way by reducing the cream until only essentially the fat is left , and then frying in that , but it does n't seem very practical . I am not sure how you would do it without introducing many off flavors from scorching or burning the milk solids . I could not find any references to such a thing when googling , although the results for fried ice cream did tend to predominate . If you want to fry in cream -- use ghee . It is highly concentrated milkfat .
After dumping out a couple of jars of failed not-quite-fermented fennel I wondered , " Could fennel have antimicrobial properties ? " < < facepalm >> Why , yes . Yes it could : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Granted , these are about the essential oil and not the whole plant . So I ca n't be sure this is the problem , but it seems very likely . Maybe a little fennel mixed in with something else wo n't muck up the fermentation process , whereas a whole jar of fennel can . And though it 's hard to know , I suppose there could be a safety concern . Lacto fermentation protects us through ( 1 ) salt , ( 2 ) oxygen depletion , and ( 3 ) acid production . Based on what I saw with the failed batches , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) may have been below normal . If salt-tolerant critters were to survive ... that could be bad .
Preheating the tea pot with hot water will also prevent the tea pot from cracking when you do add boiling hot water for the tea to steep in . I will say that I have a fairly thick-walled tea pot , I rarely preheat it , and I 've never seen any danger of cracking . However , if I had a nice china pot , I would preheat it . Better safe than sorry !
The rate of slime of a piece of food has to do with amount of surface area it has . At each point a food 's surface is an entry point for bacteria . Since there is always bacteria on any cutting utensil or machine every cut piece of meat has been seeded with a bacteria culture . Although it might not kill you or make you visibly sick , the slime is coming from microbes which will stress your immune system that might be fighting other things instead . Unless it 's Nato beans or oysters slime on food is no good . If the cold cuts are sliming quickly it might be because the grocer is not cleaning the machine properly or somebody 's refrigeration is not cold enough , 5 to 10 degree f too warm .
In theory you could thaw and refreeze as many times as you like , though the changes in temperature would definitely alter the quality of the meat 's taste and texture . What matters most is how long the meat has been in the so-called " danger zone " speaking from a temperature perspective . The " danger zone " is defined as being between 41 to 135 ° F ( 5 to 57 ° C ) . Here is an excerpt from <URL> : Foods left in the danger zone for a period longer than four hours are considered adulterated . Additionally , one should be fully aware that the four-hour period is cumulative , meaning that the meter starts running again every time the food enters the danger zone . Therefore , once the four-hour period has been exceeded , heating , cooling , or any other cooking method can not recover foods .
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
end question
start question
how to make soup less ' meaty ' ?
It sounds like you rendered too much gelatin into the soup , a couple easy fixes are to either : prepare another batch of the soup omitting the ham and bone and then marry the two over a medium/high heat thin with a low fat/nonfat liquid like milk or water ( unfortunately a side effect will be of increased separation in the soup as it cools ) the lower the fat content of what you add the more it will separate . ie adding 2 % milk will cause less separating than skim milk
Well - not exactly . The reason that this technique works with lemons is that they actually do contain quite a bit of water . It 's not so much " water-free " as it is using the residual water from the rinds and un-squeezed pips . Mint contains a lot less water by weight , so if you tried it in similar portions you 'd wind up not with mint syrup , but with slightly-damp mint-flavored sugar . However , that might actually work pretty well for your intended purpose . The flavorful oils in mint will dissolve very well in sugar or in something with a lot of fats , like cream . You could try gently muddling fresh mint in a small amount of sugar and letting it sit until the mint looks ragged , dissolve the mixture in cream , filter out any little bits of mint , and then using that to make your whipped cream . You could also try breaking up the mint a bit and letting it sit in your cream for a while to extract the essential oils , but my suspicion is that you wo n't get quite as intense an extraction that way . The other option that bears mentioning is using an essential oil or extract to flavor your cream or cream cheese instead .
Caffeine is water soluble , but it takes a bit of time to be absorbed by water . What determines the caffeine content of a coffee process is how much time it spends with/in water . For example , a bodum French press will pick up more caffeine from the coffee since the grounds stay soaked for a while . Drip coffee will have more than a single espresso ( common misconception is to think the opposite ) . It 's likely that the instant coffee process passes the water through the coffee under pressure and faster than drip . This will naturally prevent the caffeine to be absorbed in water as much . Besides using decaf roast , what you may wish to do is get an americano coffee made with one or two Ristretto shots of espresso . A Ristretto shot is usually pull away after 10 seconds . Take a look at this analysis from the <URL> for the actual Caffeine values .
There are noted resources for flavor pairing , many of which you can find on this site . Check out <URL> . You 'll find : <URL> <URL> , including suggestions for <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( here 's a start for your <URL> ) <URL> <URL> For your specific question of what goes well with citrus rind , you already know chocolate is a good match and that you are putting the sauce on brownies . Nuts in your brownies will be a good match too , especially pecans . Caraway , thyme , cardamom , or black pepper might add an unexpected note with orange . Rosemary is a very nice match for lemon . I recently made cookies using orange zest and black pepper that came out quite well . If you want the citrus flavor to dominate I would leave out the berries . Otherwise I 'd definitely use the raspberries , which go well with citrus . The bluberries would be fine , but I would n't consider them your best choice .
I 'm looking for the online reference , but I remember reading in Cook 's Illustrated that they were able to substitute a bit of gelatin to mimic the mouth-feel of homemade stock . I did find a <URL> recipe that used gelatin . Based on how you described your recipe , I would say that the long cooking of chicken bones is indeed what 's missing . You might get a better result if you roast your chicken breasts and vegetables before cooking them in the broth .
The second easiest way to get stiff , but still edible mashed potatoes is to bake the potatoes whole , then put them through a ricer . The easiest way is to use potato flakes ... and then you can make them as thick as you want , and even thicken them further if they came out not to your liking initially . You can still mash potatoes that have been baked ( although you 'll probably want to peel them ) , but if you use a wet cooking method , after they 're done cooking , drain them and put them back into the pot ( still warm , but with the heat off ) with the lid off for a minute or two . Once you do n't see any more steam coming off them , check to see if the bottom of the pot is dry . . if it is n't , move the potatoes to another pot ( lift them out , to avoid moving the water with them ) , and drain the water . I 'd personally then dump them back into the now dried pot ... I just find that when you 're limiting the amount of moisture going into the potatoes , making sure they stay warm as you 're mashing helps the process . You 'll still need some liquid , but making sure that the water is out gives you more control of what liquid is added back in ( and you can make sure it 's a flavorful liquid ... dairy , olive oil , chicken stock , etc. )
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
similar to what julio said , the main reason is that typical wheat-based noodles release a lot of starch into the water , which changes the consistency of the soup . the starches can add a dirty colour to the water , but more than that , they can also thicken the soup undesirably ( think of making a roux ) . Finally , if there are leftovers , the noodles can sometimes become completely water logged , making eating it the next day a bit of a soggy experience . That said , with all these considerations there are times when you might add the noodles directly in -- non-starchy noodles ( eg . like rice noodles ) seem to do ok . also parboiling regular pasta before hand seems to help a lot with the starch and can still help you achieve the flavour integration you mentioned .
Custard should taste eggy . This is a feature , not a bug . However , from your mention of flour , I think what you 're talking about is a souffle , not something like a creme brulee or along those lines . Would that be correct ? Edited based on subsequent clarifications : Ah . Your method is sorely lacking , and your ingredients are off . You need to temper the yolks first , you need to use yolks only , and use cream instead of milk . Here is a smaller version of what I use at work for creme brulee : - 1L 35 % cream - 11 egg yolks - 1C sugar - 1 vanilla bean , scraped Bring cream to a simmer with the vanilla seeds and pod ( you can use approx 1.5 tsp vanilla extract , pure not artificial , instead ) . While it is heating , beat the yolks and sugar together until just incorporated . Pour the cream into the eggs whisking briskly to prevent curdling . Pour mixture through a fine chinois . Skim off foam , pour into ramekins . Place ramekins in a pan , add water to 1/2way up the sides . Cover pan with foil . Bake at 275 ( convection ) or 325 ( non convection ) for approx 40 minutes , until wobbly in the centre but set . Chill until set , eat . The deflation is caused by a souffle effect coming from including the egg whites , which are never used in a custard -- custards , creme anglaise , etc , are always yolks only . When you include the whites , air will be trapped inside temporarily , and will escape/collapse when the mixture cools . If you bake until fully stiff with my method , you will get hard and rubbery custard by the time it is set in the fridge . Also , save the whites -- they freeze well -- for meringues or souffles .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
Removing dissolved sugar from a recipe , as in your soup , practically impossible . You have two main choices : Reduce the impact of the sweetness . Increasing acidity ( lemon juice or vinegar for example -- since ketchup contains vinegar , vinegar or more ketchup may be most compatible with your specific recipe ) may mitigate how sweet the soup seems . This may or may not work -- you would have to experiment , and it could make the soup taste worse worse ( the risk being you would then still have to discard the soup . ) If you really like the borsht , and can eat ( or freeze ) it all : make a second batch with considerable lower sugar , and combine them . You will now have twice as much soup , but flavor balanced .
Does it work ? Yes , it does . The idea is to create something akin to an individual " dutch oven " around the chicken or fish you are baking . The meat is " steamed " in his own juices . There are a bunch of different " recipes " for the salt crust , often with some " binding agent " like egg whites . Usually , the skin is removed when serving ( go ahead , give it a try , if you like ) , so rest assured that the meat underneath is not too salty . An alternative to salt ( and arguably more " paleo style " ) would be baking in clay . A quick internet search should yield plenty of recipes for both varieties . ( Remenber : asking for recipes is a big no-no here . )
Adding a little bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) to the beans when soaking overnight should help soften them .
Soup freezes great in my experience . To freeze it for long term storage , you 'll probably want it to be vacuum sealed . In order to do this I freeze individual sized portions in Tupperware-style containers ( make sure to leave enough room for expansion ) , and as soon as they 're solid , vacuum seal those large " cubes " . They generally stack pretty nicely in our garage freezer . In general soups should thaw and taste very good , some flavors even seem become stronger or seem to enhance and meld better with the freezing . If you vacuum seal them as above you can throw them ( still sealed ) into a pot of boiling water for hot soup relatively fast ! As an aside , another great option with a leftover turkey frame would be to save it with previous odds and ends ( carrot/celery ends , onion pieces , etc ) in the freezer , and when you have enough make a simple stock . You can then freeze the stock into cubes ( in ice cube trays ) for soup-making later , sauteeing veggies , in place of water for more flavorful rice , and a ton of other things .
I assume you mean sherbet , which is made by mixing 1 cup of powdered sugar ( also called icing or confectioner 's sugar ) with 1 tsp of baking soda ( also called bicarbonate of soda ) and 1 tsp of powdered citric acid . Altering the proportion of soda ( alkali ) to citric acid makes it more or less fizzy .
Add baking powder to the mixture , if needed , as it will cause them to puff up and lighten when cooked . Adding a little cream may also help . I have a Gulab Jamun recipe from " Dance of Spices " by Laxmi Hiremath , pg 412 , which lists the following for the dough : 0.5 cup ( 120 mL ) unbleached all-purpose flour 2 cups ( around 470 mL ) powdered nonfat dry milk 1 tsp ( 5 mL ) baking powder 1 cup ( 236 mL ) heavy whipping cream ( probably listed as " double cream " where you live , see <URL> ) about 1 TBSP water ( 15 mL ) The dry ingredients are mixed , then the cream is gradually mixed in , and the water is added to make a smooth , pliable dough .
The modern way is still to sieve . I actually did this a couple of days ago . I made a sauce out of boiled onions , capiscums , chilli peppers , canned plum tomatoes , carrots , garlic , ginger and spices . This was then whizzed in a blender and sieved through a fine metal sieve to remove the pulp , seeds , large fibrous pieces that wer n't blended . It makes for a smoother sauce . The fine metal sieves are fairly cheap and easy to obtain . There are also finer sieves made from plastic or even muslin you can also use . The technical term seems to be <URL> A food mouli :
I would use the oven . The dehydrator will obviously remove water , but it wo n't toast the granola like an oven would . You could always try super-dehydrating half a batch and ovening another .
When you refer to cooking Bulgur wheat , do you boil it in a pot of water ? Admittedly the only thing I have ever done with Bulgur wheat was Tabbouleh , where you just reconstitute the dry Bulgur wheat by pouring boiling water on it and letting it soak that way until it softens and fluffs up real nice &amp; golden with every grain separate from the others . I.e. not sticky or gluey . One time , on bad advice , I bought " cracked wheat " which is , I gather now from Wikipedia , not the same , even though some people think the two are identical . On that occasion , my " Bulgur " wheat did soften but was grayish in color and the individual grains stuck together kind of like oatmeal . Wikipedia says that Bulgur wheat has been parboiled already , so you would n't need to boil it a lot to cook it , but merely re-hydrate with just the right amount of boiling water . So ... if possibly you are using " cracked wheat " like I did , maybe this info can help with the stickiness problem .
If you add too much water your jello ( jelly in some parts of the world ) will not solidify . What I would suggest is looking for a non-sweetened gelatin mix and adding less sugar to it . Alternatively you could get gelatin sheets or powder and make your own from scratch . It 's not that hard to do and you get exactly what you want .
end question
start question
Can I filter out vanilla bean seeds ?
A chinoise will not -- I speak from daily experience -- filter out vanilla seeds . A coffee filter would , but my question is : why on earth would you bother ? It 's annoying to do ( and depending on what the product is , filtering through a coffee filter would ensure you lose other things ) , and seeing actual vanilla seeds in the final product tells your guests that you are using real vanilla beans , not extract . Professional kitchens do not , generally speaking , attempt to remove the seeds for the reasons noted above . @stephenmacdonald , most dessert recipes that call for a fine mesh strainer do so because there is the possibility of chunky things ending up in the product . In the case of that recipe , I would guess it is to prevent chunks of undissolved gelatine from ending up in the final dessert .
A few fly traps can help matters tremendously . Take a plastic bottle , like for water or soda , and slice it in two just below the neck . Now take the neck of the bottle , invert it , and place it inside the base of the bottle . Add a few centimeters of " bait " . When I had a terrible fly problem last year , I learned that flies really like the energy drink " Rock Star " . Go figure . After a couple of days with three traps in my kitchen , I no longer had a problem .
You can use Crisco All-Vegetable Shortening : its is on PETA 's ( People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ) shopping list of baking goods , but can work just as well for frying as lard .
If your pastry cream can handle being stirred ( most do and as you will be including whipped cream anyway ) , you should be fine . Stirring will soften your pastry cream a bit , but not make it completely liquid . You can even add the vanilla to your cream , whip it together and need not worry about stirring well enough or uneven distribution of liquid in your pastry cream .
Getting the Vanilla from the bean to the taste bud takes time . While many will advocate the use of fresh vanilla beans ( as you have tried ) , I have always preferred the flavor that is granted from a good vanilla extract . In my opinion it is stronger and better distributed throughout the dish . Whether you buy or <URL> I think you will get a more consistent and rich flavor that way . ( note : thanks to @rfusca for providing the extract link in a <URL> )
No , it is not safe . As soon as a pressure cooker loses pressure it is not hermetically sealed . Stock , in particular , is often used as a culture medium in petri dishes to GROW bacteria . They love the stuff . Pressure cooking or pressure cookers do not confer magical powers to food - once the pressure is gone all the regular food handling rules apply : Always refrigerate perishable food within 2 hours ( 1 hour when the temperature is above 90 ° F ) . When in doubt , throw it out . Here 's a little story about <URL> , wherein a cookbook author feeds lethal week-old stock to his family - and the expert opinion on why this is NOT ok .
<URL> . The beans themselves have a much subtler flavor , a bit closer to tea really . Try tasting a light roast coffee compared to a medium roast or dark roast at your local coffee house . The differences are readily apparent . The coffee you describe was most likely a dark roast which generally has a quite smoky and even burnt character .
I like the method of wrapping it in a damp paper towel and zapping it in the microwave for 10-20 seconds . This should moisten it up just enough to allow you to split and scrape . This article mentions that method as well as soaking very briefly in hot water : <URL>
No . In most ( all ? ) places that sell chicken eggs in quantity , the eggs are not fertile . For that , there needs to be a rooster involved . The hen that laid your egg does n't hang out with roosters . Your best bet is to acquire a few fertilized eggs from a farmer who keeps chickens . You can also buy fertilized eggs online , just search for " fertilized chicken eggs for sale " .
Since it is a custard , you should probably refrigerate it as soon as it is cool . A very sugary or acidic custard may be able to resist bacteria for a couple days ( see Bismark donuts ) , but unless the recipe was specifically developed to be stable at room temperature , then there is some risk of it going bad . If you have a fridge , there 's no reason not to use it . It may make the dough a little soggy , so you will want to find a way to store it to reduce condensation . Better yet , make just as much as you are going to eat/serve at one time , and do n't worry about this problem . <URL> <URL>
Worked fine for us ; we used to cottage with people who did n't want to shop very often , had lots of kids and a big freezer out back . We would buy lots of milk and freeze it just fine . Do let it defrost completely before trying to use it . We never noticed any separation , nor problems with expansion - do be aware of the container the milk is actually in , and if there is room in there for freezing to occur . FYI - this specific experience was in Canada , and milk up here comes in bags that we then place into a pitcher-like contraption to use . Your specific container may or may not have enough space .
Well , if it was a boat , you 'd swab it every few days ( " swab the desk " ) so it stayed wet and swollen . You could also treat the bucket with a food-grade mineral oil . You can find it in most kitchenware stores for protecting cutting boards . The oil will evaporate much slower than water will , but it will still evaporate . You might try putting the whole thing in a large plastic bag or similar container , so whatever moisture evaporates stays in the air surrounding the bucket , slowing further moisture loss ... but moist , stagnant air is n't good for long periods of time , either , as you could end up with mold that would be even more annoying to deal with . Or , as the bucket 's only touching the ice &amp; salt mix , and not coming in direct contact with food , you could always use wood treatments available from any hardware store . update : I was reading up on walnut oil , and wikipedia linked to a woodworker <URL> for finishing wood that would come in contact w / food , but that you should re-coat each year . I assume the beeswax would give it longer durability as compared to straight mineral oil sold for cutting boards .
Yes , you can freeze parmesan cheese . Even without freezing , Parmesan is very durable since the low water and high salt content prevents mould from growing . The younger varieties may be more prone to mould growth ( having a higher water content ) , but I 've kept ripe Parmesan ( 30-36 months ) for at least a year in the fridge without problems ( and it would probably have stayed good much longer ) . Just remember to keep it wrapped in paper , not in a sealed plastic container to prevent a buildup of condensation .
The tricky thing with flax seeds is to grind them fine enough . I 've found that my coffee grinder , for example , wo n't do the job because the seeds have a very hard coat . You can buy vacuum packed pre-ground meal and that may be a good option . Once you have ground flax seeds , they can be added in small amounts to baked goods very easily . Adding say 1/4 to 1/2 cup to a muffin , quickbread , or yeast bread will work nicely and add a nutty flavor . They can also be sprinkled on salads or grain dishes . You could add a little sea salt and use them somewhat like <URL> .
Roast Date Coffee starts to degrade fairly quickly . If you can find someone who roasts locally , that 's ideal . The closer you are to the roaster , the less shipping and handling and the more likely you are to get quality coffee . If a company is roasting something to be shipped nation wide , they have to make certain sacrifices . So like @Max said , look for a Roast Date . Within the last week or two is ideal , a couple months is decent . Origin For places like Tim Hortons ( Canada ) , McDonalds or Starbucks , they are looking for a very consistent taste every time . This is easier to do with a Darker Roast as you hide some of the nuances of specific crops . Often these will be from multiple origins to " blend " to a consistent taste . There are still many acceptable coffees that are blended like this . However , if you look at many of the Artisianal Coffee Places , they often tend to go for a light or medium Roast . They 'll also tend to advertise a specifc farm and country . The reason for this is that with a lighter roast you can taste more of those specific notes in the bean . Some places in my opinion go to far and under roast it . I find in this case it actually comes across as overly sour . So this is entirely up to you what you prefer or are used to . Packaging You want something that was vacuum sealed at the roaster . Coffee reacts with oxygen and degrades as soon as it 's roasted . Vacuum sealing it immediately , slows down that process . So this means avoid anything in a bulk bin in a coffee shop or grocery store . You also want to buy something that is a whole bean . As soon as you grind it , it also starts to degrade ( within minutes ) . You can find a ceramic burr hand grinder for about $ 30 . Personal Notes ... For me , I have a few local roasters that I really like , but for my daily cup I ca n't afford to buy them regularly either . So basically , I look semi-local ( for me it 's anything in western Canada ) for a medium roast from a company that can tell me where they got their bean . I look for words like " single origin " and " fair trade " and yes , even " organic " . I do n't actually care if it 's Organic , but I 've found these companies often care about their product more . When I get the coffee I like to be able to taste something unique in it . I 'm not sitting here looking for " hmmm this tastes of elderberries and caramel by the ocean in the fall ... " that 's a little too much for me . That said , if it just tastes like generic " coffee " , then I 'm not really interested . Not to say that any of this guarantees their quality ... so buyer beware . I do n't think specific brands fits with this site , as it 's too specialized/localized , but hopefully that gives you something to look out for .
It depends highly on how fresh the vanilla is when you buy it . At least here in Germany , vanilla beans from the most common super market brands are mostly parched and IMHO already out of order when you pick them up in the store . For several years , I have ordered my vanilla in larger batches from an independent importer ( current price is about 30US $ for 60 beans ) and I 've at least kept them for a year and a half or perhaps two . The quality of course deteriorates with time , but they are not going bad as in " can not be used anymore " . One problem is however that if the beans are too fresh , they are a little bit tricky to store properly . As scientifics already wrote , it is usually recommended to keep vanilla in an air tight container to prevent them to dry out . If the beans are very fresh and still moist , this will cause water to condensate and I suppose it is not good for the beans to soak in water for a longer period of time .
Water has one of the highest heat capacities available : <URL> Your ceramic is not going to hold nearly as much heat as the water bath itself . If you are finding that your bath is cooling too quickly then you are better off investigating your cooler .
I recommend a dedicated , rotary style coffee grinder for home spice grinding . Whole spices last longer , usually taste better , and are often less expensive than pre-ground . In many food cultures , whole spices are often toasted whole , then ground . It makes a big difference for not a lot of effort . I picked up a rotary style <URL> for $ 3 at a thrift store . I use it to grind all kinds of spices . It never needs to be washed . If it starts to taste like last weeks spices , I just grind up some rice and shake it out . It works great , I 've ground spices in the same grinder for 5 years .
A paper filter is a true " filter " in that it basically only allows liquid to pass through . This means that you will have no sediment in your coffee , if that is a concern to you . Paper filters are absorbent though , so some of the flavor compounds of the coffee will be absorbed into the paper , and some other compounds as well ( a chemical in coffee that causes a rise in cholesterol is absorbed by the paper ) . The paper can also lead to a papery flavor in your coffee . Metal filters only filter out particulates of a certain size , so you will frequently end up with a layer of " sludge " at the bottom of your pot . Metal filters should be non-reactive though , so they will not add a flavor to your coffee and will allow everything extracted from your coffee to pass through . If cholesterol is n't a concern , I 'd say try both and see which you like better . <URL> <URL>
You want to use a gentle heating method . For this sort of thing , I prefer steaming . It will gently bring up the heat of your food without wringing the moisture out of it . This is especially helpful if it 's already cut into relatively small portions , such as slices of breast meat . Spread everything out on a single layer on the steamer basket before hand . Warming drawer would be my second choice . Slice , add a few teaspoons of water , and cover and add to your warming drawer , set to your target temperature .
end question
start question
Will a grill pan reduce oil splatter when pan-frying steaks ?
Yes , a grill pan will help some , for the very reason you have already identified in the question . Another advantage to a grill pan is charming grill marks . I do n't think that 's your best solution . If you like a serious sear on your steak , I do n't think you can do better than a wickedly hot cast-iron skillet . ( more on that : <URL> ) To mitigate spatter , I recommend a <URL> . The surface is a fine mesh screen , it allows free exchange of air , but holds grease in the pan and away from your walls .
You ask about coating , but it is actually not very important . There are other criteria with much higher priority when you are making caramel or other types of candy . The important thing about pan when making caramel is even heating . Especially when making your caramel dry , you can not afford hot spots , because you can not stir . But if you are taking the candy into the later caramel stages , even heating becomes important for syrup-started candy too . You need a responsive pan if you are making caramel . Sadly , the most evenly heating pans are also the least responsive and vice versa . I would never make caramel on a resistive stove in iron , but I use a small enamelled Dutch oven for caramel on my induction plate . A good sandwiched steel with an aluminum core should offer a decent tradeoff between evenness and responsiveness on most stove types . You also need the correct size pan . If your caramel is less than 1 cm deep , it is very hard to handle without burning it . If it is deeper than 5 cm , there is too much of a heat gradient in the depth . Choose the pan diameter such that your caramel depth will be between 1 and 5 cm roughly . If you are going to add any kind of liquid to the caramel ( or butter ) , you 'll experience lots of foam . You need a deep walled vessel to catch this foam . Use a deep sauce pan or a small pot instead of a frying pan . You want 10 cm wall above the caramel level . Aside from a seasoned cast iron pan , I have n't experienced a coating adsorbing flavors . PTFE , ceramic , enamel , anodized alu or no coating - none of them matters . Use whatever you have handy . For cleaning , follow Elendil 's advice for dissolving the smears in hot water .
The bottom of the 8 " pan is a bit less than half the size . For a 2 " deep-dish , there 's a 2-inch high ( if you take it to the top ) 8π circumferential strip for another 16π , and presumably the 12 " dough is for a flat pizza . At 32π . vs. 36π I 'd do the whole box , unless your deep dish is n't really all that deep . I 'm also a bit concerned about the " never used " cast iron pan needing some seasoning , but perhaps it 's " lodge logic " pre-seasoned .
The 30 minute cooking time is somewhat similar to my experience with mini-cheesecakes in a muffin tin , although I would recommend checking between 20 and 25 minutes with a toothpick . In my experience mini-cheesecakes were cooked until set entirely in the middle , but if your recipe is for an NY-style cheesecake that seems to wobble a bit , things might be different .
Cast iron is great for bacon , but not a grill pan . The bacon really needs to be floating on its own grease for nice even heating . The best bacon is cooked slowly . Preheat the pan so it is an evenly heated cooking surface , then slide you bacon on to the hot pan . By slide , I mean move it around on the pan before you drop it so the pan gets a coat of grease before dropping the bacon and getting it stuck on the hot pan . Let it cook at medium low heat , it will take longer but you 'll get less splatter , the bacon wo n't burn , and it wo n't dry out either , you also have a larger window of opportunity to pick up the bacon while it 's " just right " whatever that is for you .
If you are looking to fry veggies then yes it is nessassary to pre heat . If you put them in a cold pan and oil you start ' sweating ' the veggies not frying them . For example : a sliced onion put into a pan with hot oil will cook and have a nice golden brown color as it caramalizes . Put that same sliced onion in a cold pan with cold oil and then add heat the onion first turns translucent and looses moisture . Both of these cooking methods have their uses , but they are different . How do you know when the oil is ready to cook ? It will start to shimmer a little before it reaches the smokeing point . put the vegies in when you see this shimmer , or at the very fisrt wisp of smoke .
As you suggest , there are a number of factors , but the best rule of thumb I 've found for pan-frying is to use just enough oil to cover the bottom of the pan by swirling it around . In general , you do n't want puddles ( you 'll get splashed with hot oil ) , but if the pan is n't covered then your food might not get cooked evenly . These days I mostly just eyeball it , and err on the generous side . Using slightly too much is n't likely to hurt your dish - unused oil just wo n't get absorbed - but using too little will result in under-cooked or inconsistently-cooked food and probably a lot of gunk stuck to the bottom of your pan . So if you 're not sure , just add a little more than you think you absolutely need .
You can , but the surface-to-mass ratio means that the outer layers will overcook well before the inside is cooked , so unless you 're interested in that texture , your two main options are : Steam them ( add some liquid , then put a lid on it ) Cut them smaller . ( halve or quarter before you saute ) I tend to halve smaller ones , and quarter larger ones , cutting through the stem each time so they do n't fall completely apart while cooking ( after trimming a little off the stem if it 's showing signs of drying out ) . Then saute 'til the outside has browned a little bit , and hit with salt and whatever spices ( or bacon ... dice up some bacon and render the fat while you cut up the sprouts , then use the fat for cooking the sprouts )
Not much is out there . Food-grade silicone oil ( dimethylpolysiloxane , for the chemists out there ) is routinely used in medical and food-prep devices , and it has been approved by the US FDA Office of Food Additive Safety for use as a direct additive in diverse foods , like milk , dry gelatin dessert mix , canned pineapple juice , and even salt . Of course , we 're talking about minuscule amounts , in the range of 100 ppm ; at high concentrations , it is a skin and eye irritant . So what level is safe ? We ca n't assume that the FDA ever tested it , as the Office of Food Additive Safety is woefully underfunded . An informal literature search yielded me only a handful of scientific articles looking at silicone oil in frying . The most promising was by Bertrand Matthaus , Norbert Haase , and Klaus Vossman , " Factors affecting the concentration of acrylamide during deep fat frying of potatoes , " Eur . J. Of Lipid Sci . &amp; Tech. , V. 106 ( 11 ) , pp. 793-801 ( Nov 2004 ) ( fig. 3 specifically measures acrylamide concentration as a function of the amount of silicone oil ) . Unfortunately , I do n't have a subscription , so I ca n't tell what the bottom line was . Myself , I do n't see the benefit of using it at home .
Milk proteins , mostly . And some sugars that have been caramelized . This is an example of what one chef I know describes as " <URL> , " and is much like what happens when you sear a steak on the grill .
Greasing and lining with paper is something of a belt-and-braces approach to simply ensure the cake does n't stick to the bottom of the tin . I have several recipes that go one step further and suggest greasing the paper as well afterwards . As you suggest , greasing the tin first also stops it from curling up .
Grilling/broiling would be a good alternative to pan frying , as the more intense heat will crisp the skin much more effectively than baking . It is a generally healthier cooking method because the food is not sitting in oil ; any fat will drip off into the grill pan .
Worcestershire sauce is fairly sweet , it 's the sugar that 's blackening . There 's nothing you can do about it - if you add it to your pan it 's going to char . The solution is not to put it in the pan , but put it on afterwards or mix it in with the meat before making patties . You 'll get a better result that way as well , you 're destroying the flavor of the worcestershire sauce by charring it in the pan like that .
I use bleach to remove mold and mildew stains from my bathroom and while the process would be gross , I would think that once thoroughly washed the bleach would n't cause any harmful effects to the pan or to future snacking humans .
You 've got this all mixed up ! Unless you 're deglazing to do a pan sauce , the steak should be the LAST thing cooked . It 's the centerpiece of the dish and the most expensive part , and should n't have a chance to get cold while you cook the other parts . Saving cleaning on a single saucepan is not worth eating cold steak . You MUST use a stainless or cast-iron for this . As others touch on , teflon is not safe for searing , and fast temperature changes will wreck it . Here 's how to do things : Julienne onions to saute , prepare and measure stock , trim fat from steak , cut or butterfly it if needed ( this is your mise en place ) . Start preheating saute pan for onions Start butter melting in saucepan for roux Prepare roux and saute onions at same time , then add stock to roux , whisk , and season Transfer onions to bowl , cover to keep hot , and start to preheat pan for searing steak Cook steak while finishing sauce as needed , then rest it appropriately Plate steak , garnish , sauce , and serve Alternately , here 's another approach : Mise en place ( prep ingredients , optionally pre-measure them ) Prepare sauce in advance , set aside or keep hot . Or , even do it the day before and reheat it . It 's a roux-based sauce ; it wo n't go bad in the fridge , and will reheat beautifully . Saute onions . Or , caramelize onions beforehand , and just reheat them briefly and add . Cook steak Plate , sauce , serve And , finally the deglazed pan sauce way Mise en place Sautee onions . Set aside in bowl ( or on a serving plate ) Cook steak Throw heavy cream or red wine in to pan , and deglaze by scraping vigorously with a utensil and stirring as it boils vigorously Quickly season this , and throw in the onions , a few pinches of parsley , pepper , salt , garlic , and paprika , plus optionally thyme Congrats , you now have a pan sauce with onions to throw on your steak In a professional kitchen , you 'd have your onions pre-sauteed or sauteeing at the same time as the steak , and your sauce will be prepared in bulk , beforehand . You 'd only have to cook the steak and briefly heat or season the other two parts .
Pineapple contains <URL> , which is " one of the most popular proteases to use for meat tenderizing . " Since it 's sold as a meat tenderizer , I 'd say it really just depends on how long you marinate with it -- it 's possible to over-tenderize something . <URL> warns about over marinating , and mentions recommended times : The same process that tenderizes steak can also break it down into mush if you marinate it too long in the pineapple , and it 'll start distorting the meat 's color and taste . For cuts thinner than 1 inch , stick to about 10 to 15 minutes of soak time ; for moderately thick steaks of 1 to 1 1/2 inches , marinate for roughly 15 to 20 minutes ; and for thicker steaks , marinate for about 30 minutes .
Try cooking tomato sauce in a cast-iron pan some time ... You 'll learn a whole new meaning for " irony " . A non-reactive pan is one that allows you to cook or store acidic foods without dissolving , leaching , or otherwise causing contamination . Good materials for such pans include glass , stainless steel , food-grade plastic , ceramic , porcelain , and hard anodized aluminum . Bad materials include cast-iron , copper , and aluminum . Plastic bowls should be fine for most purposes , however keep in mind that small scratches in the plastic may harbor contaminants that will be freed by the acid . So clean them well , or switch to glass .
Well , there is a pan especially for flan ( Spanish ) , they call it the Flanera Flan Maker : It does n't appear to be intended for use with a bain marie , I 'm pretty sure it 's intended to eliminate any need for a bain marie ( although I have never used one for flan ) . Here 's the link : <URL>
<URL> has very good explanations about it . Let me sum of it up : The geometry of the wok is very important : better use of the surface area ability to shallow fry big items and deep fry small items with small amounts of oil . intense heat for low amount of fuel The temperature is also very important : caramelization ( or <URL> ) carbon steel , cast iron , stainless steel and others have different properties in terms of heat capacity and heat conduction .
The difference between sweet and tart cherries is not so much the sweet , but more the tart . If you look at the nutrition information you 'll find that tart cherries have about 2/3 as much sugar as sweet , but twice as much Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) which is what gives them their tart flavor . With this in mind , most sweet cherry pie recipes include lemon juice , while tart cherry pies recipes do n't need the lemon juice for balance . Recipes for both type seem to use between 1/2 to 1 1/2 cups of sugar , so as Stephie says , " It 's mostly a matter of taste " From personal experience - I made 2 cherry pies using a tart cherry pie recipe , except substituting Bing cherries . I got more great reviews for those pies than you would believe . ( It might have something to do with the sweet tooth gene on that side of the family )
end question
start question
Why should I wrap a cake tin in newspaper ?
A Christmas cake is a large cake and you 're cooking it for a long time . Insulating and padding the tin helps prevent the outside of the cake from scorching before the inside is properly cooked .
It is likely the same as a 14 oz can of tomatoes . From the Wikipedia article on <URL> : A standard size tin can is roughly 400g ; however , the weight can vary between 385g and 425g , depending on the density of the contents . UK shops <URL> tins of tomatoes quote 390-400 grams based on what I 'm seeing . This is equivalent to 14 oz . American cans will generally say the weight in ounces and in grams if you want to double check .
Would n't it have to do with insulation ? A heavy , well insulated cake pan results in less doming of the cake . If you 're baking a layer cake you want minimal doming which mean less trimming to get everything even . Also , I believe you 're supposed to get a more uniform texture since the rise is more even .
Given your lack of tools , we 're going to have to get <URL> on this roast . You 'll need some sort of flavorful liquid ( or a combination of them ) . Chicken stock or beef stock would work . I 'd normally also recommend using something acidic like red wine or tomatoes , however , using this method ( which is based on tinfoil ) , acids can react with the aluminum to produce off flavors . If you want to cook with wine or tomatoes , you can transfer the meat to your casserole after you brown it . ( More on this below . ) You 'll also need some type of mild tasting oil . Vegetable , corn , canola/rapeseed , peanut , light olive oil , will all work . Salt . That 's it in terms of software . Hardware : Paper towels . Tinfoil ( preferably the big , wide kind , and heavy duty ) . An oven . That 's it . Algorithm : This is basically the same technique that <URL> proposed , just using different tools . Adjust your oven 's rack to about 6 inches from the broiler . Turn on your oven 's broiler on its highest setting . Lay out two layers of tinfoil on your counter . Make sure the tinfoil is big enough such that if you were to place the roast in the middle of it there would be a border of tinfoil around the roast that is at least as wide as the roast itself . Optional : Put the tinfoil on a large sheetpan or cookie sheet . This will help you in transporting the device to/from the oven , and it will also ensure against spillage in your oven . If you do things right you wo n't have to wash the sheet . Pat the meat as dry as you can get it and put it in the center of the tinfoil . Pour a bit of oil on top of the roast and rub it all over . You only need enough to barely coat the entire roast . Generously salt both sides of the roast . I prefer using kosher salt , because it is less saline by volume , so you can more evenly distribute it without over-salting . You 'll probably use a good tablespoon or so . Put the roast under the broiler . Wait about 5 minutes , but that number is n't exact . Use your eyes . Just wait until it looks good and brown and crusty and delicious . Just do n't blacken the entire thing . When the top side is browned , flip it over to the other side . The best tool for the job here is a pair of tongs , but a fork will do . Brown the second side . Remove the roast ( which is hopefully on top of some type of pan for your convenience ) . Turn off your broiler and reset your oven to 275 degrees F. Fold up the sides of the tinfoil around the roast to make a sort of pan around it . Try to leave as little room around the roast as possible . Alternatively , if you want to use acidic ingredients , you can transfer the roast to the casserole at this point . The reason why you could n't use your casserole from scratch is that it is probably not broiler-safe . Pour in enough of the beef/chicken stock to just barely cover the roast . It should n't require very much liquid . Once the liquid is in , fold the tinfoil on itself to seal the top , such that you end up with a tinfoil package containing the browned meat and the stock . Try and make it airtight . Stick that in the 275 F oven . Just let it sit in there for ~ 3 hours . You do n't need to touch it . After ~ 3 hours , take it out . Hopefully the tinfoil did n't leak . If you did this correctly , all the cleanup you need to do is crumple up the foil and throw it out . You can also experiment with adding other vegetables ( e.g. , thinly sliced onions or whole garlic cloves ) . You can even add them from the very beginning . As I mentioned in a comment on <URL> answer , bottom round roasts have a lot of tough connective tissue which needs to be cooked low and slow ( < 300F ) in the oven in order to become soft and tender . However , if you were to cook the beef the entire way at that temperature the meat would end up being gray and tasteless . The reason is that the <URL> ( which are what turn the meat golden brown and make it taste more meaty and delicious ) do n't really occur below ~ 300F , which is the purpose of the initial sear .
I 've found a <URL> on Walmart.com that has some interesting tidbits . For functionality alone , looks like a glass jar should do the job well . Something like this would have an advantageous shape to make cookies easier to reach , and the jar less prone to falling . One feature you may want to look for specifically would be an hermetic sealing lid , which would help keep moisture in the jar and slow down the drying . Same kind of jar that is often used to store flour , sugar , coffee , beans , etc. . Is light sensitivity a factor ? I do n't think it would be , in most cases , unless you kept your cookies in an area that is heavily lit by the sun .
I come from a culture where rice is our staple and I have a rice cooker . Here are some of the advantages from my perspective : Rice is perfect everytime -- not stuck to the bottom , not watery , not mushy and stuck together , etc. . If you make rice in a pot , and the heat is too high , it will boil and spill over creating a mess . You can switch the rice cooker on and go do other things , whereas it is dangerous to walk away from a stove . The rice cooker can be used for other things such as cooking lentils and steaming vegetables . Rice cookers are cheap .
If you 're worried about the aluminum foil , you can always just use a covered casserole dish ... it might not hold all of the steam in , though . ( there are methods , like mixing a pough of flour and water , then using that to seal the lid on the pot ) . Also , if you 're worried , I 'd just consider not using acids , like lemon ; aluminum pots and pans react to acids , and I 'd only assume aluminum foil would to . You could also switch to parchment paper , which is the original for cooking ' en papillote ' ( in paper ) . But ' better ' is subjective -- easier to clean up ( aluminum foil wins , I think ) , cheap ( maybe the casserole dish , as it 's reusable ) , more impressive ( probably the parchment paper ) . As for spicing ... search for ' chicken en papillote ' on any internet serch engine and you 'll find lots of recipes .
Using both is fine . I would reserve some of the green end to sprinkle on top for presentation . The white part is stronger so you may want to add it a little at a time .
No . The fat content of goose , like most waterfowl , is very high . This makes it unsuitable for brining . Brining is intended to bring moisture to meats that tend to dry out , such as chicken and turkey . See <URL> to " <URL> " for more details .
You can just soak beans until they are ready to cook . Depending on the bean , it would have variable soak times ; but many beans left in water will come to a nice toothsome texture of their own accord ( bear in mind they will need to be either sprouted or cooked at the end ) . Assuming you have a watertight container for a serving of beans to store them while they soak ( I like small pyrex containers for portage ) , you could also toss them into the skillet or other cooking utensil to boil them . This way you could carry multiple days supply dry , which would make them light and not prone to spoilage but for the quantity soaking . Frequently , co-ops and health food stores have bulk bins with varieties of dried beans and charts detailing soak times ; you could mix your own medley by bagging a few different ones that all have approximately the same soak time .
Well there 's a few things . First , higher temperatures mean more volatile aroma and flavour compounds will be released , leaving a flatter-tasting stock . Second , boiling means more motion within the liquid , which makes it harder to skim off the protein scum which forms on the surface while a stock is cooking . In addition , some of the scum will just become reincorporated into the stock via a process similar to emulsion . Third , boiling induces faster breakdown of proteins and other particulate matter , leaving you with a cloudier end product . This is of course of very little concern for stocks which will end up incorporated into ( opaque ) soups or sauces . Of the three , only the first is of any real concern to home cooks . The other two issues are n't a huge deal at the restaurant level ( modulo need for clarity in consomme etc ) , particularly if the restaurant uses Superbags or algae filtration for clarifying stocks .
In most wheat-based recipes , gluten strands are formed while you work the dough . If you do n't rest the dough , rolling can be more difficult and you may get a tougher texture in the final product . Additionally , refrigerating the dough up to a certain point will firm up the fats in the recipe ( butter , etc ) , which will make the dough less mushy and will making rolling out the dough evenly a bit easier . Unless the dough is so firm it becomes brittle , refrigeration will make the dough less fragile in most cases . Perhaps less important , the moisture levels may become a bit more consistent throughout the dough as well .
Firstly - shop-bought " packet " bread will keep for several days because it contains a lot of preservatives . In his excellent book Bread Matters , Andrew Whitley claims that home-made sourdough breads with very long rises have better keeping properties than home-made bread made with baker 's yeast and short rises . This , he claims , is because the sourdough yeast cultivates a culture of friendly bacteria and an acid environment , all of which become natural preservatives . My experience seems to confirm this . Bread recipes containing egg , oil or milk tend to keep for longer than those without . As @SAJ14SAJ says , bread freezes very well . Loss of flavour in the freezer is not a commonly recognised phenomenon . One option is to slice a loaf of bread , bag it and freeze it . Take as many slices as you need at a time . It will defrost very quickly at room temperature , due to its low mass and high surface area . Another option is to make rolls , part-bake , and freeze . When you need them , take as many rolls as you need from the freezer , and place in the oven , to both defrost and complete the baking . You will get fresh baking smells and flavours from this . I suspect that home-made unleavened breads ( pita , chapati , tortilla ) , without added preservatives , will not last long out of the freezer . Their advantage is that with no rise , they are so quick to make that they can be made fresh on-demand .
There 's an old children 's story about making Stone Soup . In it , a penniless begger offers to teach people how to make his favorite recipe : soup , made from a stone ! He boils some water and drops a stone in , and while it 's " cooking " , keeps mentioning offhand things like " It 'd go great with some carrots " or " Celery would be lovely in this " . The townspeople rush off and get celery , carrots , potatoes , onions , and the like to add to the soup , until eventually , they 've made proper soup in his pot along with the stone . So basically , the whole " stone soup " thing was a clever con game by which the begger can eat for free ( or , in kinder versions than the one I recall , to trick the townspeople into learning a lesson about sharing ) . The stone adds nothing to the soup .
Glucose is very expensive , unlike caster sugar ( sucrose , also commonly called " table sugar " ) which does the job , and is much easier to work with . Glucose in the modern kitchen is only really used in meringues .
Reducing a mixture is simply boiling out water present in the solution . Adding a starch ( either cornstarch or other flours ) does n't remove that water but instead causes the starch to expand and " trap " some of the water . Cornstarch in particular <URL> when there is n't enough moisture in the base mixture , or if there 's too much fat or sugar present , so it 's not suitable for really rich sauces , for example <URL> . It also does n't work well in acidic mixtures like tomato sauce . The worst thing you can do for a cornstarch-thickened mixture is to cook it at a high temperature ( i.e. more than a moderate simmer ) or for an extended period of time . These will expand the starch granules so much that they pop , breaking the cornstarch and causing the sauce to thin again . So , be very careful of cooking temperature when using a cornstarch slurry . I have also found that cornstarch does n't respond very well to cooling and re-heating , so it 's not the best solution if you plan on saving some of the sauce for later use .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
I did this as an experiment last month , because I wanted a marble cake . The part that I wanted chocolate , I just swapped out a half-cup of the flour for cocoa . I should note , however , that while it tasted great , it made a denser , slightly drier cake than did the white cake batter . Next time , I plan to add a couple of teaspoons of grapeseed oil and some extra baking powder to counteract that problem .
Ah , you missed the obvious : pumpkin ! This is biologically a fruit , actually , as is the zucchini . Pumpkin loves same spices as carrot . Maybe even rum or butterscotch too . Now , beetroot is a veg and colors cakes delectably ; perhaps why it was originally added when going stingy on the cocoa . How about parsnip next ? Sweet and nutty , I think pistachios would complement it well in a recipe borrowed from zucchini bread . more veg here : <URL> p.s. if you have n't guessed Rabarber is rhubarb
I immediately thought of this table , from the front of the muffin section in <URL> * : The baking times are for 375-400F ; most recipes will fall around that range . Note that the yields do n't necessarily match up to typical pan sizes ; for example , if you take a recipe meant for 12 regular muffins , you 'll probably have more batter than you need for a pan of 6 oversized muffins . Similarly , if your recipe says to bake regular muffins for 30 minutes , you might have to bake miniature ones a bit over 15 minutes . " Muffin cake " refers to baking in an 8-9 " pan of some sort - the author says that you can get away with it for any muffin recipe , but I 've never tried it ! P.S. I know this is for muffins , but cupcakes are fairly similar , so I think it 'll be about right ! * At least , I 'm pretty sure it is . I have a copy of just this page ( for the recipe next to the table , actually ) , from a book my mom has . I recognize the cover , I know we had that book , I think this was in it , and Google book search somehow found it when I searched for " fresh-lemon muffins " .
end question
start question
Can I still cook on my propane grill with rust ?
Rust , or iron oxide , is not poisonous , unless consumed in large amounts . Thus it is relatively safe to grill on your barbeque . What about the people who get cut by rusty nails and get lockjaw ? That 's not due to the rust , but rather , due to the bacteria on the rust , which is called , <URL> , which is found in the soil , and presumably , the nails have had come in contact with the soil , and so actually contains some of these deadly bacteria , and so , when a wound is made by the sharp object , the sharp object ( nail ) will also infect the wound causing tetanus , or lockjaw . Which is totally irrelevant to your grill , as I assume , it has n't actually come in contact with the soil has it ? So , it 's safe , relatively
I 've never made Citrus Sugar , but I certainly have made vanilla sugar . Crystaline sugar soaks up the moisture , so if bacteria or mold were to invade the pot , it would be dehydrated quickly and would n't survive , let alone thrive . They need a good bit of moisture to reproduce . I 've never had a problem with my vanilla sugar and it does n't take long for the vanilla beans to turn into little vanilla toothpicks .
Because of the dairy products , you should n't leave it un-chilled for more than 4 hours . It 's always best to cover your food to prevent dust ( or cat fur , for example ) from covering it . Unless the frosting is really wet and gooey ( which might run into the cake ) , it 's OK to frost now .
If you have oven safe noodle bowls ( ceramic , not plastic ) then line them , as you describe with the foil , but do not remove them from the bowls . Bake your pie in the lined bowls , then remove the finished pies , with their aluminum " pan " intact . Or just make pasties ... no pan required . As you indicate you do n't have oven safe bowls and it must be a pie , I decided to experiment , using the double foil idea . I have heavy duty foil . I used a double layer and lined a noodle bowl making sure that there was plenty of foil out past the edge . I then pressed another noodle bowl on top of the two sheets of foil to make sure all is acting as a unit . While the top bowl is still in place , crumple up the excess foil , making a rim . This is what will give you the strength you need . I would then take the top bowl out , and line the now stable foil pie tin with your pie pastry . Fill the pie and if there is a top crust , finish the pie . You can now take the pie out of the noodle bowl and bake it as usual , although I would certainly do it on a baking sheet . The double foil is much stronger than you 'd expect , but the stability comes from the rim you build with the excess foil hanging over the edge . Here 's the finished bowl with the two molding bowls .
This is perfectly normal . Many people believe the flavor is most concentrated in those crystallized bits . Embrace it ! In fact , you want to avoid washing off the konbu before using it so as not to lose the white powder , which results from natural , slow , drying . <URL> <URL>
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
<URL> list chili powder as : 2 tablespoons paprika 2 teaspoons oregano 1 1/2 teaspoons cumin 1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder 3/4 teaspoon onion powder 1/2 teaspoon cayenne pepper , or to taste ( optional ) There are other mixtures , but this one seem basic enough . The " heat " comes from the cayenne pepper . The other spices round out the flavor . So I 'd mix everything but the cayenne pepper and use that mixture to cut your present chili powder .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
I second the recommendation for Lukas Volger 's <URL> . I 've been working my way through it and have made several of the recipes so far , all of which have been good . However , I would say that not all of the recipes in the book work well for the grill . I 've been doing everything vegan from the Volger book with mixed results . Many of the recipes use eggs , but you can do them with just breadcrumbs and water as the binder . They come out pretty delicate that way and are better in a skillet and then baked , as Volger recommends . His tofu and chard burgers use some tofu that has been browned then pureed as binder . This works ok , but the burgers came out quite delicate ( but still delicious ) . Silken tofu pureed in the food processor gets a thick , creamy texture that could also be used as a binder . Eggs are by far the most common binder as they may be the best edible binder there is , since they are basically liquid protein , but obviously not vegan . For delicate burgers , I use this <URL> on the grill , which works great . You can find something similar at most kitchen stores . Another binder option is steamed rice , prepared like you would for sushi . It gets sticky and makes a great binder , though they 'll still be a bit delicate . I 've been making the beet , brown rice and black bean burger recipe from Volger 's book . I add bbq sauce and a paste of pureed rehydrated prunes , similar to the veggie burger at Hillstone/Houston 's restaurant and they come out really great . They work fine right on the grill , though refrigerating them overnight makes them a little sturdier . Another option is adding vital wheat gluten and water , aka raw seitan dough . This is what is done in the <URL> black bean burger recipe . I tried these straight on the grill also and they stayed together perfectly , as well as any commercial veggie burger . However , they were a little bland and could use some more seasoning . I have n't tried any of these in burgers , but some common binders in vegan baking are peanut butter , apple sauce and <URL> . I bet peanut butter would work well in a burger with flavors that work with peanut , like Thai flavors or chipotle . Falafel-style burgers also do n't need any binders , they stick together pretty well and can be grilled , though you may want to use a grill grid or something similar . Lastly , you can put a cast iron skillet or pizza stone on the grill - it 's common now for grilled pizza and will work for delicate burgers .
In my view this is pretty simple : make things you want to eat . As long as you cast your net wide enough as you look for recipe ideas , there will always be new things that you 'd love to eat and will learn something from making . And as long as you want to eat the food , you 'll be motivated enough to actually follow through and do it . Most of the time , this will mean making things where you 're mostly comfortable with the recipe , but there are some new parts you have n't tried before . It might be new combinations of ingredients and flavors , which will broaden the creative side of your cooking . It might be new techniques , which will enable you to make more things in the future . To oversimplify , when you look at a recipe , if practically every step sounds new or difficult , maybe save it for later ; if most of it gives you an " I can do this " feeling , go for it ! It 's fine to take on bigger projects too , of course , as long as you go into it with the understanding that you might want to try parts of it by themselves first ( or that things might fail the first time ) . Either way , be sure to cast a wide net : skim cookbooks , read food blogs , browse recipe database sites or food photography sites , and so on . There 's always a lot out there that you 'll surely want to try and just do n't know it yet . But above all , just seek out things that look good to you ( or your friends/family ) . The rest will follow .
Standard tips for browning/frying/grilling tofu ; Ensure that you press the tofu sufficiently to remove its own moisture , marinate if desired Lightly dust with flour Brush oil on the grilling surface The same advice applies for pan frying . I prefer to work at a high temperature , others have had very good results using only medium . Use a very thin , flat metal spatula to turn . Specific to the case of grilling , be mindful of the gap the tofu will stretch across on the grate ; it may be crumbling because it is n't strong enough or thick enough to sustain wide gaps . Additionally you can pre-bake the tofu to dry it out further . I have heard tell that salting lightly with finely ground sea salt helps prevent sticking but have no experience with this , and have had good results without the added sodium . Typically the moisture in the surface of the bean curd is causing the sticking . Prevent or inhibit this and you should be good .
Assuming that they are uncooked , you can certainly simmer your brats in beer ( do n't let them boil , that will burst them ) . I 'd try to get a hold of some Red Hook and use that . Simmer them gently until they are almost done , about 15 minutes . Simmering in beer will only intensify the beeriness of the brat . If you like beer , go for it . If you 've got time , do one in advance and see how you like it . You can dilute the beer with water or broth if you find the test brat too strong . Consider adding some whole spices , garlic and onion to the beer and simmering them for 10 minutes before adding the bratwurst . Here 's a <URL> for exactly that . ( That recipe looks outstanding , BTW ) Cover the pan and let the almost cooked bratwurst cool in the beer ( seasoned or not ) . The recipe I linked to says to cool completely , but just 20 minutes or so is plenty . By then any carry-over cooking is done , but the brats would still be warm . Then just grill or brown on the stove just for browning , they will already be cooked through , so it 's just the browning that you 're looking for . Just let your eyes be your guide and do n't go past medium heat ( again , they will burst if your heat is too high ) .
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
A couple thoughts ... I have n't tried this , but I 've heard of people doing it . The microwave works relatively well to steam things . You could try " steaming " the dumplings in the microwave with a bit of water at the bottom of the dish or better yet , cover with a wet paper towel . You 'll probably need to do some experimenting unfortunately . Under " ideal " circumstances , I 'd probably prefer proper steaming , but this might work in a pinch . I imagine re-heating them would work well , but if cooking them works to your liking ... no sense cooking them twice . If you have a rice cooker , you could easily rig that up to " steam " as well . Just rig it up as if you were using a pot to steam it . Just make sure it is n't dry ...
Use a higher chicken-to-marinade ratio , so a small amount of chicken is n't sitting in masses of marinade . If you see chicken tikka marinading in a restaurant , you 'll note that is only lightly coated . Failing 1. , simply wipe off the excess marinade before cooking .
Yes , I 've heard this suggested , using wet/dry sandpaper and a mousepad . It is a very inexpensive way to match a whetstone , and you can use sandpaper with the same grit to produce an excellent edge . You duct-tape the sand-paper together so it wraps around the mouse pad , and then pull the knife along the sandpaper with the edge trailing . This is to say , you use sandpaper in the opposite direction as a whetstone . Once you work up to the finest-grit papers , you can use jeweler 's polish and a leather strop for a truly razor-sharp edge . Because the mouse pad 's rubber/foam has some give , this method produces a convex edge which remains sharp for longer that an V-cut , because it has more metal behind the edge . It also still presents a very sharp point for cutting , moreso than an equivalent V-cut front bevel . Using sandpaper will also cost a small fraction of what you spend on a good sharpening stone , which will run you $ 50 or more PER STONE . Wondering what grit to use ? There are comprehensive tables <URL> and <URL> . However , here is a quick-reference mini-table for you : Name / US Grit Rating / Use Coarse / 100-400 / Remove lots of metal . At the low-end of the range , used for reshaping blades , taking out large chips , or restoring snapped points . At the higher end of grit range , used to establish a bevel angle and restore very dull edges . Medium / 400-700 / Remove moderate amounts of metal . For refining an edge established with coarse grits , and for restoring moderately dull blades . Can be used to establish a bevel angle , but it will take considerably longer . 600 grit is a common point to start at for standard sharpening . Fine / 800-1200 / For finishing a blade or touching-up a slightly dull blade . At about 1000 grit , you will get something equivalent to a factory edge , assuming you use the same bevel angle . Ceramic steels have grits in this range . Extra-Fine / 2000 + / For polishing . Higher grits create a shinier and sharper edge , until at 8000 + grit you get mirror finishes and sharpness equivalent to a straight razor . If you 're going to bother using grits this high , a leather strop and polishing paste may serve you better than even a ceramic steel ; the steel would actually be reducing the edge sharpness with use . Source : <URL> Source2 : <URL> Edit : Another way to use sandpaper in sharpening -- expanding the grit range for a Spyderco Sharpmaker I 'm currently using sandpaper to make a very coarse stone for sharpening extremely dull edges on my Spyderco Sharpmaker . I wrap both of the normal triangular stones with a strip of emery cloth or 220-grit wet/dry sandpaper , and then hold it in place with medium binder clips . Since the lowest stone the Sharpmaker comes with is 800-grit ceramic , this saves HOURS versus using the normal stones . It is also considerably cheaper than the diamond stones they sell ; for a big tub of clips and a package of sandpaper , I paid $ 7 , versus about $ 37 for the diamond rods .
The easiest method , and most common in a commercial setting , would be to add a small amount of yeast in addition to the sourdough starter . You will probably have to reformulate a bit , as the dough will mature faster leaving the starter less time to develop flavor . This is usually overcome by also increasing the proportion of starter ( and adjusting the final dough 's hydration based on the hydration of your starter ) . For instance , if your original recipe included 30 % starter ( in baker 's math ) , the faster version might have 40 % starter and .5 % yeast . If you use a liquid starter , you may then cut the water by 5 % or so , and if you use a solid starter no further adjustment may be needed .
Agree with @Daniel that fillets can be done on the grill , but in my experience a tender fish like Tilapia will break up and fall through the grill . Unless you have a finely meshed grill and a lot of cooking experience I would avoid it . Tuna , swordfish , mahi-mahi and salmon steaks all work well on the grill . But this should not stop you from grilling Tilapia or any other tender fish , just put it on the grill whole ! For Tilapia I would do something like below . Make shallow slashes in the thickest parts of the flesh , coat with olive oil , season with your favorite spices , and then grill for 3 to 5 minutes max each side on a hot grill . You can mostly judge by sight . When it still looks like it needs another minute I always sacrifice my piece , take it off the grill , and pry off one of the thicker parts . If it 's still raw looking on the inside , let it and the others go for another 30 seconds on each side . Nothing better than perfectly cooked moist fish and nothing worse than dry overcooked fish and the difference between the two can be as little as 1 minute . Note : it might be obvious to many , but using a whole fish implies that you 've " cleaned " the fish first by removing it 's innards before any other preparation . If you really want to do fillets for a delicate fish on the grill then just coat them in oil , and wrap in tinfoil with a slice of lemon or whatever you prefer . Again , sacrifice a piece to check for doneness . Tinfoil will not magically keep the fish moist if you overcook it . Using foil you wo n't get the flavor of the grill , but then again picking all the broken pieces of each fillet off the hot coals is a bit too much grill flavor IMHO .
Fire is typically a poor heat source for direct cooking . It fluctuates with every breeze so the heating is very erratic . It also produces a lot of soot which tastes terrible and is bad for you . When cooking on a campfire much better results are had by cooking next to the coals than above the flame . Cooking with a gas flame is more reliable of course . A couple direct cooking applications of fire in the kitchen , that I can think of are : Flambe : Lighting a sauce which contains a lot of alcohol to burn off some of the raw alcohol taste . Roasting : Putting a steaming basket over a gas flame and charring the skin of peppers or eggplant . Caramelizing : Using a blowtorch to put a crust on creme brulee or to sear the exterior of a sous vide steak . I would recommend starting with the blowtorch for several reasons : It is harder to burn your house down with a torch than with a pan of flame . Blow torches are useful for things outside of the kitchen like stripping paint or starting the grill . There is something deeply satisfying about wielding a hissing , blue , knife of fire that appeals to the caveman within . As for safety . Keep a fire extinguisher on hand . Do n't let kids or pets in the kitchen when you are playing with fire . Keep your home owner 's insurance current .
The best I can offer you comes from <URL> : The gelation of egg yolk can be partially reversed by heating after thawing . This treatment improves the functional properties of proteins . The stiffness of the gels obtained after frozen storage can be reduced by more than 50 % and become pourable at 21 ° C by heating up to 45 ° C for 1 h. Eggs do n't actually start to set until you hit 63 ° C , so if I had previously-frozen eggs , I would heat them as the above paragraph suggests . Just be very careful not to use too much heat . You wo n't get perfect eggs , but they 'll be edible .
end question
start question
How is Botan ( the Japanese rice candy ) made ?
Do you mean this one ? <URL> . If so , in Japan it is actually known as <URL> ( meaning pomelo candy ) as shown in this description . Here is a <URL> to how a similar milk version is made ( I think you would use mandarin/pomelo ( bontan ) juice in there somewhere for what you want ) , but it is in Japanese ... Perhaps the pictures will help but ... sorry , I do n't know if it 's ok to translate this ... but it says : milk 500ml , sweet glutinous rice 500g , sugar 500g , mizuame ( maltose ; could use corn syrup instead ) 600g , potato starch 200g , and a tray 31cmx24cmx3 .5 cm . Briefly , it says to soak the rice for half a day , then drain , and blend with the milk for 2-3 mins . Transfer to a pot and simmer on medium heat for 20-30 mins . Add sugar in a few lots , mix until dissolved . Drop to low heat , add mizuame and stir/knead very well - the firmness of the final candy will depend on how long you do this . Dredge tray with a thick layer of potato starch then pour the mixture in . To harden , refrigerate when cool .
Japanese spicy mayo is made with <URL> and <URL> . You really just mix them to taste .
I do n't agree with Manne on storing rice . If you refrigerate what you do n't use , then long grain rice could be used for a rice salad ( similar to pasta salad ) or fried rice . You might be able to use short grain rice in a rice pudding . But once the vinegar and sugar is added to make sushi rice -- I would n't try saving it for sushi -- it 's not going to have the same consistency the next day , and I really do n't think it would work . You 'd be better off making a vegetable roll or two with the leftovers and chilling that for the next day . Off hand , I 'm not sure where I might re-use leftover sushi rice where the consistency was n't an issue ... maybe a rice-based casserole ? As for the nori -- I use a zip-top bag , and compress the air out , and have n't had any problems .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
Inside the rice cooker , there 's a thermostat monitoring the bowl 's temperature ( and kept in firm contact with the bowl via the spring ) . As long as the temperature does n't go above the boiling point of water , the rice cooker keeps cooking . Once it goes slightly above that point , the water must have all boiled off or been absorbed , and that means the rice is done , so the cooker switches to a much lower " keep warm " setting . This approach works only for foods that start wet and are done once the standing water is gone , which is why automatic rice cookers are common but there 's no comparably simple way to automatically cook pasta . Fancy rice cookers can be far more elaborate ( with microprocessors and whatnot ) , but simple rice cookers are very simple indeed , with no timing mechanism at all . This means they rely on putting in an appropriate amount of water for how much rice you are cooking . If you put in too little water , the rice cooker will stop when it 's gone but the rice wo n't be done . If you put in too much , you 'll get overcooked rice . Fortunately , rice is not super sensitive and you do n't have to measure carefully , but you need to get it approximately right . For different amounts of rice , you just have to scale the water accordingly . For lentils or beans , you 'll have to use a different water ratio , and you should look it up for the beans you have in mind ( and to make sure they can be cooked reasonably in a rice cooker in the first place ) ; I do n't know how to predict it from first principles .
Well in Chinese cooking we use a wide variety actually . Typically speaking ... Medium or Long Grain Rice White Rice Fried Rice Sweet Rice or Glutinous Rice Sticky Rice ( You commonly see this at Dim Sum places in the sticky rice dishes wrapped in lotus leaves , among other places . ) There are others of course , but those are the common ones you 'll find since you were asking about Chinese Takeout . The shorter the grain , the more " sticky " it will be . However , that does n't mean that long grain rice should come out grainy either . I suppose different restaurants will do it differently , around here they generally use long grain rice for " white rice " . This is how my mother taught me to make rice : Wash Rice a few times till there is n't any more murkiness . Add water till it reaches your first knuckle on your pointer finger when the tip is just barely touching the rice ( should generally work for any amount of rice ) . Bring to boil , turn to simmer . Check back in 10 to 15 minutes If the water is mostly gone , and it is n't at the texture you like , you can always add a bit more water . Let it sit for a few minutes after the heat is off . In China , you 'll find all different grains . I 've seen both short and long grains , and have seen plain white , long grain rice served as well .
-18 ° C ( -0.4 ° F ) is not too low for storage ( as this would be the normal temperature of a <URL> , where I store my ice cream and frozen yogurt . I definitely would n't set the temperature higher if I store also other stuff in the same freezer ) . For serving you would probably want to let it sit out a little bit , so that it softens up a little so that you can scoop it ( same as with ice cream ) . If it is way too solid , you maybe let it thaw too much before storing . Then , you can fix the texture by re-blending it in a mixer ( you can get even more ideas if you search for recipes on " how to make a frozen yogurt/ice cream without an ice cream maker " - often it involves freezing in an ice cube tray for easier blending ) . Or by thawing it again and using an ice-cream maker to get the desired texture .
Quinoa . I only recently discovered it as part of doing P90X , and man , it 's so , so delicious . It 's kind of a nutty flavour that goes really well with sauces . It 's also pretty high in protein , which is good . Note that this is n't " no-carb " , though it is lower in carbs than rice . It 's important that you wash quinoa before you prepare it . Otherwise , it 's prepared in a very similar way , 2-1 water-to-quinoa , boiled and simmered .
The basis for any sort of Japanese soup dish is going to be dashi stock , a stock made of fish and seaweed . It has a much lighter flavor than chicken broth , so you might not have identified it easily . You can buy it in a powder form for convenience , and it can be sprinkled into other liquids rather than reconstituted . <URL> is for soba with a dipping sauce , but it 'll give you a good idea of the flavor profile you 're looking for : Dashi stock plus <URL> , which is made of soy sauce , mirin , and sugar ( and simmered so it 's not strongly alcoholic ) .
As I am sure you can tell by looking at it , your Japanese knife is primarily sharpened only on one side . As a result , the cutting edge is angled more steeply . Japaneseknives on Wordpress has some <URL> illustrating this . This asymmetry is why you ca n't reliably use a honing rod on it , which relies on swipes to both sides of the edge to keep the blade smooth and free of burs . The steeper angle makes the blade sharper , but you could say it is a double edged sword that can also make it prone to wearing more rapidly , depending upon how it is treated . As a result , sharpening only once a year may not cut it . There is <URL> on Korin 's website that might be more helpful to you , including an informative video . L'Ohira 's Knife Care &amp; Sharpening page has some good tips on the type of kit you might want to use , including 3 grades of water stones , though you may or may not need the course all that much : Arato : A coarse grit stone used mainly for damaged edges and for creating new sharp edges . Nakato : A medium grit stone used for minor repairs and creating sharp edges . Shiage : A fine grit finishing stone . Much of that information is also covered in the Korin sharpening video . Also , since the knife is carbon steel , it can rust . Based on your question , it sounds like you probably take good care of your knives anyway , but you should especially make sure you clean this one promptly when dealing with acids .
I do n't think the amount will matter too much for cooking , just may take a bit longer , but a thermotor should help there . What I would consider doing is make the crown out of the three like you had planned and cook the fourth seperatly ( but at the same time ) . When the lamb is done carve the extra rack ( by the single bone ) and use it to garnish the crown either inside the crown poking out , or infront of the crown laying on their sides so everyone can see how perfect the lamb is cooked ... so everyone will be impressed with both the pretty crown and how well the meat is perpared .
I usually pop my rice into a pan , shake the pan to even the rice out across the bottom of the pan . I then add cold water to cover roughly half way up my thumb where my thumb is touching the surface of the rice . Place onto the hob and quickly bring to the boil and then immediately turn down to the lowest setting on the smallest ring and cover with a lid . Leave the rice to cook for around 30-35 minutes . Do n't be worried if it looks like it 's going to dry out , the steam in the pan under the lid will keep things moist . Do n't be tempted to remove the lid to check on things , you 'll lose all the moisture/steam and it 'll dry out/stick .
Mustard is one of those simple condiments to make , and is fun to experiment with . At it 's most basic mustard is two ingredients : Mustard Seed Liquid There are endless variations from there . Mustard seed comes in white , yellow , brown and black variations . I suggest buying whole and grinding them yourself using either a mortar &amp; pestle or coffee/spice grinder . ( Do n't use a coffee grinder that you use for grinding coffee ! You 'll end up with mustard flavored coffee ) . Liquids can be water , vinegar , wine , or even beer . Using vinegar/wine will help it last longer than water or beer would . Once you 've fine ground ( of course there are coarse ground varieties too ) your mustard simply mix it with the liquid until it is the desired consistency . Additional ingredients can be added to taste . Honey , turmeric ( gives yellow mustard its color ) , sugar , etc. are all possibilities . Update : I forgot to mention that mustard needs time for the flavors to mix . This can take anywhere from a few hours to weeks . A fresher mustard tends to be hotter , but an aged mustard can often taste " better " with a slight loss of that initial heat . Refrigerated mustard will keep it 's heat longer . Also note , mustard made with water should definitely be refrigerated and consumed quicker than others .
The rind of Brie is <URL> it 's a completely harmless fungus which gives brie its taste . You can eat it , or not , up to you : you are supposed to . If it smells very strongly of ammonia the cheese is just a bit too ripe but it wo n't do you any harm .
Hot water and detergent might be enough , but after serious mold growth , I 'd use a disinfectant . The easiest way to do this would be to disinfect your cooker with bleach , which is very effective at killing mold on non-porous surfaces . After thoroughly washing and rinsing your cooker , make a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part bleach and allow it to soak in your cooker for a few minutes , then dump it out and allow the cooker to air dry . <URL> ( note that the caveat here is that bleach is n't effective for porous surfaces . Anything that you 're cooking on should be an acceptable surface for using bleach on . )
Interesting question . Did search ' how do I make puffed rice ' . Came up with some interesting information . There are some writings that suggest that puffed rice can be made like popcorn ; get the moisture in the grains of rice to the correct level ( no idea what the level should be , experimentation should guide you I suppose ) and then ( depending on what source you read ) put in a popcorn popper , put it on sheets in the oven or fry it in oil . The history indicates that the first puffed rice made in the U.S. was actually shot from a cannon , after , I presume , being thoroughly soaked to some level of softness ; there was a cereal advert in the '60s that bragged " this is the cereal that 's shot from guns " . Am thinking that the softening of the rice , probably by cooking , and then putting it into a pressure vessel in which the pressure is allowed to rise to a certain PSI ( pounds per square inch ) and explosively releasing the pressure , causes the grains to boil or fizz or effervesce , gives them the light puffiness we see at the market . If I 'm reading the information correctly , the devices to make puffed rice are available Here is a link to a video showing the explosive creation of puffed rice by a traveling puffed rice manufactury on a bicycle in Taiwan ; <URL> Here are some other links , kind of vague , regarding non explosive puffed rice : <URL> <URL> <URL> This last link has some history &amp; speculation of how puffed rice has been made non explosively using hot salt , or sand ... did n't read all of the ideas . Have fun , and be safe .
In general , the stickiness of rice can be reduced by removing some of the starch by pre-soaking and/or <URL> . For sushi rice , chewiness can be increased by <URL> . For what do you use oil ? I do n't believe that is a traditional ingredient in sushi rice .
It 's an issue of thermodynamics . When you 're cooking food , the food cools itself off through evaporative cooling and the energy being used to cause chemical changes in the food ( eg , caramelizing sugars ) . If you have too much food in the pan , the balance is overwhelmed by evaporative cooling , and thus you can only get to the boiling point of water . To change the equation , you need to do one of the following : Use a more powerful heat source . Cook less food at a time Reduce the amount of moisture in the food before cooking it . You 'll often see advice for # 3 -- such as patting dry steak or chicken before grilling it , as without it , you wo n't get good browning . You ca n't do that when you 're dealing with sauces . You can try cooking less , but with sauces you cause more problems -- if the pan size is the same , the area for evaporation is the same , so you do n't really improve the balance . With a sufficiently sized burner , you can actually heat sauces above the boiling point , as you 're putting in energy faster than evaporation can cool it . This which will change the chemical reactions that occur , thus the resulting chemical compounds and the resulting flavor of the food .
There is a particular baked good called kastera in Korea , but they pretty much use the term as a generic name for any Western-style sweet cakes ( source : my Korean mother-in-law ) . So the answer is yes and no . You will find a kastera equivalent to Japanese kasutera , but it is a subset of the kastera set . The closest comparison I can think of would be the term " barbecue . " It would very specifically mean slow-smoked meat in certain regions of the United States . In other regions , " barbecue " is a bigger tent , and includes , among other things , anything that is cooked on a grill .
I 've done risotto with other short grain rices ( which includes sushi rice ) , with good results . I 've even used medium grain rice in a pinch , and you 'll have to stir more , but it 'll come out . I 'd assume the same would be true in reverse -- that most short grain rices ( incl . arborio ) would make a decent sushi ... unless it 's short grained brown rice , that 'd likely less you up . Basically , there 's three main varieties of rice : short , medium and long ( not including ' wild rice ' or how it 's treated ( white vs. brown vs. parboiled ) . So long as you stay within one group , you 're usually fine , so long as you do n't change the treatment or technique used to cook it .
end question
start question
How should I care for my knives ?
Technique Always use a cutting surface made for a knife , particularly a wooden chopping board/block . Avoid contact with hard surfaces such as metal , glass , or stone ; these will quickly cause dulling or even chipping of most knives . Also avoid cutting frozen items , for the same reason . Use the dull end ( " top " ) of the knife for scraping food off surfaces , or use a scraper or spatula instead . Knives are meant to cut straight , along the edge ; scraping one sideways across any surface will misalign the edge very quickly . Do not use more force than necessary . A sharp knife should cut with very little effort . The more pressure you apply , the faster it will dull . Use a <URL> for bones or other very hard foods . General-purpose chef 's knives or smaller knives are n't appropriate for this task , and may chip or even snap . General Care Wash or rinse knives promptly after use . The moisture in many foods can be acidic and/or corrosive to the metal ( fruits , onions , etc. ) . Dry knives immediately with a soft cloth or towel . Stainless steel is resistant to rust and corrosion but not immune . This goes for all metal but especially knives , because even an imperceptible amount of rust along the edge will drastically hinder its ability to cut . Air-drying may also leave you with stains or " spots " due to salts and other trace minerals in the water . Store knives in a dry , open area , away from other objects , to avoid moisture build-up , impacts , and secondary rust . <URL> . A knife in a dishwasher is subject to impacts , corrosion , and warping of the wooden handle/joint . Quality knives should be hand-washed . Honing Honing a knife is a good way to restore a slightly dull knife . You will need an <URL> ( sometimes misleadingly referred to as a sharpening steel ) , which can be bought inexpensively . Note that <URL> ; the best value tends to be in the $ 30 ( USD ) range . Honing is not the same as sharpening . Honing helps to align the existing edge , which becomes skewed or " curled " after regular use . It will not help to create a new edge if the knife is damaged , e.g. if it is corroded or chipped due to not following the " General Care " advice above . To hone a knife : Keep the honing steel vertical . Hold the knife at a slight angle to the steel . Stroke downward and towards yourself . Alternate strokes , and do an equal number of times on both sides . Here is a <URL> . Sharpening <URL> involves a whetstone ( AKA <URL> ) and is an art unto itself . <URL> , however , the technique takes a long time to master and most home cooks will prefer to leave this to a professional . If you find that regular honing is no longer effective at maintaining a knife 's edge - and if it 's been well-maintained , this should take several weeks or months - then it 's time to get the knife sharpened . An alternative to professional sharpening ( or learning to use a whetstone ) is to use a good-quality motorized electric sharpener , such as the <URL> . This will obviously not yield the same result as a professional sharpening , but it is very convenient and fast . Some people believe that all electric sharpeners will damage your knives . This may still be true of the cheaper , single-stage sharpeners , because they do a lot of grinding and generate a lot of heat . However , the more modern , higher-end sharpeners operate very quickly , have precise angle control , and use multiple stages mimicking the manual process ( grinding , steeling , stropping ) . The " grinding " stage on a multi-stage sharpener should only be used if the knife is already badly damaged , and will actually create a new edge . If your knife is in reasonable shape , then it 's fine to use a good sharpener on a semi-regular basis as long as you do n't grind too much . ( Honing should still be your primary form of maintenance ) . Yet another option , if you 're on a tight budget , is to <URL> . Follow the link for additional information on technique , grit , and tutorials .
I feel your pain . If only I liked summer squash better ... You definitely can freeze squash -- thick slice it , blanch it in salty water briefly until almost tender , transfer to an ice bath until it 's chilled , bag it , and put in the freezer . Later , thaw and use with recipes that do n't require ultra-crisp squash .
Not long at all . Usually 1 minute is enough . If it starts to turn brown , it 's been in there too long .
I would consider the professional equivalent of the electric carving knife to be the meat slicer , i.e. the rotating blade device most often seen behind the deli counter . At home , to break down a roast bird , take the meat off of a lamb-leg , etc. , a good manual knife is most likely the proper tool . If , on the other hand , I have a large ham ( cooked or cold ) , or some other chunk of boneless meat that I want to slice more-or-less uniformly , then I will break out my electric knife . For the home user , it is a fairly practical device , not taking up too much space , etc. . But its uniformity and speed can not compare to the slicer . As to a professional kitchen , you may or may not find one there . Certainly in deli-type restaurants you would have them . In a more traditional restaurant they are not as concerned with quick production of sliced meat , so any slicing is probably done by hand .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
Prime rib is usually sold two ways , Bone-In or Bone-Out . For a Bone-In prime rib an 8 pound should serve you well , for a Bone-Out , Six will do nicely . I would also highly recommend you refer to the prime rib narrative of " <URL> " to learn how to prepare your roast . [ Edit ] Most restaurants that I have either had or seen Prime Rib served at will offer 10 oz or 12 oz serving size , with some variations in the overall 8-16 oz ( 225g - 450g ) range . Appetites will vary from person to person , and you may wish to not serve the ' heals ' as they will be more well done than the center , though some guests may prefer this . . so , ' your-mileage-may-vary ' . The very size of beef ribs makes serving them ' bone-in ' impractical , as it results in a serving that is too thick for a single serving ( though some restaurants do this for eye-appeal ) . For your home dinner party I would not recommend planning based on ' bone count ' . Even if you buy and cook your roast " bone-in " your first cut after preparing and resting the meat should be to remove the bones from the roast . Since leftovers are goal you have set for this preparation you may wish to then slice the roast " on the bias " ( about a 15 ° -20 ° angle from perpendicular to the bone section ) as it will produce a larger footprint on the plate . The ends will provide you with good meat to include in a soup or slice up for sandwiches .
There are several cola recipes on <URL> . Recipe 2.6 references a kola extract recipe from the following book : Food Flavourings , by Joseph Merory , AVI Publishing Company , 1960 . I 'd assume that the kola nuts are added as in pieces , similar to how they are consumed - Kola nuts are consumed by breaking them open and into pieces .
Personally when ever I do Swiss rolls or anything requiring me to roll or manipulate the sponge in any way I 'll use a Genoise sponge recipe . It 's a bit more effort to make than a bog standard pound cake recipe but worth it . While still warm I 've managed to roll it anywhere between 2mm thick and 3cm with little or no cracks or splits . In my opinion the optimum thickness for a full sized Swiss roll is around 1cm thick , but obviously if making canape sized versions you 'll be looking more towards the 2mm thickness .
100 ° C for 7 hours sounds just about perfect . The meat will be meltingly tender by then . In fact I think you could go even lower on the temperature if you like , say 80 ° C or 90 ° C. Of course , if you want to be absolutely sure , check with the thermometer , but unless you know that your oven is unreliable or you happen to be in possession of the largest pig shoulder in the world I am 100 % sure it will be more than done in 7 hours on 100 ° C. Good luck !
Although this is partially personal preference , in general you should have the uncut ingredients on the side of your non-cutting hand . This will set up a logical flow of material which keeps you from having to reach over your cutting hand . If you chop with your right then you 'd have the uncut ingredients on your left , as after knife work your chopped ingredients will be on the right of the knife . Everything else comes from this . If you are chopping a lot of ingredients it makes sense to have a few bowls handy to put the chopped ingredients into so you can keep your board clear . My workflow is based on the assembly line principle - that is do all of one type of task before moving onto another to limit the amount you have to move : before chopping I get bowls for each of the chopped ingredients ( stackable stainless steel bowls from a kitchen supply store are great for this as they clean easy and take up little space ) , and array the bowls to the right of the board . Then I wash all the ingredients , peel them , and prep them at once rather than doing it individually per ingredient and place them to the left of the board , so I have all my ingredients ready to chop . Then I take each type of ingredient and chop them one at a time , saving any messy ( tomatoes , cheeses ) or possibly contaminating ones ( meat , seafood ) for last , as I will have to clean the board , my hands , and the knife after possible contaminators to prevent cross-contamination . As the board fills for each ingredient I will transfer the chopped ingredients to the bowls , but I wait until I need the space to continue cutting - if you move the chopped ingredients each time you finish chopping one of them then you waste time moving your arms and body around . This is the fastest way I have found to get a lot of ingredients processed . If you wash , prep , peel , chop and move each ingredient individually you spend a lot of extra time moving around the kitchen .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
It really depends on the texture you are looking for in your finished product . If you want a chunky chicken salad then bake your chicken breasts seasoned or not , I season mine , and then cube them . If you want something a little more exciting pan grill the breasts to the point of a little char and then dice . If you want your chicken to be flavorless and get all of your flavor from the mix you are tossing your chicken into , boil it or put it in a slow cooker if you are cooking up a big batch . It all really comes down to how you like to eat your chicken salad , and more importantly how pretty you want it to look in your serving method , because a cajun blackened chicken salad sandwich can look down right homely . I say try them all until you fall in love with one temporarily and when that has lost its passion try a different version . Also as a side note if I am preparing it for me and not for someone else , so it does n't have to be all white and pretty , I use thighs instead of breasts since they are more forgiving and generally cheaper . If I am not just breaking down a whole chicken and using the leftovers .
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
Go for 145 . 2 hours . Salmonella dies even at " low " temperatures ( from 135 ) as long as you cook it for longer . 135 for at least 87 minutes , will kill salmonella . However , I like it best when cooked at 145 for 2 hours .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
Hard , aged cheeses like cheddar and Parmesan are fine to freeze , particularly if you 're going to be melting them when you get around to using them anyway . Freezing causes ice particles to break up the molecules of the cheese , and when they thaw , they leave holes in what was ( prior to freezing ) a pretty smooth cheese . So you might notice if you freeze blocks of cheese , they are more crumbly when you unfreeze them than they were when you bought them . The cheeses you 're working with should be fine if stored properly , but softer / creamier cheeses ( brie , harvarti , etc. ) might become somewhat unpleasant if you freeze them . As far as storage is concerned , you can actually do one of two things : Grate the cheese before you freeze it . All you need to do for this method is grate your cheese and put it in a ziploc freezer bag ( thicker than a regular zip-top bag ) . Just make sure to squeeze the air out before sealing , and seal it well . Freeze the cheese in blocks . Wrap them in plastic wrap and then put then in a ziploc bag , and you should be all set ; it 'll keep for 4-6 months . ( <URL> ) No matter which method you use , you may notice a slight change in texture . Make sure you thaw the cheese before using it . ( Though I 've put frozen shredded mozzarella on pizza and frozen shredded Mexican cheese blend - a blend of cheddar , monterey jack , queso blanco and asadero - on tacos and not had any trouble . )
I 've noticed that salty food has somewhat of an addictive quality ; people who eat a lot of it ( i.e. fast food or other processed food ) tend to bury their meals under a mountain of salt , whereas people such as myself who do a lot of home cooking hardly use ( or want ) any . " Season to taste " means pretty much what it sounds like ; add however much salt ( and other spices ) that you , personally , like the taste of . If you have a habit of eating a lot of salty foods , then you might want to add a little less than that , for the benefit of people like me who gag at heavily-salted foods . If you use a lot of other spices , you wo n't need much salt - a few shakes of the shaker is enough . If the food is basically bland aside from the salt ( and maybe pepper ) , then you 'll need to use more . The best thing to do is add a little , then taste , and repeat as many times as it takes to get the flavour you want . If the food you 're seasoning is still raw ( and ca n't be eaten raw ) , then just put in a small amount the first time you make it and keep track of how much table salt you needed to add . Just remember , you can always add salt later , but a dish that 's too salty is permanently ruined .
It really depends on what you are looking for in a cooking class . I can give you some thoughts from my own personal experiences , but I am sure there are many factors that you must consider , so you will get a variety of answers . I am assuming you are talking about recreational ( that is the industry term , as opposed to professional ) classes ; I do n't claim to have good advise for choosing professional programs to become a line cook or patisserie on a career path to being a chef or pastry chef . Facilities The cooking school should tell where their class is taught . A local community class in a high school home-ec room or in a community center will usually offer basic facilities ( although I imagine some will stun you ... ) Commercial cooking schools or businesses should have photos of their classroom for you to peruse , and will usually brag about the equipment they offer ( such as Viking stoves ... ) Look at the pictures , and ask if the environment will be comfortable for you . Level How advanced is the class ? If you already know how to temper your own chocolate , and own three dipping forks , you do n't want to take a basic workshop in chocolate . On the other hand , if you have never made a biscuit , you might not want to take an advanced pasty course where croissants and puff pastry the order of the day . Choose a class that is at the level you desire -- the course guide should make this very clear . Cleanup Find out if the school has interns , or other staff who do the cleanup . Commercial schools tend to -- otherwise , you might expect to be helped police and do dishes , especially in a community program like one hosted at a community center . You should be comfortable with the expectation . Curriculum or Menu Good cooking classes list exactly what dishes or items will be taught in the class in their class guide or curriculum . They should also specify the lessons learned or techniques applied . Often there is a theme , like " Valentines Dinner for Two " or " Pastry Intensive " Select classes that teach the techniques you want , and dishes you like . Duration Is it a one evening class , where you are in and out , and little is at risk , or a week long adventure where if you do n't enjoy the format or the instructor , you have lost a week 's tuition and a week 's enjoyment . I once did n't come back from lunch on the 2nd day of a five day course because I did n't like the instructor 's style . For longer classes , you might ask for guarantees of a partial refund if the instructor or style or presentation is not to your liking , before signing up . For day long and longer classes , find out if lunches or other relevant meals are provided ( at commercial schools , they often are , either cooked as part of your curriculum , or done by staff or interns for your enjoyment ) , or whether you bring your own . Often there is not enough time to go out for lunch . Presentation and Participation There are several main ways cooking classes are taught ; you want to be sure the style is one that you enjoy . Presentation only -- the instructor prepares dishes at the front of the room , and the students watch . Kind of like a cooking show on TV , but live and in person , so you can smell ( and maybe taste afterwards ) , and ask questions . Each person ( or group ) prepares some -- the class is broken up into groups or individuals , each of whom prepare one or more dishes from the menu . You might not get to do the dish you wanted from the curriculum , but you will get hands-on for something . Usually , the groups will share afterwards , so you get to taste everything . Every person ( or group ) prepares everything -- you will get to prepare everything listed in the curriculum , and usually eat it . Choose a format you are comfortable with , especially if you want to be sure you get to try a specific dish hands-on . Pacing When you evaluate the curriculum or menu , the manner of presentation , and the overall duration of the course , you should have some idea of how fast it goes . Make sure you are comfortable with the pace . If you like a slow and pleasant pace , you do n't want to be a in class where folks are expected to knock out their dishes fast -- although those are often more the advanced classes at commercial schools . Ingredients Find out whether you bring your own ingredients , or they are supplied . ( Most commercial cooking schools supply them , but community programs may not . ) Cost Cost counts . Need I say more ? General Talk to the folks at the school 's customer service line ( if they have one ) if you have questions . Take a short class at the school to evaluate the facilities and their general style before splurging on a longer or more expensive class . And bring your patience . By the nature of the beast , you often sit through things you know , or repetitions , or have to wait through lectures and demos before the hands-on portion . If you can , bring a friend to share the experience , gossip with , and generally have a good time , should you be so disposed . Bon
Ok , first of all make sure you are getting French or Italian truffles , not Chinese or Oregon . Some people like the latter but they are quite a bit different . Black truffles do well cooked , while white truffles are usually only used shaved raw over a dish . When I use them , I like to use them in a situation where I will really be able to taste them . A few classic ideas are an omelette , risotto , or pasta with a cream sauce . Those all carry the flavor and aroma of truffles very well . Chop some of it very fine and put it in the dish and then slice the rest paper thin ( with a mandoline if possible ) over the finished food right before serving .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
end question
start question
Can I make gyoza with raw meat ?
Of course you can make gyoza with raw meat -- that would be the traditional method . You can find countless recipes , including raw meat ones , simply by googling " <URL> " . While perhaps less common , you can also google " <URL> " to find many options using chicken such as <URL> , although there are some false hits mixed in that are not chicken based . Gyoza ( which are the Japanese version of pot stickers ) are normally not much larger than bite sized . This small size will help ensure that they are cooked through during the hybrid frying/steaming method that gives them their crispy bottoms , which is normally similar to : Fry the dumplings , flat side down , until the bottoms begin to be brown . Add water to the pan , and cover , creating a makeshift steaming environment to cook the dumpling through . Allow the water to evaporate and the bottoms to re-crisp . While it is is fairly difficult to take the internal temperature of a single dumpling ( you probably can if you have a very high quality instant-read thermometer with a short probe distance , like a Thermapen ) , you can still judge their doneness indirectly by squeezing . They will be quite firm . The small size ( even very big Chinese style pot stickers tend not to be more than an inch/couple cm wide , although they may be longer ) helps make sure they can cook through very quickly ; steaming is also a very effective method at transferring heat into the target food . So yes , making gyoza with raw meat , done with some care , is safe .
Per the <URL> , frozen chicken should not be cooked in a slow-cooker or a microwave . It can only safely be cooked in the oven or on the stovetop . A similar warning is given for <URL> as well .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
Based on your edit to your question , and with some additional thought , I 'm going to answer this differently . Soured milk differs from what you called " spoiled " milk in only one way - what wild bacteria reproduced faster : bacteria with tasty waste products or bacteria with disgusting waste products . With that in mind the major potential problems with using this milk to make yogurt are : If the wild bacteria crowd out the yogurt culture If the yogurt culture is not able to work because the milk is too sour . In making homemade yogurt neither of these should be a problem . In making all yogurt - including yogurt made from raw milk in commercial settings - the milk is heated to 190F for some time to denature albumin proteins and to partially sterilize the milk so that the yogurt cultures will have the upper hand . This means that all yogurt has been pasteurized and the fact that the milk was purchased raw is a red herring . This will make problem # 1 above unlikely . Not heating the milk will leave you with @rumtscho 's answer - you can only guess what you might get by incubating it . As for problem # 2 . Milk proteins begin to coagulate at a Ph of about 4.6 . The target Ph for yogurt is usually 4.5 . When making yogurt , Streptococcus thermophilus brings the milk down to about 5.0 and Lactobacillus Acidophilus takes over and brings it down to 4.5 . Lactobacillus Acidophilus is active well below this Ph. Therefore , if your milk is not already thickened then it is , by definition , not too acidic for the yogurt culture to work . Unfortunately , as the commenter from your first link indicated , heat combined with acid will cause the milk to prematurely denature . If you milk is too sour already then heating it to 190F may cause the protein to precipitate out and you would have paneer ( sort of ) . I looked but was unable to find at what Ph milk proteins will denature at 190F . <URL> <URL> If you can strictly verify the handling of your raw milk to have confidence that it has not been contaminated with harmful bacteria , and if the milk has only slightly soured so that it can be heated without breaking , you should be able to successfully make yogurt out of it knowing that the texture might vary from that of your starter .
To start with , the red , or dark , juice from red meat is not , in fact , blood , which is a common misconception . Most blood is drained from red meat when it is butchered . It is , rather , a protein ( <URL> ) and a lot of water . It is an animal 's levels ( or lack of ) myoglobin , that determine whether it is a ' red ' meat or white . As for its safety after being frozen , this is discussed further <URL> . Beef stored in the refrigerator for more than 5 days will start to turn brown due to chemical changes in the myoglobin . This does n't necessarily mean it has gone bad , though with this length of unfrozen storage , it may have . Best to use your nose to tell for sure , not your eyes As your venison was frozen , rather than just refrigerated , as mentioned above , I would say you are more than safe to do a nose test , as recommended above .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
It depends on what you mean by gluten-free flour . If you are buying a gluten-free flour mix that it labeled for all-purpose use then you should be able to substitute that and get a reasonably good result . Substituting straight rice or almond flour in a standard recipe will not work well , because the mixes have a blend of ingredients designed to make it perform similar to flour . It may take some recipe/flour experimentation to get it as close to what you are used to , but will definetly make something edible . There are also various almond-flour based pancake recipes which work well .
The quickest way to get rid of leftover wine is to think of it as flavoured water . In many if not most recipes that call for water - especially stovetop recipes like sauces and stews - you can simply substitute wine for the water or stock that the recipe normally calls for . We actually had a similar question recently : <URL> and I 'd recommend you take a look at that , as many of the points there apply equally well to wine . Probably the best summation was in <URL> : I 'd consider stock to be just another flavorful liquid ( thanks Alton Brown ) , to be usable in exchange for others like wine , etc. . You need to be conscious of the gelatin aspect and mindful that some substitutions will be more successful than others , flavor-wise , but it 's always worth considering if stock might be a good substitute for any other flavorful liquid . Just swap the terms " stock " and " wine " and you 're good to go . Even though wine does n't contain any gelatin , you actually do need to be mindful of the gelatin aspect when substituting wine for stock , because you might have the opposite problem if the liquid is supposed to thicken . Similarly to stock , I also would n't recommend using wine in anything that you plan to refrigerate or freeze for a long period , for a different reason obviously - because it can go sour over time . So try to only use it in recipes that will be consumed in the near future . Other than that , just experiment ; whenever you 're making a savoury recipe that calls for water or stock , try using some wine instead . You 'd be surprised at how much character it can add to otherwise simple dishes . Some examples of places where you can replace some other liquid with wine : Rice or risotto Soups and sauces Deglazing a pan ( for a pan sauce ) Salad dressings ( this is an especially good use for sour/fermented wine ) Marinades Poaching liquids ( for eggs , chicken , etc. ) There really are no rules , and any time you find yourself tossing plain water into a pot or bowl , you should keep in mind that you are potentially missing an opportunity to add flavour ( which a good wine will add plenty of ) .
Very high fat , thoroughly marbled ribeye is a good start , but there 's a fair amount of variation . The extremely thin slices are also not something that every butcher is accustomed to producing , but that should get you to the right beginning .
I seem to recall that in Moroccan cities there are often ' neighbourhood ' ovens where you pay a small amount to have your bread baked , because few people have their own ovens . You cut a distinctive design in the loaf so you can tell which is yours when you go back to collect it ; the whole system is extremely ancient . The ovens are usually wood-fired clay ovens , so you 'll get a nice stone-baked result as well .
Yes.The basic ingredients for both are the same ; the difference lies in how they are cooked .
Yes , as you said , the increased surface area makes it go bad faster . Not only that , but bacteria on top of the meat can now go to the middle with little resistance . Consider the expiration date of ground beef and whole beef slabs . Pork tends to go bad faster than beef , and freshly butchered pig smells of feces ( especially right beneath the skin ) , but they still go bad faster .
Either would be safe . You will get better quality by freezing them uncooked . They should not get soggy due to the freezing , as neither the meat filling , nor the wrappers , are particularly subject to ice crystal damage . Gyoza are very small , so you should not need to thaw them : just begin the steaming phase right out of the freezer , and they will thaw while cooking . If you do wish to thaw them , do it in the refrigerator and they will be perfectly safe , despite the raw filling . You are correct that if you freeze them after cooking , you will loose the crispy bottoms -- this would be true if you save them as left overs in the refrigerator as well .
Alcohol does not make the meat tender . It even prevents the outside surface of the meat to fully absorb the flavours . Then again , most marinades do n't penetrate into the meat anyway . When it comes to Shashlik , I think what is working for your uncle , is the time the meat spends in the fridge getting aged ( they probably marinate for a day or more ) and the enzymes break down the meat . It is a myth that Alcohol or Acid make the meat tender . In fact , they have the opposite effect . Per food author <URL> : Alcohol does denature and dehydrate meat and fish tissue , and the stronger the alcohol , the stronger this effect . What you should do instead , is to cook off the alcohol from your marinade first . The ingredient that keeps the meat juicy is salt which most marinades have . The less acidic marinade ( beer versus wine ) the more tender the meat . However , some not so acidic wines end up flavouring the surface of the meat enough to provide a pleasant byte .
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
In the interests of science I gave this a try . Used a can of carbonated water , boiled in my kettle . There was no boiling water explosion , although I more than half expected one . It seemed to maybe boil a little faster , but that 's more likely due to the fact that it 's less liquid than I usually heat . Being a tea fanatic I have a lot of flavored teas but I opted for PG Tips , figuring I would taste any difference a little more easily . I caught very little flavor difference from usual , maybe a little stronger but that could be chalked up to any number of things besides using carbonated water . So yeah , I think carbonated water would probably work in a pinch . Probably do n't put too much of it in the kettle , though . ( A small part of me still suspects that had it been full it would have shot boiling water everywhere ) .
<URL> The point of leaving the cookies to sit on the pan is to dry out the skin so it 'll solidify better . I 'd suggest resting longer ( up to 50 minutes ) or using a hotter oven .
Most reliable sources will warn you strongly against reusing marinades because they can continue to harbor bacteria . Even though the second batch of meat will be cooked , there 'll be lots of time for the bacteria to multiply in the meantime . ( And given the symptoms caused by foodborne illnesses caused by bacteria like salmonella , the risk is n't worth the few cents you 'll save on marinade . )
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
Also , I would add that I tend to cook in batches , rather than overfilling the pan . So using a large deep skillet put enough in to cover about 2/3 of the base , and cook on high heat til browned etc. . Then I put it into a warmed bowl as I cook the next batch , until I have a full bowl of cooked mince , which I can then put back into the pan to simmer and turn into whatever the end dish is .
end question
start question
Are there any recipe ingredients that scale in a non-uniform manner ?
Things applied in a non-linear manner do not scale linearly , i.e. when the ' Surface to volume ratio ' matters , the recipe will not scale linearly . See <URL> for a discussion mostly on how the timings are affected . One example is breading : You will not need to double the breading linearly on a single 200g piece of beef/chicken compared to a single 400g piece , since the surface area will not change with the same factor as the weight , i.e. the surface area will not double when the weight doubles . On the other hand , if you use twice as many pieces of chicken , you will need twice as much breading .
You could try Peychaud 's Bitters ( difficult to find ) , Fernet-Branca , orange bitters or other types of bitters . Worcestershire sauce may also be used as a substitute but works well in savory dishes . I would n't recommend it for a Manhattan . Or , if you 're very ambitious you can try to make your own bitters , although the ingredient list is somewhat intimidating ! Good luck ! <URL>
Most of the recipes I 've made for Sri Lankan curries typically have pandan , dry curry leaves , fennel , green cardamom , mustard seeds , cloves , cumin , coriander &amp; black peppercorns .
Let a hot pepper ( jalapeño or habañero , perhaps ) soak in your liquid for however long it takes to achieve the desired hotness .
Sure , just roast them in a pan with oil for few seconds , not long enough to darken , and remove the nuts . As soon as you remove the cashews from oil they are sticky , then you need to sprinkle salt on it . Do n't add much -- add slightly , checking the taste , and then mix according to the taste you require .
<URL> I found some baking times for specific sized cakes . For me , I just use the toothpick method . If it 's a spongecake , you can check by pressing down on it and if it " bounces " back it 's done .
Crepes were made long before teflon was invented . I use a quality steel pan and non stick spray . I reapply the spray every 3rd or 4th crepe to avoid sticking . Everything else is temperature control . If your temps are too high then the crepes will toast and burn before they set on top . If the temp is too low then they are more prone to sticking . It takes some trial and error and the first few are usually wrong - I eat those . The temperature is always very low though - between low and medium-low on my stove .
The meaty taste is Umami . It is the flavour of monosodium glutamate , in the same way that salty is the flavour of salt . Both mushrooms and tomatoes of the right variety are quite rich in it , as is yeast extract . You can also just buy the stuff commercially . Do n't worry about the stigma attached to it , it 's not actually toxic or anything .
I do n't think there is any " standard " type of vinegar worlwide . In recipes for French dishes , an unspecified vinegar can be assumed to be a red wine vinegar . Mien seems to have a different opinion , so I 'd say it 's pretty much a cultural issue .
When you cut any food you expose the cut surface to oxygen , which causes chemical changes due to oxidation . You also expose the cut surface to microbes and organisms which break down food . Both of these will impact the quality of cut meat or fish , so yes a filet cut from a whole fish just before cooking would be fresher and better quality than one cut some time before . The effect is not great , however . If you had a whole fish and cut one filet from it the day before , then cut the other filet just before cooking both identically I doubt you would be able to tell any difference between the two . To me the reasons for buying a whole fish as opposed to filets is cost and choice . A whole fish is easier to judge for quality than a filet , you can see whether the eyes are cloudy or clear , for instance . Buying a whole fish is cheaper than buying the filets off of it because it 's much less work for the seller , so you can save some cash doing it yourself . However , fileting a fish is not that easy . It 's perfectly do-able at home and there 's loads of how-to videos but it 's still pretty involved and hard to do that well without lots of practice . It 's also messy time consuming , so when you buy filets it 's for the convenience of not having to do it yourself . The important thing is to make sure it 's fresh whether it 's whole or already prepped .
How archaic and fun ! I whipped out some Google-fu and found the following for you : Tincture of Capsicum You can actually buy this on Amazon : <URL> . It 's available other places , but I saw prices as high as 2x this . ( 9 ml ~ 0.3 oz ) Essence of Ginger This is from a late 19th century Jamaican cookbook ( <URL> ) . Three ounces of freshly grated ginger Two ounces of thinly cut lemon-peel Two pints of brandy or proof spirit ( white rum ) Just combine and let sit for 10 days , shaking well . Essence of Lemon This can also be purchased . You can likely find some lemon extract in your grocery store , if not here is some on Amazon : <URL> - note that it 's 3 bottles . Solution of Burnt Sugar This is n't just typical caramelized sugar , it 's burnt sugar . Sugar that has been heated to the dark caramel stage of 370 F to 400 F ( 188 C to 204 C ) . The sugar at this point has lost most of it 's sweetness , smells burnt , and tastes kind of bitter . It 's commonly called <URL> these days . This is what is gives Cola 's their dark color . In the small amount of 25ml and in the presence of 2.5 lbs of sugar ( wow ! ) you wo n't taste it . My amazon-fu fails here , but have found it available on this site : <URL> It might be simpler to buy this than attempt making your own . Caramel coloring can be a little hazardous to make , it 's easy to go too far and burn your sugar , and dumping any quantity of water into 400 F sugar is a sketchy experience . Here is a how-to if you desire though : <URL> Tartaric Acid This too can be purchased - <URL> Please note that tartaric acid is not the same as cream of tartar . Cream of tartar is an acid-salt in which the tartaric acid is partially neutralized . This site <URL> . I 'm not sure if this will make a difference in your drink because I 've never used cream of tartar in such a way or quantity before . There is also the possibility that a recipe of this age simply used the term tartaric acid to refer to cream of tartar . Who knows ?
Tempering is a process used to give solid chocolate a uniform appearance and texture , as well as to insure that those qualities are shelf-stable . Most commercially available chocolate is already tempered to some degree so that it has a pleasing appearance and texture for customers to enjoy right out of the box/bag . Tempering is required when the final product will be made of solid chocolate or the chocolate is a component in an unadulterated state , especially in candies that will sit at room temperature . These would include molded and enrobed chocolates such as chocolate bars , bonbons , leafs , and nests . Recipes that add chocolate to other ingredients such as dairy , flour , and sugar can be made with either tempered or untempered chocolate because the structure of the chocolate fat crystals is no longer the dominant source of structure and texture . Examples of this include cookies , brownies , ganache , ice cream , and cakes . There is no normal application where untempered chocolate is required and tempered chocolate could not be used . The only application I have been able to think of where untempered chocolate would be desired/required is something made for the express purpose of training and/or testing chocolatiers or chocolate tasting professionals .
Yes , they are most likely to be denatured protein . It is feasible that they also contain some other matter like stray pieces of vegetable , but the bulk should be the protein . When the particles are small enough , they are agitated in the boiling water and become a suspension . When you let them rest , they slowly find their way to the bottom , due to gravity . So , the answer to your other questions is yes and yes . Are you approaching consomme when you filter them out ? Yes , you do . Are you removing flavor ? Also yes . After all , it 's not the water that flavors the stock , it 's what remains in it from the veal . While the pure protein does n't have much flavor by itself , enough stuff tends to stick to it to make it flavorful . Consomme is made clear for presentation purposes and for texture , not for flavor . The loss is slight , but it is a loss , not a gain . It is up to you to decide which stock you prefer , the filtered or unfiltered version , there is no single " best " answer .
There is n't a way to predict this . Non stick pans are produced in different quality and can be anywhere from " water pearls off the surface " to " as bad as enamel " . And all of them lose their non stick properties over time , at wildly different rates depending on quality and usage patterns . If you want to know it for your case , you 'll have to try it . Worst case , you 'll have to thoroughly clean a pan from clingy residue . If it burns onto a white ceramic coating , it can also leave a permanent discoloration , but this is a purely cosmetic problem . Update : You can certainly save your meat even if it starts to stick . Use Joe 's method from his comment , or simply stir it constantly with a flat edged spatula ( I do n't know which method is better ) . If it is patties , loosen them again and again using a spatula , maybe turning them often .
You should only start using one if you have a pressing need . That is tongue-in-cheek , but unless your have a need , there is no ' should use ' . One such need may be hygiene ( or saving effort , or lack of strength in the hands ) , but only you can determine whether that 's true . UPDATE : original post was modified ( and better for it ) As in the earlier answer , benefits may be : Hygiene Economics ( more juice from your lemon , if normal squeezing is n't enough for you ) Speed / efficiency Catches the seeds for you A possibly disadvantage may be that it mangles your lemon skin ( depending on type ) , which you might still want to use . On the other hand , models may also exist that allow you to squeeze efficiently after you 've scraped some of the skin ( if you needed to ) , which can be a hassle if done by hand . As to specific models : I do n't use any . ( probably just use the orange juicer if I had a bunch . Like hobodave - do n't need another singletask device that sees uncommon use ) .
There is certainly a difference between different yeasts . Different kinds of yeast react differently , are happy at different temperature ranges , produce different amounts of gas , live for different amounts of time . In my little world , however , it 's better to use a yeast that you use commonly and understand than it is to experiment with a different yeast that may not behave the way you expect . The thing is , " bakers yeast " is a generic term . If it called for rapid rise yeast , and all you had was active dry yeast , I 'd say to go out and buy some , or your bread would end up flat . Chances are you have one of those two kinds . They 'd both work in most recipes , but each have their peculiarities , and you 'd need to adjust . I 'd give it a shot , and see how it comes out . If your bread ends up whacky , then try something else .
Things applied in a non-linear manner do not scale linearly , i.e. when the ' Surface to volume ratio ' matters , the recipe will not scale linearly . See <URL> for a discussion mostly on how the timings are affected . One example is breading : You will not need to double the breading linearly on a single 200g piece of beef/chicken compared to a single 400g piece , since the surface area will not change with the same factor as the weight , i.e. the surface area will not double when the weight doubles . On the other hand , if you use twice as many pieces of chicken , you will need twice as much breading .
I guess it depends upon the definition of " crushed " If by crushed , you mean using a garlic press , then there is quite a difference between chopped and crushed garlic . When you crush garlic , no need for a garlic press , the flat of a knife and a little salt is all that 's needed , you release the essential oils , resulting in a stronger flavour . You can also purée the garlic . It 's also important to consider the type of recipe , in some recipes , such as a pasta sauce , chopped garlic is fine . In Asian cooking , especially Indian cuisine , it 's common practice to use minced or puréed garlic . In roast dishes , using the whole cloves in the roasting tin with the meat , can produce an incredible sauce .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
There is n't anything that is necessarily " bad " or should always be avoided in stock , but some ingredients have qualities you wo n't always want . Dark greens ( spinach , kale , etc ) can make a stock bitter and of course greenish in color . Cabbage also can impart a overwhelming bitterness . Potatoes can cloud a stock from their starchiness , so they are not good when you want clear stock for something like a soup or consomme . Tomatoes may overpower flavors in a light stock , but are a critical component in most dark stocks ( browning tomato paste improves the color ) Onion skins add a deeper flavor , but yellow or red skins can change the color of a light colored stock dramatically . Skin and extra fat from the meat used is sometimes avoided to reduce the amount of skimming required later on ( I personally do n't skim , the extra fat does n't bother me ) The bones of very oily fish ( mackerel , salmon , and trout for example ) are usually avoided because they can make a stock too strong in specific flavors to work in any other dish . Oily fish stocks also tend to have an unpleasant odor .
end question
start question
Why does my ice cream leave a waxy texture on the roof of my mouth ?
Try heating the cream and milk to just below a simmer . Right before adding the milk mixture to the yolks whisk the sugar , vanilla , and eggs together . Pour the hot milk mixture into eggs very slowly . It 's best to strain it through a fine strainer . If you use vanilla bean make sure to add it after straining it . Let cool a little before putting it into the fridge . It should be cold before making the ice cream . It 's not necessary to fully temper ice cream base like crème anglaise .
I 'm not sure what causes the bowing to be more pronounced from one cooking method versus another , but the solution is to put a thumbprint indentation in the middle , creating a slight " donutted " shape . This will help to ensure you get the " patty " shape you want .
Gerbil gave the basic reasons as to why this might be happening , but as for the ' how to recover ' ... you have a few options : Wait for it to finish separating , and take the oil off , then serve without oil . If you still want some fat for mouthfeel , after separating , you can add some butter back into the warm ( but not too hot ) sauce , and stir 'til melted and combined . If going for a more gravy-like consistency , after separating , put the oil back into the pan , make a roux and follow the <URL> , but use the juices in place of the milk . After separating , take some of the non-oil part , add an emulsifier ( eg , mustard ) , then slowly whisk back in some fat , add some of the juices , then slowly add the rest of the fat 'til it 's the consistency you want . Put it into a blender an mix ( although , open the vent hole , then put a towel over the lid , and hold it down with one hand when you turn it on ... blending hot things can be a mess ) or use a stick blender . In the future , I would separate out the juice &amp; fats before reducing . You never know quite how much fat will render out of a piece of meat , and I feel I can reduce the juices faster when there is n't fat in there , but I 've never actually timed it . Or , you can go the roux / gravy route if you 're in a hurry .
@Adam A is close -- it 's not an issue of surface area on potency , it 's an issue of damage to the garlic . The ' strong ' taste of garlic comes from a reaction as chemicals are released so they can mix ( alliin and alliinase ) When you cook the garlic whole ( as you would for roasted garlic ) , you will never get this reaction , as you 'll break down the chemicals . Also , the chemicals break down over long cooking , so even if you add a head of crushed garlic at the beginning of a batch of slow-cooked tomato sauce ( 4 + hrs ) , it 's not going to have as strong a garlic flavor as adding a clove or two at the end . One other way that the garlic prep can affect the taste is when you 're sauteing , stir frying or other cooking over high heat -- larger bits can be cooked longer before they burn ... and burned garlic is bitter , acrid and will ruin any dish . ( if you burn garlic , stop immediately , trash everything , clean the pan , and start again -- there is no way to save it that I know )
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
I do n't think I 've ever even had hot buttered rum , but I can take a stab at some of your questions : 1 part ice cream and 2-3 parts boiling water will still average out pretty hot . If the ice cream is at , say , -20 to -10 C , that 'll get you in the 60-70C range initially , which is I think fairly normal for hot drinks . And of course , if you keep it in the refrigerator instead , your drink will be hotter ! I suspect mixing ice cream with butter will help it all mix together better in the end , by helping disperse the fat . Ground spices are n't going to need a ton of steeping . I imagine the boiling water would be enough , and if not , the pre-cooking could easily compensate . And since some recipes just have nutmeg sprinkled on top , it sounds like steeping is n't necessarily the goal . If you 're really aiming for spiced hot buttered rum , you 'll probably want more spices than those recipes , and perhaps to cook them briefly with the butter . If you intend to freeze the " batter " , including ice cream will help keep it soft enough to scoop/slice . If it were just butter and sugar , it 'd get quite hard in the freezer . Yes , the milk/cream content of the ice cream would make the drink a little creamier - but I do n't know whether hot buttered rum should be a bit creamy . It sounds like it 'd be fine either way - personal preference , perhaps ?
Basic Physics of the System Bread rises ( as you probably know ) due to microorganisms , primarily yeast , converting sugars into CO ₂ + byproducts . The CO ₂ forms bubbles , stretching the gluten in the flour . In order for the bread to rise , the microorganisms must produce CO ₂ faster than it can escape from the dough . Graphed over time , the amount of CO ₂ produced would start at 0 , fairly quickly rise to its maximum ( as the yeast , etc. come back from dormancy ) , then slowly decrease , eventually to 0 ( as they run out of food and/or are overwhelmed by byproducts such as alcohol ) . The amount of gas escaping from the dough also changes over time . It must obviously start at 0 , and probably increases over time ( after all , there is more to escape ) , and eventually of course its all escaped and thus it must be 0 again , but I 'm not sure of its exact shape . So , a diagram : That 's the basic physics of the system . At some point , the bread must fall . ( Well , maybe in a 0-g environment it would shrink instead of fall , but ... ) How the Environment Matters The microorganisms are very sensitive to fairly small changes in their environment . In particular : Temperature . If your kitchen is 70 ° F and the author 's is 80 ° F , it could easily take twice as long . The lower the temperature , the slow the microorganisms go ( up to a point , once it gets too hot , they 're not happy either ) . Hydration . If your bread dough is lower hydration ( drier ) than the author 's , it 'll be slowed down again . The recipe is written in volume measures ( cups ) , as you know flour packs down . That leads to huge variations in how two different people measure it . Make sure to measure it how the author says to ( hopefully it specified somewhere in the book ) . Scoop-and-sweep vs. sift-and-sweep can easily be 25 % different . Preferably , spend $ 25 on a kitchen scale , and do your baking by weight . Salinity . Salt slows down yeast . If you happened to substitute table salt for kosher salt , and still measured out 1 1/2 tablespoons , you 've used more salt than the author wanted . A fair bit more . Age of your yeast . If your yeast is old ( and sometimes the packets in the store have been sitting for ages ) , it may not have the same potency as a fresh packet would . It 'll probably take longer ( but as long as it rises , it 'll likely be fine ) The times in the book could just be nonsense . Authors and editors do sometimes make mistakes . Other times they 're in a rush , and just take a guess . " Yeah , it was about two hours ... " The book could just be wrong . Also , generally speaking , slower leads to better flavor . So its not a bad thing . Summary Give it longer . Provided you 've covered it in plastic ( so it does n't dry out ) , it 'll eventually fall . Keep in mind that " fall " does n't mean it 'll return to its original size , just that it 'll fall back from its maximum size . The " or flattens on top " comment in your book is a pretty accurate description of what it looks like . Normally , while its rising , there is a dome shape on top , with the center as the highest point . When it starts falling , that dome vanishes , and may even invert ( as in , the center will be the lowest point ) . I 've made preferments that take upwards of 20 hours to fall . It will eventually happen . And when it takes forever , it 'll probably taste better .
Ice cream is an emulsion and in it , you have air , fat , and ice . The smaller the ice crystals , the smoother the icecream and better chance of achieving a velvety , creamy , smooth texture . The flavor is also elevated given the smaller crystals . Put it in the freezer , and ice crystals start to grow bigger and you lose the benefits . Also , colder temperature inhibits the taste buds ability to pick up sweetness . At liquid nitro cooled temperatures , you can get an explosion of flavour as the icecream warms up and melts in your mouth and the taste buds start to pick up on sweetness . Finally , aside from a show , it 's much much faster to make icecream with LN2 than in a regular machine . Seconds versus 30-45minutes . There are hazardous issues with liquid nitrogen and handling . As a starting point , look into <URL> .
The softness of ice cream is going to depend on a variety of factors : Use of gums and other binding agents , amount of sugar , the amount of fat , and especially the amount of " overrun " ( air ) that is churned into it during the freezing process . Less expensive ice creams will usually have a softer " chewier " texture than premium ice creams due to more gums and a great amount of air being churned into it to increase volume . More air = more volume = more yield for the same amount of ingredients used .
Main reason that comes to mind is , for the same reason compound butter 's flavour improves over a couple of days : infusion . Fat can be infused with flavour , and holds flavour incredibly well , but it needs a little time ( viscosity of fat vs water ) . Otherwise the fat in Serrano Ham would taste just like it would on day one . By holding your mix/custard overnight you are allowing the coffee or vanilla flavours get infused into the mix . You can somewhat accelerate this by letting the vanilla sit in hot ice-cream mix for 1hr as suggested by many pastry chefs ( e.g. Simple French Desserts , Jill O'Conner ) . I suspect the acceleration is due to the lower viscosity of fat at higher temperatures . The taste does follow the physics here were the higher the viscosity the longer infusion ( read equilibrium ) takes . Serrano ham : two years . Hot deep fryer oil : seconds . By the way , when it comes to ice-cream , they also recommend aging your mix/custard for up to 48 hours . It may be worth the experiment to sous-vide your ice-cream batter/mix at say 55C for a couple of hours and compare taste with the over-night version . Although mouthfeel may play a role in this case , the ' flavour improves over time ' effect is present even when crystallization is not happening .
It sounds like you may be having temperature control issues . If it 's not dark enough , keep it over low heat for a bit longer . If it 's hardening/burning , it 's probably caused by one of the following : 1 ) your stovetop ( if burner is n't turned low enough or burner is too large and overheats sides of pan ) 2 ) your pan ( easy to burn things if your pan is n't sufficiently thick-bottomed ) 3 ) lack of attention during the carmelization process ( you need to move the sugar towards the center once carmelization begins to prevent burning at the edges , but not stir it too much ) . You might find these <URL> helpful for troubleshooting .
It 's caused by the high amount of potassium in the banana . Microwaves react with metals , bouncing off and cause arcing . You can even create a cool light show by putting a raw peeled banana in the microwave . Do n't worry , it wo n't explode , but it will make a mess , it 's also harmless . This can also happen in some <URL> depending on the soil conditions they grew in . As noted in the linked article , other high concentrations of metals such as magnesium , iron , and zinc can be the responsible mineral . Momentary brief sparking is harmless and wo n't harm your microwave , but the USDA recommends turning off your microwave if you see sparks nonetheless . If it does start a fire , unless it 's a very small fire , do not open your microwave door . The safest thing is to turn off the microwave and let the fire burn itself out by consuming all the oxygen . Opening the door could create a dangerous backdraft induced fireball . Edit : Found a <URL> . See Also : <URL> <URL>
Almost all fermented dairy products curdle under heat . When this happens , the milk proteins bind to each other into a rubbery mesh , which ca n't contain all the moisture from the original product , and it is squeezed out . Creme fraîche tends to be an exception . It contains a high amount of fat . This fat lubricates the proteins and gets in the way , so they ca n't bind to each other and form the mesh . However , the fat content of creme fraîche is n't all that high ( just enough to allow for the effect I described ) , so it is finicky when heated . As you do n't seem to have acid in the recipe , the trouble probably comes from water . It dilutes the creme fraîche , making it more probable that proteins will meet and bind without a fat droplet coming in the way . So , if you want to keep the recipe as authentic as possible , try to reduce the amount of water exuded by the other ingredients . The first thing to check is whether you are actually using creme fraîche . Sometimes people make a substitution with a similar product , but continue calling it the name of the original product . Sour cream , smetana , creme legere , plant substitutes , etc. wo n't work in your case - 30 % fat is the minimum for baking , the higher the fat content , the better is it suited . For the rest of the answer , I am assuming that you are using the creme fraîche . My suggestion would be to drain the broccoly very well ( I assume you mean blanched or nuked broccoli , baking them in the oven would be strange ) , maybe even try to use a salad dryer . If the salmon comes from a vacuum package , drain it well too , and pat it dry with a paper towel . Take the potatoes out of the boiling pot and leave them alone for a while , the cooling startch will absorb some moisture . Also , use a mealy type of potatoes , the starch in these could absorb some liquid from the other ingredients . Another thing which should help in any case is to reduce the oven temperature , as the gentler heat will affect the creme fraîche less . If this fails , you should consider adding other ingredients to stabilize the creme fraîche . It will change the taste , but not necessarily for the worse . A stabilizer should help . For dairy , carrageenan is very effective and its taste is not noticeable , but most people do n't have it in the kitchen . Starch will also act as stabilizer , take just a small portion , maybe a teaspoonful per 200 g creme fraîche . Dissolve it in a teaspoonful of cold water before adding it . You could also use flour . Both will affect the taste somewhat , the flour will be more pronounced . The second solution would be to raise the fat content . Adding pure fat is counterproductive , as the fat droplets in dairy products are much smaller than what your blender would achieve . But you could mix or substitute the creme fraîche using a dairy product with a higher fat content . Mascarpone , kaymak , katuk , clotted cream , or creme double should work . Or maybe cream cheese , even if it does n't have a higher fat content , because it contains stabilizers . A full substitution will alter the taste substantially , but a partial one will probably be OK . If all else fails , you could try if you ca n't change the recipe to accommodate a more traditional gratin liquid ( how is the stuff called in English ? ) . While I agree that pure creme fraîche will work best with what you listed , a mixture of eggs ( or just yolks to keep it more liquid ) , milk , the creme fraîche , and a tiny bit of flour would also provide a moist binding . Use less eggs/yolks than in a normal gratin to keep it from setting too much . It will be a big change , but if nothing else works , it will still taste much better than curdled creme fraîche . Or if you are a risk-embracing nature , you can continue using pure creme fraîche , just with the moisture reducing techniques , hoping that this will be enough . Each time it separates , you should drain the whole dish , catching the liquid . Scum off the curds , or strain them . The whey will have a nice taste , similar to a stock . Take out some new creme fraîche ( not heated ) , and mix it with the liquid . ( Reduce it first to avoid making it too liquid ) . Add it back to the remaining ingredients . This will keep the taste even if the curdling occurs , but will require lots of work .
In Scotland we make a kind of fudge that is deliberatly hard and crystallised known as <URL> . This was a popular treat when I was growing up . Essencially the recipe for tablet , soft fudge , toffee and caramel are quite similar . The difference is made by how you cook and treat the mix as it cools . Essentially you need to know about <URL> . There are two important levels used : soft boil , and hard boil . My cook books suggest using a sugar thermometer to get the perfect boil but I 've never found a sugar thermometer in the shops . Instead I rely on a great deal of practice , the colour , the texture and the drip of the mix to gage how hot the sugar is . In a soft boil ( 234 -- 240 ° F or 112 -- 115 ° C ) , if you drip the mix onto a very cold surface or into cold water , then touch the drip with your finger , it will be soft like caramel . Additionally the colour will change from cream to yellow/tan . In a hard boil ( 250 -- 266 ° F or 121 -- 130 ° C ) , dripping again onto a cold surface or into cold water , then touching the drip with your finger , it will be firmer or even hard . The colour will darken slightly to a dark yellow or light brown . For caramel and fudge you go to a soft boil then cool . For tablet and toffee you go to a hard boil . The next part is the cooling . This is equally important as the boiling . The faster you cool the mix the smaller the crystals become . The slower , the larger . If you want a caramel or a toffee , you must avoid agitating the mix as it cools . For fudge you should stir the gently as it cools slightly before pouring onto the try . For tablet , the mix should be vigorously stirred until stiff then poured onto a try .
It 's reminding you that flipping meat halfway through the defrost cycle will help prevent the bottom half cooking , while the top remains frozen solid .
After a few experiments , I found the lessening the concentration of the cure left the meat undercured and still salty , whereas a soak eased out the excess salt of the already-cured beef .
I 've accidentally run my scoop , a Zeroll with conductive fluid inside the handle , through the dishwasher . I do n't know this for a fact because I did n't cut mine open to check , but I believe what happened to mine ( and what 's happened to yours ) is that the fluid is meant to work at normal body temperature and when it gets too hot , like in a dishwasher , it solidifies . That 's the clunking sound , the now-solid conductive liquid . So while it still works as a scoop , the conductive fluid is no longer doing its job and scooping will be a little harder . I definitely noticed that after mine went through the dishwasher .
First of all , the names vary a bit from country to country , or the ingredients do . I 'll explain the most common names/ingredients . The main difference is in the ingredients used . Sorbet is basically water + sugar + fruit , while ice cream and gelato is milk/cream + sugar + fruit . So the last two are more ' creamy ' , while sorbet is more ' icy ' . You can say that ice cream is a type of gelato , but there still is a difference . More sugar in gelato , more butterfat ( the percentage of fat in the milk/cream ) in ice cream . You can read quite a lot about ice cream on <URL> .
I have that problem when I am impatient and do n't let the pasta dry out long enough before putting it on to boil . It is important to let the pasta dry even just in loose little heaps once sliced into noodles . It does n't have to get totally dry just dry enough that you ca n't squish the noodles back together into dough . Also you need to cook fresh pasta for a very short amount of time in a LOT of water , about 1.5 x as much water as you would use for dry , so that the noodles have less chance to run into each other . In fact I frequently do n't boil them at all separately but just toss them in the soup I am serving them with for for a two to three minutes before serving .
You need to make sure you use the right measurements when translating recipes from the US to the UK as the UK uses imperial measurements which are different from US measurements . There are also differences in cream fat content and egg sizes . Teaspoons and tablespoons are the same , so do n't worry about them . First , pint measurements , as the UK does n't use cup measurements . The UK pint is 20 % bigger than the US pint , so if you are using UK pints to measure you may be getting ratios wrong . Use Milliliters instead when translating . 1 US Cup is 237ml ( I round up to 240 ) . If you use UK pints as a measure instead of US you wo n't have enough baking powder in the ratio . In fact , I find UK baking powder and bicarb a bit weaker than US powders , so I increase those measurements a bit anyway . What works for me is the first time I make a US recipe in the UK I weigh the dry ingredients and use weights every time I make the recipe after that , I can fine-tune it that way . US light cream is between 10-30 % butter fat , and heavy cream is about 36-40 % . UK single cream is between 10-30 % fat , whipping cream is about 36 % , and double cream is 50 % fat . So if you are right that US heavy cream is UK whipping cream , but mixing 2 parts UK double and 1 part single works just as well as many places do n't stock whipping cream . I doubt that your results come from the cream you are using though , the fat contents are n't that different . One thing that could be different is the flour you use . US and UK flours are n't completely the same . For my biscuits in the UK I buy 00 or purpose milled pastry flour , which is finer and better for pastry than the bog standard stuff . If you ca n't find it pick the flour with the lowest protein content you can find . Hope this helps , let the forum know your results if you can .
end question
start question
Carrot soup and avoiding the use of a blender ?
One way to modify the recipes ( but you wo n't get the smooth texture of the original recipes ) is to cut the onion and carrot a lot smaller than the original recipe ask for . You want to almost dice it . When you are frying the onion and carrot in the pan , do it for like 1-2 min rather than the whole 5 minutes . And finally you will need to cook it in the stock for much longer than the recipe asks . You want to bring the stock to a boil then let it simmer covered to allow the carrot to become really soft . Then use something with a big flat surface ( a large wooden spoon or something similar ) to help you mash the rest against the side of the stock pot . The results will come out a lot lumpier than the orginal recipes but some texture and " unblended " bits of carrot is actually pretty good in carrot soup .
The varieties of the 2 eggplants shown in the pictures are not actually given , but to me the long variety looks like the Japanese/Chinese eggplant and the round variety looks like The Indian eggplant . By the way , there are many different eggplants out there . If you want to have a look , check out this : <URL> . The Chinese eggplant has a thinner skin , more delicate flavour ( I think sweeter ) and less bitter seeds , although most modern varieties have bred these out anyway . The Japanese eggplant is very similar and again has a thin delicate skin and sweet flavour . The Indian eggplant is similar to the American eggplant with a thicker skin , more seeds and a stronger flavour .
Yes , you do n't have the edge of a pan in the way when going to flip things , but it also means that you do n't have a mass of metal there to add as a heat sink , which can help dramatically when pre-heating your pans , as they 'll be evenly heated across their bottom more quickly ( at least , compared to something of the same material , such as a cast iron skillet ) More importantly , in my opinion , is that without the sides , you do n't hold in moist air , so when cooking things like hash browns , you can get a better crust on 'em without steaming them .
All the blender does is emulsify the mixture -- it has no effect on how long it will keep before the dressing begins to spoil or go off . Normally , oil and water do not like to mix . The oil will coalesce into droplets , then rise to the top due to buoyancy , so that you will have a layer of oil above the water-based liquids . Blending the mixture will break up the oil droplets into very small droplets . These take much longer to coalesce together , so you have a creamy dressing for a time . Over time , the oil can coalesce and separate back out . If this happens , assuming the ingredients have not spoiled , you can always remix or re-blend the mixture -- it s not a safety issue . I suggest storing your dressing in the refrigerator , where it will be good for several days , probably up to a week , although the oil may separate out . You can freeze it , but this is likely to encourage the emulsion to break . Note : I have not discussed emulsifiers like lecithin from egg yolks or mustard which help keep oil-water emulsions stable , because I do n't see any in this recipe .
Sounds like the technique for <URL> , from <URL> , only with hot sauce added . I do n't think it has a name other than " pan fry/sear in caramelized sugar "
I 'm not exactly sure why you 're trying to brine then boil ; you should be able to simply boil your chicken in salty stock and get plenty of salt into it . It wo n't take nearly as long as brining , because things happen faster in boiling water . Assuming you boil for any significant length of time , much of the salt will indeed come out into the cooking liquid , and you 'll end up with your soup approximately as salty as the chicken . ( If the chicken is in large pieces , this of course only applies to the part the brining and cooking liquids can actually reach . )
Kosher salt is the same thing ( though I 'm pretty sure it 's not iodized ) , but the crystals are less dense and larger . There 's more air in each piece , and they do n't pack together as tightly . That means you have to put a larger volume of kosher to get the same amount of actual sodium chloride ( salt ) . Think of it as the difference between ice cubes ( regular salt ) and snow ( kosher ) . Both are water , but ice cubes are way denser than a scoop of snow . When melting it , you 'll need more volume of snow to come out to the same amount of water as you 'd get from a few ice cubes . So no , it 's not worse for you .
Depending on where you are , the word <URL> can mean a few different things . In Mexico it refers to a flatbread made of either wheat or corn and a few other ingredients . These flatbreads tend to come in standard sizes in the United States at least , one of which might be labeled the " burrito " size . A <URL> is one use for a tortilla . A burrito consists of a wheat flour tortilla wrapped around a filling . Often the filling might include beans , cooked meat , rice , and perhaps vegetables .
I would say , find a recipe where you cook the fish whole ( after cleaning it , of course - i.e. removing innards , fins , head , etc. ) and then split it open . You should practically be able to lift the bones out when you open the fish up , if my memory serves me right . I used to go trout fishing in Maine a lot , but it 's been a while .
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
Soup freezes great in my experience . To freeze it for long term storage , you 'll probably want it to be vacuum sealed . In order to do this I freeze individual sized portions in Tupperware-style containers ( make sure to leave enough room for expansion ) , and as soon as they 're solid , vacuum seal those large " cubes " . They generally stack pretty nicely in our garage freezer . In general soups should thaw and taste very good , some flavors even seem become stronger or seem to enhance and meld better with the freezing . If you vacuum seal them as above you can throw them ( still sealed ) into a pot of boiling water for hot soup relatively fast ! As an aside , another great option with a leftover turkey frame would be to save it with previous odds and ends ( carrot/celery ends , onion pieces , etc ) in the freezer , and when you have enough make a simple stock . You can then freeze the stock into cubes ( in ice cube trays ) for soup-making later , sauteeing veggies , in place of water for more flavorful rice , and a ton of other things .
If I remember correctly , flautas are made with a softer flour tortilla while taquitos are made with a harder corn tortilla . Both are filled with similar fillings and then wrapped and deep fried . However , you can oftentimes find taquitos made from flour tortillas and flautas made from corn tortillas ... so what 's the deal ? There is another differentiation : size . Flautas are often longer than taquitos , as taquitos are made from taco sized tortillas , while flautas are made from burrito sized tortillas . Another little tidbit if you go to a fancier Mexican place : flautas are often narrower on one side to create a funnel shape . But this is not common in your standard places . TL ; DR ; They 're oftentimes the same thing
It is a combination of a regular convection oven with a microwave , so you have both hot air and microwaves cooking your food . So the advantage is you get the quick interior heating of the microwaves combined with the surface browning from the hot air ; convection just makes that hot air cooking faster and more even .
Yes , cream soups are typically roux-based . If you add some flour ( roughly an equal amount to the butter ) to the fats , whisk and cook the flour for a couple minutes and then slowly whisk in the milk , it will be much less likely to separate . The soup will also be thicker , which I would imagine is a good thing .
One way to modify the recipes ( but you wo n't get the smooth texture of the original recipes ) is to cut the onion and carrot a lot smaller than the original recipe ask for . You want to almost dice it . When you are frying the onion and carrot in the pan , do it for like 1-2 min rather than the whole 5 minutes . And finally you will need to cook it in the stock for much longer than the recipe asks . You want to bring the stock to a boil then let it simmer covered to allow the carrot to become really soft . Then use something with a big flat surface ( a large wooden spoon or something similar ) to help you mash the rest against the side of the stock pot . The results will come out a lot lumpier than the orginal recipes but some texture and " unblended " bits of carrot is actually pretty good in carrot soup .
I would do it the other way round , I 'd fry the sausages first , then add the veg . This has a few benefits as I see it : - The sausages will brown more evenly , purely aesthetic but some people will think they are not cooked if they are not brown . You 'll get the oil out of the sausages so you 'll have a better idea of how much oil to add when you add the veg , if any . The veg will sweat down in the sausage oil which is likely to be much nicer than the other oil You can cook the sausages on a really low heat to start with so that they really get sticky and caramelised , then when you add the veg back in you can add a spoon of water/vinegar/stock to deglaze the pan an get that lovely sticky sausage goodness all over your veggies , which will be delicious . You could optionally take the cooked sausages out of the pan and do the veg separately , or keep 'em in there , I 'd probably take them out so I could turn the heat up a bit without having to worry about the sausages . I 'd say that when you do add the veg you want a thin ( 1mm ish ) layer of oil in the pan . Depending on the pan this is probably a tables spoon or 2 . You probably do n't need to scale up as if you are cooking a bigger batch you will probably use a bigger pan , and so a similar depth of oil should suffice . If you are using the same pan , but with a deeper amount of veg , then I would add a little more , but I would make the depth of oil in the pan proportional to the depth of veggies . Remember the golden rule . You can always add , you can never take away . And once the veg start to cook down and the volume decreases then the oil ratio will be higher , so start out with a little less than you think , just enough to coat the veg when tossed in it .
Essentially , it 's like a giant chicken with a " deeper " and more distinctive flavor . The main reason I like them ( other than the flavor ) is the sheer quantity of meat you can get from one roasting session . One could roast multiple chickens for a similar effect , but with a turkey you only have one skeleton to pick meat off of , so it goes faster . Leftovers can be frozen and/or reused in all sorts of ways ( sandwiches , soups , casseroles , etc. ) . taste The breast meat of turkey is a little different from chicken , but they have a similar texture and both tend to be rather mild in flavor compared to game birds . If you had access to a wild turkey , the meat will be gamier . The dark meat of the turkey ( particularly legs and wings ) is generally much more flavorful than chicken , with a " deeper " flavor that some people love and others dislike . ( This may be the reason for the increasing popularity of whole turkey breasts sold by themselves in the U.S. , which can be roasted like a whole bird , but do n't have the " other parts " that are seen as less desirable by many . The vast majority of people I know tend mostly to eat turkey breast meat , usually served with gravy and stuffing . ) I 've seen turkey wings and legs sometimes offered at Southern U.S. BBQ joints ; when slow-cooked , they are a bit of a " Southern delicacy . " On most farm-raised turkeys I 've had recently , the thigh meat does n't have as much of that " rich turkey " flavor that I seem to recall in the past , but it has a more distinctive flavor than the breast meat . Internal organs ( " giblets " ) also tend to have a stronger flavor than chickens , if you 're into eating livers , gizzards , hearts , etc. . There 's often more fat in various parts of the bird than in typical U.S. chickens , which adds to a richer flavor . However , there 's usually not as much fat as found in other common U.S. poultry ( particularly duck and goose ) . appearance When prepared and ready to buy at a butcher , turkeys essentially look the same as any large poultry . They are often much larger than chickens , easily going to 20 lbs . ( 10 kg ) and more . There are some differences in proportions and details that you 'll see when cutting up or eating . In particular , the legs and wings have a bit more connective tissue and bony/cartilage bits than a chicken , since it 's a larger bird and needs more support . This also tends to make the leg and wing meat a bit " stringy , " which may be the reason for the slow-cooked versions I mentioned above , allowing time for the meat to break down more than when just roasting the whole bird . The meat is also a bit darker in color than chickens , particularly noticeable in the " dark meat " sections . cooking If buying a whole bird , most people in the U.S. essentially prepare it as they would make a large chicken , which usually means roasting in the oven . They are usually cooked at somewhat lower temperatures than chicken , to give time for the whole turkey to cook without drying out the exterior . Given the long roasting time for such a large bird , there 's been a bit of a trend recently to cut up the turkey so it lies flat ( " butterfly " or " spatchcock " ) , which allows it to cook faster and potentially more evenly . Other than that , one can often buy individual turkey parts and use them in similar ways to chicken parts , keeping in mind the longer cooking time required . They can also be used ( as with other poultry ) for soup meat , etc. .
rfusca already gave very good suggestions for the literal question from the title . However , you can also address your problem the other way round . First , cook the soup until your noodles are al dente ( but will become just right while cooling at a normal speed ) . Take the big pot of soup off the heat . Second , take a small pot , and fill it with just one portion of soup per eater . Put it on the heat , and cook until the noodles are done . ( Alternatively , put the single portions into porcelain bowls and microwave until the noodles are ready - it spares you washing an additional pot , but I would n't nuke a good soup for no reason ) . Third , eat your cooked soup portions and let the big pot of soup slowly cool on its own . Fourth , freeze the soup from the big pot . Finis . Note that from a food safety point of view , you are better off with flash cooling the soup . But what I outlined here is probably much simple and hassle-free . Plus , 2-3 liters of soup minus a portion or two should spend less than the magical 4 hours in the danger zone while cooling . If you are doing this with a very big pot of soup and feeding lots of people , you should probably prefer a rapid cooling .
The skin is the outer thick orange-coloured cover ; obviously as you 're not told to remove it this would include the pith ( the white fibrous material ) as well . The pips are the seeds inside the fruit : pip noun plural noun : pips 1 . a small hard seed in a fruit . synonyms : seed , stone , pit
Biologically speaking , they are actually different species , but the names are so commonly used interchangeably as to completely muddle the distinctions . For example , spot prawns are actually shrimp while ridgeback shrimp are actually prawns . Prawns have claws on three of their five pairs of legs , shrimp have claws on two of their five pairs of legs . Their gills and body shape are different too . As far as cooking them goes , they are virtually identical and interchangeable . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How should I store raw steaks in the freezer ?
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
Apples are best stored at 0 ° C ( 32 ° F ) at 90 % humidity . If you do n't have a cellar , you 'll have to try to recreate that environment as best you can . The closest you can come in most small apartments is actually a plastic bag with some holes poked in for ventilation ( to prevent excess moisture from building up ) . Then put that in the refrigerator to get close to the correct temperature ; the best location is the vegetable crisper where you have control over the humidity . Do n't overpack them , though - about 80-90 % full is the densest you should go . Also be sure to pick only the best apples you can find if you plan to store them long-term . Over-ripe apples will obviously not last as long , and any bruising or piercing will speed up the decay significantly . Edit : If it 's a large number of apples then you can store them in a crate , which provides adequate ventilation , but good luck getting that into the refrigerator . I would still separate them into plastic bags , put whatever I could in the crisper , the rest in the fridge " proper " , and put out any that I intend to consume within a week or two in a regular fruit bowl out in the open . If that 's still not enough , then you probably need to accept that small apartments are n't very well-suited to storing very large amounts of fresh food ; just because they 're easy to get , does n't mean it makes economic sense .
Tomatoes will last longer if kept in the fridge , but I actually recommend against keeping them there . Tomatoes lose much of their flavor when their temperature is brought below 50 degrees F. Keep them in the pantry . They will still last a few days at least , and they 'll taste a lot better .
The only best option is complete thaw to get them in good shape and in one piece , but that is not an option for you . Next one up is the quick and sloppy method . But it will distroy the shape of the fish , hence the name . My tip : Wrap the pieces of fish in a cling film/kitchen foil individually next time before freezing . That will most certainly allow you to take a few pieces out without thawing or using knife/wedge etc. .
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
I fill a tall frying pan ( or pot ) with water . Add some white vinegar . Let it come to a boil Add the eggs . Do n't make it too overcrowded Take it out with a flipper or a spoon with holes when they look done .
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
Given your lack of tools , we 're going to have to get <URL> on this roast . You 'll need some sort of flavorful liquid ( or a combination of them ) . Chicken stock or beef stock would work . I 'd normally also recommend using something acidic like red wine or tomatoes , however , using this method ( which is based on tinfoil ) , acids can react with the aluminum to produce off flavors . If you want to cook with wine or tomatoes , you can transfer the meat to your casserole after you brown it . ( More on this below . ) You 'll also need some type of mild tasting oil . Vegetable , corn , canola/rapeseed , peanut , light olive oil , will all work . Salt . That 's it in terms of software . Hardware : Paper towels . Tinfoil ( preferably the big , wide kind , and heavy duty ) . An oven . That 's it . Algorithm : This is basically the same technique that <URL> proposed , just using different tools . Adjust your oven 's rack to about 6 inches from the broiler . Turn on your oven 's broiler on its highest setting . Lay out two layers of tinfoil on your counter . Make sure the tinfoil is big enough such that if you were to place the roast in the middle of it there would be a border of tinfoil around the roast that is at least as wide as the roast itself . Optional : Put the tinfoil on a large sheetpan or cookie sheet . This will help you in transporting the device to/from the oven , and it will also ensure against spillage in your oven . If you do things right you wo n't have to wash the sheet . Pat the meat as dry as you can get it and put it in the center of the tinfoil . Pour a bit of oil on top of the roast and rub it all over . You only need enough to barely coat the entire roast . Generously salt both sides of the roast . I prefer using kosher salt , because it is less saline by volume , so you can more evenly distribute it without over-salting . You 'll probably use a good tablespoon or so . Put the roast under the broiler . Wait about 5 minutes , but that number is n't exact . Use your eyes . Just wait until it looks good and brown and crusty and delicious . Just do n't blacken the entire thing . When the top side is browned , flip it over to the other side . The best tool for the job here is a pair of tongs , but a fork will do . Brown the second side . Remove the roast ( which is hopefully on top of some type of pan for your convenience ) . Turn off your broiler and reset your oven to 275 degrees F. Fold up the sides of the tinfoil around the roast to make a sort of pan around it . Try to leave as little room around the roast as possible . Alternatively , if you want to use acidic ingredients , you can transfer the roast to the casserole at this point . The reason why you could n't use your casserole from scratch is that it is probably not broiler-safe . Pour in enough of the beef/chicken stock to just barely cover the roast . It should n't require very much liquid . Once the liquid is in , fold the tinfoil on itself to seal the top , such that you end up with a tinfoil package containing the browned meat and the stock . Try and make it airtight . Stick that in the 275 F oven . Just let it sit in there for ~ 3 hours . You do n't need to touch it . After ~ 3 hours , take it out . Hopefully the tinfoil did n't leak . If you did this correctly , all the cleanup you need to do is crumple up the foil and throw it out . You can also experiment with adding other vegetables ( e.g. , thinly sliced onions or whole garlic cloves ) . You can even add them from the very beginning . As I mentioned in a comment on <URL> answer , bottom round roasts have a lot of tough connective tissue which needs to be cooked low and slow ( < 300F ) in the oven in order to become soft and tender . However , if you were to cook the beef the entire way at that temperature the meat would end up being gray and tasteless . The reason is that the <URL> ( which are what turn the meat golden brown and make it taste more meaty and delicious ) do n't really occur below ~ 300F , which is the purpose of the initial sear .
I happen to have watched a TV show the other day about this very problem and they suggested making a big batch of whatever filling or fillings you are thinking of using ( presently or in the future ) and go ahead and make them all up and freeze them ready to cook . They were making several kinds of ravioli that day . They made them all up and placed them on cookie sheets to freeze and then placed them in ZipLock bags and they had a nice supply to pull out of the freezer whenever they were ready to cook them . They did n't have a problem with brittle wontons once they were filled . They used beaten egg to seal the edges so the filling would n't ooze out . You can use this same method for any shape or filling ... does n't have to be ravioli , of course .
If you use your whole beans within a week it 's probably not worth storing it in the refrigerator or freezer . Coffee beans should be stored in a cool , dry place . They can last 1-3 weeks in your pantry . Ideally you should store them in an airtight opaque container . They degrade quickly in the presence of light , heat , or oxygen . If you want to store them longer , then they will last 3-4 month in the freezer . Source : <URL>
Generally , cooked beans keep best frozen , at least if you 're keeping them for more than a day or two . As for what you 'd refrigerate them in to save the to use tomorrow , I 'd suggest either their own liquid ( if you 're going to use it in the recipe ) or drained ( but tightly covered ) . Alternatively , if they 're going to go into some sauce , you could let them marinate in it . A teaspoon of citric acid ( assuming anhydrous , i.e. , dry ) is a fair bit , especially for 1L . That will be very sour . ⅛ tsp citric acid into 1L water is notably sour .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
As you can see at the Chapter 7 : Storage of horticultural crops of the book <URL> : If you look p. 166 ( p. 173 on the PDF ) , you can see that the onions need to be stored in this conditions : between 0-5 ° C with a relative humidity ( R.H. ) of 65-70 % If you look p. 168 ( p. 175 on the PDF ) , you can see that the potatoes have different needs : Fresh market : between 4-7 ° C Processing : between 8-12 ° C seed potatoes : between 0-2 ° C But must of all , potatoes need very highest relative humidity ( R.H. ) : 95-98 % versus 65-70 % for onions So , if you store them together , either one or the other will be in bad storage conditions . Further , as you can see at <URL> : Dry onions ( Group 3 ) are very sensitive to moisture , which makes their storage incompatible with the high R.H. needed for potatoes . New potatoes ( Group 6 ) may also produce ethylene , which will badly damage green onions ( Group 2 ) if stored together . Anyway , storage of horticultural crops can not just be resumed by " do n't put this or that together " , as you may have seen : it is important to consider R.H. , temperature , and many other factors . If the subject interests you , all this ( and many other things ) is pretty well explained in the following references : <URL> <URL> <URL> Ethylene is also a " critical factor " , and this topic is more developped in the following resources : <URL> <URL>
Daniel is spot-on with <URL> . I 'll elaborate on it a bit here . As indicated by his bottled water in the freezer trick , a full freezer is a happy freezer . The same applies to the refrigerator too . While I would n't put random bottles of water throughout my refrigerator , it 's important to know that the fuller your refrigerator is , the more it holds its temperature when opening/closing , and the less energy you 'll use . However , you do n't want to jam pack it so full that there is n't any airflow around your stuff , because this can hamper the cooling efficiency as well . The ideal refrigerator temperature is 35 ° F ( 1.6 ° C ) . You 're not hugging the danger zone like you would be at 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) , and you 're distancing yourself sufficiently from 32 ° F ( 0 ° C ) that you do n't freeze half the stuff in your refrigerator . That said , the temperature within your fridge can vary rather significantly with normal usage . The coldest parts of your refrigerator are the back , and the bottom . The back because the cooling element is there , and the bottom because warm air rises . If items you do n't want frosty are getting frosty , then move them away from the back of the fridge . I would avoid putting items in the door of your fridge that are particularly sensitive to spoilage . The items in the door of your fridge can easily get as high as 59 ° F ( 15 ° C ) , and do so often . Putting milk and eggs in your door will significantly decrease their shelf life . Butter is OK in the little covered section in the door , because the door actually helps keep it 's temperature a little better . You also generally do n't want rock solid frozen butter . So , put your meats on the bottom shelf in the back , your condiments ( mayo , ketchup , mustard , etc. ) in the door , and put everything else where it fits .
I always store mine in the pantry . I use it frequently enough that sprouting is rarely an issue . If you need it to last longer you can freeze garlic , though I have never needed to . Shelf Life An unbroken bulb of garlic can last 3-5 months in a cool ( 55-60 F ) dark place . Once broken , the remaining cloves last only about 7-10 days . Frozen , you can store garlic 10-12 months . Source : <URL>
The standard recommended temperature for a home freezer is 0 ° F ( -18 ℃ ) . Regular ice cream keeps best at -5 ° F to 0 ° F. However , the proper storage temperature for soft serve ice cream is 18 ° F ( -7 ℃ ) . While you could raise the temperature of your freezer to accommodate this , it really would n't be recommended for the rest of your frozen foods . Short of that , your best option would be to get a tiny freezer just for your soft serve so that you can keep it at at higher temperature without risking the quality of your other food .
The true aficionado would claim that you actually do n't store cooked pasta , but for those cases where this is n't viable , you have a few options : Pasta that will be cooled and re-heated later , e.g. left overs Drain well , cool , refrigerate . The pasta will stick , but you can dump it in hot salted water foe a bit to re-heat where it will unstick again . Not perfectly al dente , but probably ok . ( Slightly undercooking pasta can mitigate this a bit . ) Pasta that should stay warm , e.g. on a buffet Add a bit of fat ( olive oil , butter ... ) to coat your pasta . Keeps it from sticking . Critics claim that it also keeps the sauce from sticking to the pasta . Adding the sauce can have a similar effect , but you risk soggy pasta . Pasta that should stay cold , e.g. pasta salad The only case where rinsing pasta is kind of allowed . Side effect : cool pasta ( well drained after rinsing ) can be mixed even with heat-sensitive dressings right away , avoiding stickiness issues again .
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
You may very well be able to make that system work for you , but in the two fine-dining restaurants I 've worked , the system is less paperwork-intensive and more common-sense . It is based on organized storage , adding new product where it will be used after the old , and labeling . This lets you see at a glance what you have and how old it is , rather than having to constantly maintain an up-to-date inventory list . It also makes it easy to find what you want . The system works like so : Organize your storage so food goes in the same spot every day . This way you can find see at a glance what you have and what you need . It also makes it easier to find things . New food of the same type goes behind the old stuff , and is n't opened until the old product is used up . This prevents you from discovering the dreaded Green Milk lurking at the back of the fridge . ALWAYS label prepared food with the date , using masking tape and a permanent marker . Make sure the label ( or container 's expiration date ) is toward the front . You do n't want to have to sniff-test old food . Trust me . Store in clear containers , so you see how much is left . Inventory perishable foods before purchasing more . Toss spoiled or questionable food promptly . This prevents " unpleasant surprises , " and avoids contaminating nearby stuff . Cool food as fast as possible , to prevent bacterial growth . Hot water holds a lot of heat , so it gets pre-chilled in an ice water bath ; otherwise it can stay warm and breed bacteria for HOURS . Containers can be left open for an hour or two in the fridge to cool contents faster . At home , I use a very similar system , with a few modifications : Pre-packaged containers get labelled with an opened-on date , because usually this determines when they spoil more than the expiration date . Expiration dates are just rough estimates . <URL> provides more detailed information , but I do n't refrigerate any kind of leftover more than a week . High-protein foods , or things with egg in them get less time . If it smells even a little off , it 's probably unsafe , with the exception of milk and produce . They will only make you WISH they could kill you . Only buy produce you can use before the next grocery run ... unless it 's really cheap and can be used up easily . Yes , fresh tomatoes are amazing to cook with . They 're slightly less awesome when half of your 5 pounds spoil , unused . Do n't buy fresh meat or fish without a specific meal plan , or at least a schedule for use . This prevents these expensive , perishable foods from sitting in the fridge and spoiling . This does n't have to be a detailed day-by-day meal plan , but the minute you take to think before buying prevents impulse buys and helps make sure you 'll have the time and ingredients to cook the food before it goes bad . I know the last point can be difficult , but remember that a meal plan might be no more than " make myself a nice steak over the weekend . " The idea is to avoid buying meat on Sunday that you wo n't have time to cook until next Friday . If you have to , buy meat right before cooking a nice meal ; at least then it will be fresh . Freezing is also a good backup plan , but only if done fairly early .
My tub of tamarind paste says store in a cool dry place . It should last up to its use by date ( 2 years in my case ) , provided it does n't grow mould .
end question
start question
How to prepare mint for use ?
For something like a drink , I generally bruise the mint and use the whole leaves fresh - rub it between your fingers a bit to release the oils and then just drop it in the drink . The main benefit of this method for me is that a bunch of dry , crumbled mint in a drink is going to make it look very muddled and hard to drink , as you 're constantly getting a mouthful of dried leaves ( you could get around this by steeping it with the dried herbs and then straining it , but that 's too much work ! ) . As a bonus , fresh picked herbs in a nice glass of lemonade , for example , just looks so fresh and tasty ! If I 'm cooking with it and I have a supply of fresh on hand , I prefer to use that . Depending on the dish , it might be whole leaves , but more likely chopped - I actually use kitchen scissors for a lot of fresh herb preparation as it can be easier than a knife in many cases . You certainly can dry it , especially at the end of season when you need to harvest , and use the dried leaves in place of fresh . The main benefit to drying is that it stores really well ; dry also seems to be a bit more powerful , at least when first dried . Over time the flavor of dried herbs will degrade . You usually use a 3 to 1 ratio replacement - if a dish calls for 1 tablespoon of fresh mint , you 'd use 1 teaspoon of dried , though as the dried herbs age you 'll have to increase the amount used over time .
The basic technique that I 've found effective is to " dry fry " them in a pan to allow water to cook off before adding any other wet or fat ingredients , including oil or butter . If you skip this step , you 'll often end up with a bit of a rubbery texture . I recommend cooking them in a small cast-iron pan , but a nonstick pan will do . I usually season with little more than shallots and/or garlic , plus butter , salt and pepper . But I always add the butter after a fair amount of water has been extracted from the mushrooms and cooked off . Chanterelles seem to have a lot more water than most other mushrooms . I have n't verified that scientifically , but I tried following the same technique with button or small crimini mushrooms , and little to no water comes out in dry frying . ( Large crimini mushrooms , also called portabella mushrooms , will give off a fair amount of water when roasted , but nothing quite like fresh chanterelles ) . Shiitake and even oyster mushrooms do n't give off much , either .
Coconut oil is a saturated fat , which makes it solid at room temperature . Above room temperature , it behaves exactly like any other oil and has a very high smoke point . You do n't need to treat it in any special way . I personally just use a knife or spoon to dig a little bit out of the container . Coconut oil is considered to have a neutral flavour ( with the exception of some " virgin " coconut oils ) . It 's much weaker than , say , olive oil . You 'll most likely not be able to detect any coconut flavour from oil alone - you have to use something like creamed coconut ( a common ingredient in satays ) for that . P.S. Although it might appear to be similar to butter or margarine , keep in mind that it is actually a cooking oil , unlike butter which has milk solids that burn , or margarine which is hydrogenated to make it solid . Coconut oil is just barely solid and wo n't always work as a substitute for those other things .
The most obvious difference is that a highball glass is much larger : 8 to 12 ounces as opposed to 4.5 ounces for a martini glass . Cocktails served traditionally in a larger glass usually include a large quantity of mixers , such as a Tom Collins ( served traditionally in a Collins glass , 10-14 oz , though a highball would be appropriate ) , which only contains about 2oz of gin and is topped off with a large quantity of soda water , or a Cuba Libre ( traditionally served in a highball glass ) , which contains mostly Coca-Cola with a small amount of rum . On the other hand , cocktails served traditionally in smaller stemware , such as the Martini , may contain nothing but the alcoholic ingredients ( gin and vermouth ) . Therefore , they require smaller quantities before one would be inebriated , and thus are served in smaller glasses . Furthermore , stemmed glasses keep your hand further from the ( presumably cold ) drink , thus keeping it colder longer , important for drinks traditionally served neat ( whereas a highball would have room for ice ) . If you ask an enthusiast , the shape of the stemware used can be crucial ; for example , red wine apparently tastes better after oxidation , so red wine glasses maximize surface area to increase the amount of wine that oxidizes , while white wines do not oxidize well . Champagne needs to stay bubbly , so a champagne flute tries to minimize the amount of bubbles that escape , while some alcohols have a pleasant aroma and thus benefit from wider glasses like a sherry glass that maximize the amount of aroma that escapes . However , for many average consumers , stemware is stemware is stemware . The differences may or may not be enough to be noticeable to people who are not wine enthusiasts . I would say , if you 're looking to stock a kitchen , get a couple types of stemware you find attractive and improvise rather than trying to make every drink in its own special glass .
I make stir fry all the time and do the same thing as you . I would make extra , enough for 2 - 3 meals . The thing I do to prevent the vegetables from getting too mushy in the refrigerator is by cooking the stirfry about 75 % ( I make sure if I am doing this that the meat is fully cooked first ) and then take out the portion that I intend to refrigerate . This allows me to either finish cooking it in the microwave if I am taking it to work or reheat it up in the stove if I am staying home . Also since I am taking the portions from the upper part of the stirfry , there is less sauce that the vegetables will be steeping in so that should solve your problem of too much sauce . Another thing you should remember is that the types of vegetables you use makes a big difference . If you choose all vegetables that turns really soft when cooked ( onion , squash , peppers ) then reheated stirfry using those vegetables will be not as unpalatable . The trick is to use a variety of textured vegetables . Also I dont want to state the obvious but if your problem is your sauce , have you ever tried using a different ( lighter ) sauce recipe ?
The cheesecake kept for 1 year just fine with no discernible off flavors or other problems . I 'm a homebrewer and we wound up putting the cheesecake into the freezer section of our spare ' beer fridge ' . That freezer is pretty much only used for overflow freezer space , and the refrigerator section is used for beer bottles and kegs , and we have had a few apples in the crispers for most of the year , but that 's it . The freezer section was rarely opened more than once per week . The cheesecake had no off flavors , and only had light water crystallisation on the surface , which was not at all detrimental to our enjoyment of the cake . This was a plain ' real ' cooked cheesecake with graham cracker crust . So , for a ' good enough ' storage method , wrap loosely in foil and store in a freezer that is rarely used , and the cheesecake should be excellent for at least one year .
For Easter , a friend and I cooked rabbits . We marinated for 72 hours in buttermilk , dijon , rosemary , and sage ( NO SALT ) . Then boned them out and spatchcocked them ( sort of a butterfly , with skewers to hold the flat spread out shape ) , seasoned , and roasted at 350 until done . Moist , flavourful . Served with parsnip puree , rosemary potatoes roasted in duck fat , and sorry but I forget the other veg we used .
When they 're still young , I grill them -- trim ends cut into planks about 1/4 " to 3/8 " thick ( ~ 1cm ) toss in olive oil sprinkle with salt grill over direct heat flip when you develop good char marks . pull from the grill once the other side is slightly charred . As they get older , the seed cavity starts developing -- you can cut the sides off , leaving the middle , but it 's just not as sweet .
You could switch to a recipe that uses all of the rice , instead of just infusing it . Here is an example : <URL> .
There are several cola recipes on <URL> . Recipe 2.6 references a kola extract recipe from the following book : Food Flavourings , by Joseph Merory , AVI Publishing Company , 1960 . I 'd assume that the kola nuts are added as in pieces , similar to how they are consumed - Kola nuts are consumed by breaking them open and into pieces .
Regarding your questions : 1 ) How can the bread be cut with the least amount of crumbles ? Traditionally migas de pastor ( shepherd 's migas ) were the result of rubbing a piece or very dry bread with a couple of rough hands . If you do n't rough hands , another way is rubbing 2 halves ( lengthways ) of a bread stick . This way the migas are all crumbs , but those are traditional migas . If you want to chop the bread and have dices of bread to fry : Traditional recipes call for dicing bread the day before you cook migas . I advise you to dice the bread ( size of normal dice would be fine , bigger would be ok too ) when the bread is still soft . Because , if bread is too dry can be even a bit dangerous to chop ... ( does it depend on the bread type , the time the bread has gone stale , should the bread be fresh or completely dry , etc ) Type of bread : Tradicional recipes call for breads such as chiabatta / candeal . These breads have a strong crust . Nowadays , breads like baguette or , if you 're living in Spain , the common " pistolas " are ok too ( and easier to chop / dice too ) . Time for bread going stale : it depends of the real quality of bread and your living location . Meaning : the more artisan the bread is , the longer time time would need to go stale . A common bread is normally not so good , so it really depends where you live . Regarding your location : If you live close to the sea , bread would go even softer , like chewing gum , do n't expect like stone-stale bread . If you live in a drier environment , it will get dry and stale in a couple of days . I would wait much time , because believe me it is really difficult to chop and dice when bread gets very dry . Therefore , experience is the key for every migas cook ! I know it 's not very exact , but that 's the way it is ... About purchasing the bread fresh or not : In Spain , in places where migas are a very common dish , you can find diced migas ready to fry in a normal supermarket . Outside these regions , you would only find normal " fresh " bread . How can you fry the bread in such a way that the outside is fried and the inside is moist ? ( is there an amount of water that can be measured , how hot should the pan be , which pan should be used , how much oil should be used ) Water and oil needed : Any spanish granny would say that there is no measure for this ... crazy , huh ? I found some recipes which call for 1 glass of water ( 250 ml ) per half bread stick . Some recipes say to wait 12 hours to moisture bread , some others do n't ... Oil : this is really your choice . I advise to cover the base of a frying pan with olive oil and some garlic cloves , when it is hot , add the diced bread and cover bread with oil . If you see oil has n't moisture all the bread in the pan , add some more , little by little . Greasy migas are not so good ... About the pan : it is better to use a pan like <URL> , not so deep not so flat either . Oh , and you did n't say anything about chorizo or panceta ( fresh bacon ) . Without them migas are not real ;) Fried them before adding to the migas . Hope this helps !!
<URL> . For both Camembert and Brie . Next time do n't buy it ...
Dredging in lightly salted cornmeal and then frying ( shallow frying is fine , but deep frying is magical ) is an absolute classic in the Southern US , where catfish eating is big . I usually just put the plain filets in the cornmeal without first dipping in egg or milk . I do n't think it 's necessary -- though I 'd go with milk if I were forced to use something . After dredging , I let them sit on a wire rack for a minute or so before frying to set the cornmeal ( which I would do if using egg or milk also ) . Generally , though , most treatments that work for a mild , tender white fish will work . Recipes for flounder or sole ( Sole a la Meuniere for example ) , or ones that look for rockfish or striped bass will work really well . Bear in mind that catfish does have a distinctive flavor , though it 's not really strong . Some people do n't care for it , and they tend to describe it as " muddy " tasting . Personally , I do n't see it . If you like the catfish OK , but find the flavor intrusive in some applications , adding spicyness or acid ( lemon juice , vinegar ) will mute it .
Stevia leaves are commonly cut , then hung for drying , then either ground up into little flakes and used sparingly in drinks such as teas or recipes . The leaves themselves are also very commonly used unground as garnish in drinks as well as added to recipes . Just remember to compensate accordingly for the extra sweetness they will provide , and you really cant go wrong with some experimentation at first . In terms of a particular recipe I 'm not really sure what to recommend so hopefully this is still helpful .
Doner kebab is A ) not a single joint of meat and B ) cooked in slices , so attempting to get anything similar with the technique you described is a triumph of optimism over reality I 'm afraid . As Gary suggests , lamb/mutton shoulder requires long , slow cooking , but this will not yield a doner-like result in terms of texture . I would rub the lamb with plenty of spices , cumin , coriander , garlic etc and olive oil . Make small cuts in the meat and really massage the spices in . Place the lamb in a roasting tin and cover with foil . Get the oven as hot as it will go , put the lamb in , and turn it down to 150C . Cook for 4 hours and the meat will fall off the bone . Pull to shreds and serve in pitta breads with yoghurt , salad , onions and chilli sauce . Voila !
If you 're going to be using a ricer , just halve the potatoes -- you can then put them cut side-down into the ricer , and then press -- the skin will be left behind . ( I 'd still give them a quick scrub before boiling them , though ) . Of course , this is easier , but not necessarily faster as it 'll take longer for the potatoes to cook through . If you bake them , just clean , bake , then cut in half , and put through the ricer . ( Again , not really that much faster ) . If you 're cooking red potatoes , even if you 're not using a ricer , there 's no need to peel them beforehand , as you can boil them whole , then rub the skin off with a dry towel . ( of course , for red potatoes , they 're always going to be lumpy , and have texture , so in that case , I tend to leave the skins on ) . To reduce the overall time , if I 'm going to be going for a smooth mash : Only use large potatoes . Save the smaller ones for applications where you do n't need to peel potatoes . Cut the potatoes into slabs . There 's no need to get them to cubes . I tend to go to about 2cm ( ~ 3/4 " ) thick . Any extra cooking time is made up for by reduced cutting / transfering bits to the pot / dealing with the chunk that fell and rolled under the cabinet / etc. . Start the water warming while you 're peeling . You do n't want to place the potatoes into boiling water , but you can take some of the chill off it . Toss a few cloves of garlic ( whole , but paper removed , end trimmed off ) in with the potatoes , so you do n't have to season afterwards . Use stock rather than milk . I keep boxed vegetable and chicken stocks at room temp , not chilled , so I do n't have to heat it up first to deal with the issues of it cooling down the starches too fast . Decide if the ricer 's really worth it -- I get good results just tossing everything back into the same pot after straining , hit 'em with a potato masher , add some liquid , then go through a few more times . It saves a lot of cleanup , but it might not be exactly the texture you 're used to ,
Genuine fajitas are made with skirt steak . The most important thing you can do when making fajitas is marinate appropriately . That recipe calls for a dismally short marination time ( 30 mins to an hour ) . When I make fajitas I marinate them a minimum of 4 hours , though typically overnight . I usually use a combination of soy sauce , lime juice , garlic , olive oil and salt in a zip-loc bag . Another thing to be aware of is how you slice the meat . If you bought your fajita meat presliced from a good butcher , then chances are he cut it properly - against the grain . If it 's a random supermarket butcher you may or may not have had it cut properly . If you cut the meat yourself , make sure you slice it across the grain , otherwise you 'll be chewing some very tough long proteins . Also , as with any meat , do n't overcook it . Medium rare is just fine for a skirt steak . Some people will substitute a flank steak for a skirt steak when making fajitas . Flank tends to be a little less tough , but not as flavorful . The above marination and cutting guidelines apply to flank steak as well . Update - I also notice that the recipe suggests 3-4 minutes per side for medium rare . This does n't sound right to me if the grill is on high heat . Skirt and flank steaks are rather thin and 2 minutes per side on a hot grill should be medium-rare . Also , make sure you let it rest . I usually rest any steak for 5 minutes , not 3 as the recipe suggests .
Do n't reuse an old milk jug for storing the new , combined milk . The standard plastics used in milk jugs in most areas can not be properly sanitized for reuse ( even with standard sanitizing solutions ) . Instead , use a properly sanitized and covered glass or plastic container , preferably one that you clean in a hot water dish washer . Milk stored in a properly cleaned container will have the maximum shelf life ( and reduced chance of other contaminants ) .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
There are many ways to do it , so it is personal choice . Here is a <URL> if you need to know more . Here is how I do it . You are going to need two forks and a knife . STEP 1 Place the prickly pear on a cutting board or a plate using a fork by firmly pushing the fork lengthwise into the skin of the prickly pear STEP 2 With a sharp edge knife , cut of the two end of the prickly pear . STEP 3 Now , cut through the skin lengthwise . The skin is quite thick , so you need to make a deep cut . STEP 4 With the second fork , pull away the skin on one side from the inside of the fruit as far as you can STEP 5 Now , firmly hold the fruit with the second fork by inserting the second fork into flesh of the fruit . STEP 6 Remove the first fork and use that to peel away the rest of the skin from the flesh of the fruit . STEP 7 The inside of the fruit is now free from the skin , so you can remove it . Place it on a clean plate STEP 8 Discard the rests , and properly rinse all the utensils under running water before cleaning the next fruit Other tips : Wearing welding gloves also works well to handle the fruit To remove most of the thorns before hand , hold the fruit lengthwise between your fingers and gently rub the skin over loose sand . Rinse with water afterwards . Be careful when removing the gloves A bottle brush or nail brush can also be used . Wearing gloves , hold the prickly pear in one hand while you scrubbing the skin of the fruit with the bottle brush/nail brush . Rinse under running water . In both of the above cases , you still need to treat the fruit as you normally would as if it would still have thorns on .
end question
start question
How do I cook a cottage pie from chilled ?
It 's very difficult to give an answer , as the size and shape of the casserole can greatly affect the reheating time . I 've found to get the best results , I start the casserole covered in a cold oven ( put it in the oven , then turn the heat on ) , and cook it at low heat ( 300 ° F / 150 ° C ) until it 's heated through . Once it 's up to temperature , I uncover the dish and turn the oven to broil ( called ' grill ' in some areas ... when only the top element is on at very high heat ) , and brown the top . If you need to , once the dish is warmed through , you can turn the oven down to its lowest setting and hold it there until you 're near time to serve it . ( it only takes a few minutes to brown the top , especially if you adjust the oven rack so the casserole is an inch or so ( 2.5 cm ) from the heating element ) I 'd probably give myself an hour minimum to heat it , preferably 1.5 hours , and 2 hours if it 's an especially large dish .
Things to try Rice should still be warm Handle rice gently , do n't squeeze it Does it fall apart because it is sticking to your hands ? If so : Use warm salt water on your hands ( not dripping wet hands though ) Rinse the rice more before cooking to remove excess surface starches . The process is : Rinse in bowl of water , gently tumble , let stand 20 minutes , change water . Repeat until rinse water runs clear If this still fails to solve this sticky issue , you can use cling film ( plastic wrap ) as a guide and release agent on your hands . Peel the plastic off as you wrap the nori on
Usually when I 've made them I just put sauce on top , not on the bottom , and just down the middle so the edges are exposed . And I make the sauce on the thick side so it is not too watery . I bake them in the oven too , and they are never too soggy , but you could just grill to minimise the sauce absorption . I 've heard that corn tortillas are more resistant to going soggy than flour ones , but could n't comment from experience .
The easiest way to prevent meringue from weeping is by adding a teaspoon of cornstarch to the recipe , which will absorb the excess moisture that causes it . If you 're a bit adventurous , you can also opt to sprinkle some cookie crumbs over your filling so when it weeps , the crumbs will absorb the moisture .
You can , but the surface-to-mass ratio means that the outer layers will overcook well before the inside is cooked , so unless you 're interested in that texture , your two main options are : Steam them ( add some liquid , then put a lid on it ) Cut them smaller . ( halve or quarter before you saute ) I tend to halve smaller ones , and quarter larger ones , cutting through the stem each time so they do n't fall completely apart while cooking ( after trimming a little off the stem if it 's showing signs of drying out ) . Then saute 'til the outside has browned a little bit , and hit with salt and whatever spices ( or bacon ... dice up some bacon and render the fat while you cut up the sprouts , then use the fat for cooking the sprouts )
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
Older goat tends to have a very strong flavor , hence why many suggest braising in strong flavors . You can braise your kid following these recipes - just remember to use 3/4th the amount of strong seasonings as you would for a regular goat . As for grilling the meat , you could try to marinate the meat overnight with herbs and spices . Unlike chicken , which is a fairly blank canvas taste-wise , goat has a strong taste ( even kid meat has a slight gamey/goat-y flavor ) . As I said , if grilling , marinate . If you 're braising or stewing , toss in a beer , some mint or basil and a few other herbs . For the ribs - you could french them to get rid of some of the connective tissue and then marinate and roast them at low heat for a few hours to break down some of the connective tissue . Good luck and great eating !
In my experiment , blue potatoes were substitutable for Yukon Golds . However : Blue potatoes are smaller than Yukon Golds . Therefore , cooking time should be lessened by a between half to a third , particularly when parboiling . Rather than having the subtle creamy flavor of Yukons , Blue potatoes have a distinctly nutty flavor . This flavor may drown out more subtle flavors that are common to recipes calling for Yukon Golds .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
Three potential methods or changes you can try : soak the quail in brine for 2-3 hours before searing . You can do this in a large zip-lock sack or in a covered bowl . Make sure to store the quail/brine combo in your refrigerator during the soaking . Let quail reach room temperature before cooking . Pan-searing the quail might dry out the smaller pieces , i.e. the bony wings or legs . Try your 20-minutes cooking in a very hot oven , making sure not to burn or sear the quail too much . Similar to cooking a turkey , cover the thinner pieces with foil so they dry out more slowly . Ultimate method : use a " Sous Vide " method - you basically seal the quail and your flavorful broth in a vacuum seal bag , making sure to get as much air out as possible before sealing . Then you slow-cook the bag + contents in a Sous Vide hot-water bath . Instead of buying an expensive/French Sous Vide cooker , just follow these steps for very similar results : <URL> Note : to get a good finish , after cooking the quail to tender in a Sous Vide bath , you can sear the quail a little bit with a cook 's blow-torch ( for good presentation ) or just pan sear it quickly in a hot pan .
Braising gently in milk will also , I find , help with bitterness . The radicchio becomes wonderfully succulent , very nice with a firm-fleshed fish .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
A souffle by any other name will fall as quick . ( Sorry , I could n't resist ) . But this is absolutely normal , there is nothing in this recipe to support the structural integrity of cooling air bubbles . You can reduce the amount of rising , which will result in a smaller collapse . To do this , beat the mixture less ( prepare it by hand instead with a mixer to be sure ) and ensure slower , more even heating in the oven . But of course , the collapse will occur . There is some advice floating around which is supposed to reduce the falling rate of souffles . You could try following it even if your recipe does n't involve whipping the eggwhites . It involves things like not crowding the oven and carefully buttering the form , usually with layers of butter and sugar ( or parmesan for savory souffles ) . It wo n't hurt to use them . But do n't expect a risen pudding after it has cooled . Update . I read Charlotte Farley 's answer and thought that it would be great if it works . I had a hunch that it might not , but it would be so awesome if it helps ! So I made the experiment . I made the bread pudding exactly per the recipe given here . I did n't separate the eggs , but took care to whip them for a long time before adding the milk , to ensure a good rise . I baked it in silicon muffin cups , exactly 5 gram of bread and 45 gram of egg mixture per cup . After 45 min at 150 ° C , I quickly removed three cups from the oven and left the remaining three cups there for another 45 min . As a control , I used a simple cheese souffle ( basically a mornay sauche with whipped egg whites ) and repeated the procedures , using 50 g mixture per cup and baking for 20 min at 175 ° C . The results : These are the bread puddings . The directly removed are in the lower row , the ones which remained in the oven are in the upper row . I did n't measure them , but they are nearly the same height . In the oven , all had risen maybe 1 cm over the cup edges , so they all lost ~ 50 % of their oven height . The first group collapsed the second they were out of the oven , the others deflated slowly in the oven , but were already low when I took them out . I weighed both groups after cooling . The " direct from the oven group " weighed 116 g , or 11.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . The " left in oven group " weighed 101 g , or 16.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . When I tried them , I liked the moister ones better , but both groups were OK . Neither was unacceptably dry or egg-white-rubbery . These are the cheese soufflés . They rose more in the oven , to maybe 2.5-3 cm above the cup edges . Again , directly removed ones are in the bottom row , the oven cooled ones are in the top row . There is no visible difference , they all seem deflated to the same size . The weight results are similar as in the bread pudding case : 122 g for the three directly removed souffles , 109 g for the oven cooled ones . Again , I felt that the moister ones tasted better , but this could be a subjective preference . I would n't consider the oven-cooled ones " bad " on their own . Conclusion : The slow oven cooling does n't work :( Estimated 5000 calories worth of egg dishes plus a small package of American bread ( opened ) available for free , collect in person only .
Empty the water from inside the coconut , as this is not the milk you want . Crack open your coconut and scrape out the meat . In a blender , take about half your meat and roughly 1 1/2 cups of hot water ( more or less depending on your desired thickness ) , and process . Repeat step 3 with the other half of the meat . Place a few layers of cheesecloth over a bowl and strain the milk through . Wrap up the cheesecloth and squeeze the rest of the milk out . No special press or tools needed . However , some sort of press could help get the last few drops out when squeezing the mass through the cheesecloth . I do n't think the water necessarily has to be hot . Some sources say to just use water , while other say hot . You may also want to start out with just 1/2 cup water and see how much it yields . Keep in mind : coconuts are n't super juicy . So expect the yield to be roughly equivalent to the amount of water used . The flesh is still perfectly usable , but its applications may be limited based on how much you processed it ( in terms of size ) . <URL> has the step-by-step I used with a few ( albeit not very helpful ) pictures .
Just treat them as you would corned beef . I like the pressure cooker method
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
There are a couple tricks I 've learned from Cook 's Illustrated about making oven fries : Soak your cut potatoes in warm water to rinse off excess surface starch . Drain them and dry them very well ( I use a salad spinner and paper towels ) . Use a heavy duty sheet pan on the bottom rack of a hot oven to focus the heat on crisping the bottoms of the potatoes . Oil your sheet pan well , and sprinkle salt on it . This will act kind of like ball bearings under the potatoes to prevent them from sticking too hard . For the first 5-10 minutes , tightly wrap the sheet pan ( with the potatoes ) with aluminum foil . This will essentially steam the potatoes and help get a really nice creamy interior . After that , remove the foil and flip the potatoes halfway through . Make sure you use a thin metal spatula when you flip them . These techniques work well for potatoes in general , and really do turn out some fantastic spuds .
You would use the flat bottom spoon as you would use a regular spoon . The main different between the flat-bottom spoon and western spoons is as you can see the flat bottom and the fact that the flat bottom spoons are usually bigger and can hold more liquid . I 'm not sure why it would be awkward to use it compared to a regular spoon . You do n't need to stick the whole spoon in your mouth . There is a rounded edge around the spoon before it is flat . You put just the rounded portion of the spoon into your mouth and drink from it . The reason for the larger spoon probably stems from the fact that many Asian soups have noodles and large chuncks of vegetables and meats in it . Using a western spoon , you would get some of the noodle or meat and have little room for the broth . But with the larger flat bottom spoon you can get the noodle , meat and still fit an appropriate amount of broth on the spoon . EDIT : Also note that it is common practice to use the flat bottom spoon and the chopsticks simulataneously while eating a bowl of noodle soup . One would use the chopsticks in their dominant hand ( right hand lets assume ) . They would then use their left hand to use the spoon . As you have probably experienced in your life unless you are ambidexterous , using the left hand to do thing you normally do with the right can be hard . With the flat bottom , there is less chance of spilling than with a traditional rounded spoon .
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
This can be a hard one to get right . There are three important phases of baking these : An brief initial high heat phase A longer lower heat phase A brief slow cooling phase For the initial phase I go with 400 ℉ for 15 minutes . The high heat provides a rapid rise with a hollow center . For the second phase I reduce the heat to 350 ℉ for 30-40 minutes . This phase allows the shells to firm up and dries out the center . At this point you should cut one of them in half and see how moist the center is . It 's important that the center of the dough be as dry as possible here , having an undercooked center is what causes the dough to deflate . A little bit of moisture is ok . For the final phase , turn the oven off and let them cool with the door ajar for 10-15 minutes . With the door fully open the rapid cooling can also trigger deflation .
end question
start question
How to consistently get golden beads on meringue topping ?
That 's your meringue weeping . You could either make a very unstable meringue , which will weep uncontrollably , or you can replicate the effect with caramelised sugar - the latter is probably better for consistency and not-having-a-sloppy-mess-on-top-of-your-cheesecakeness .
Whether or not charcoal tastes different/better is actually a bit of a debate . I 've been a propane griller for years and now I use charcoal not for the taste , but because frankly , I like to play with fire . But lets assume that there is a taste difference , identify where the differences comes from , and how to address them : The smoke from charcoal . This is ( if you 've been using natural lump charcoal ) pretty much just wood smoke . If you 've been using briquettes you 'll also get the smoke of the filler and such , but generally this is n't desirable and we do n't want to replicate it . For smoke on a gas grill - you can use something like <URL> . Fill it with wood chips and place it over a burner , it should start smoking . Vapor from the food drippings hitting the coals , and rising back up to flavor the food . This used to be a big advantage to charcoal , but its largely minimized by new gas grills with ' vapor bars ' . As long as your grill has one of these , you 're in luck . Otherwise , there 's not a good , safe way to replicate it - but odds are you have it . Its a long bar usually running the length of burners . Lighter fluid taste . Another undesirable flavor if you 're doing a particular ( and not good IMO ) kind of charcoal grilling . Frankly , its not one you 're likely to miss . Those are the main tastes and how to replicate them . Nowadays the biggest is definitely # 1 , but it only matters if you doing foods that cook for a significant length of time or are especially ' porous ' . If you 're doing hot dogs and chicken breasts , I would n't bother if smoke . If you 're doing burgers - maybe/probably . If you 're doing thick steaks , thick pork chops , a whole chicken , or anything that 's going on awhile , then creating some smoke is definitely worth it . ( " Liquid smoke " definitely does n't taste like the real thing . )
Your ratio of butter to cookie is probably the main problem here : using too much butter and refrigerating it overnight will give your crust the texture of ... well ... refrigerated butter . So , change the recipe and use one of the following options : Lightly soak the cookies in coffee/tea/lemonade / Cognac/whatever liquid is to your taste . Use less volume of butter and add the same volume of cookies . Powder the cookies in a blender Use a mixture of oil and butter ( take one with a neutral taste like grape-seed oil ) . Test out a few spoonfuls in some shot glasses ( 50/50 , 60/40 , ... until you get the texture you want ) You can also combine the above , but that would be riskier : change one parameter at a time ... Can I have a piece of that perfect blueberry cheesecake now ? :-)
Honeycomb can be made with honey or molasses but the flavor will not be the same . There is n't a US equivalent - we have molasses , but it 's darker . You can substitute corn syrup in recipes where it is n't the principal ingredient , but here that would not work . That being said , my local grocery store has a British food section which carries golden syrup . You probably do n't have to substitute , you just need to find it in your local grocer .
That 's your meringue weeping . You could either make a very unstable meringue , which will weep uncontrollably , or you can replicate the effect with caramelised sugar - the latter is probably better for consistency and not-having-a-sloppy-mess-on-top-of-your-cheesecakeness .
I do n't know your exact prep but the best thing you could do is bring your dough to a completely thawed state , store bought will work fine . Make sure you beef is at room temperature before doing a quick sear , this will not only add flavor but will give you a layer of protection . Another problem that can occur is the puff pastry releases some steam and it needs some way to escape . After you have wrapped your piece of meat , take a knife and make small slits in it with the tip of a sharp knife . This will help release the steam and should take away the moisture . 425 degrees would be a good temperature to cook at and you should hit your ideal around 40 to 45 minutes . Hope this helps and let me know how to it turns out .
A big factor besides the dough is the temperature at which you bake the bread . If you are not baking it at some recipe specified temperature you are probably playing on the safe side and your breads wo n't raise much . You have to heat the CO2 pockets quickly so that they expand before the dough hardens . The more temperature you can give it the better . Another possible factor may be the yeast . Are you waiting enough ? Are you using enough ? Like temperature , more yeast and longer fermentation times ca n't go wrong .
You can not make good hummus from canned chickpeas , you should make it from fresh dried beans The beans need plenty of soaking and rinsing When cooking , add one tsp of baking soda per cup of beans . Baking soda chemically softens the bean proteins . Never add salt or other flavourings during the bean cooking stage Traditional hummus is somewhat coarse , but very soft ( due to baking soda ) . It is made with a minimal amount of olive oil , but drizzled with olive oil and a sprinkle of cooked , and still warm chick peas when served Restaurant hummus is often just over processed junk made in a factory with a commercial grinder ( like a peanut butter grinder ) Also , see <URL> if your chickpeas never go soft
This is a little hard to do without making an epic mess . First , lay out a big piece of parchment or wax paper to catch the sprinkles that you are about to throw everywhere . Place your cake on it 's platter over the parchment paper and tilt it so that you can apply sprinkles to the uppermost side . Do n't tilt it so far that it slides off ! Apply the sprinkles with your free hand , pressing them gently into the frosting ( some suggest wearing a glove , I do n't ) . Turn , and repeat . Periodically collect all your sprinkles from the parchment paper .
The texture is controlled simply by time ; 2 hours is n't enough . Try 3 to 4 hours . Or use a pressure cooker , it goes much faster in there - about 45 minutes should do it .
You need to warm them up a bit . There are a number of ways to do this 20 or 30 seconds on a griddle ( or a <URL> if you have one ) wrap a stack in foil and place in 325 oven for until warm wrap a stack in a clean towel and steam them using a steamer slightly moisten a towel and wrap it around a stack and microwave them for a bit If you 've warmed them and they are still tearing then your tortillas are no longer fresh .
For a chewy pizza base , use bread flour . Do not use oil . Bread flour has a higher protein content that will help gluten form . Gluten makes the connections that keep dough together . Fat inhibits gluten formation . A recipe of just water , flour , salt , and yeast mixed , kneaded , allowed to rise until doubled , and then rolled out will get you what you want . Make sure to roll out quite thin . Preheat your oven absolutely as high as it goes with a stone inside . Put your toppings on maximum one minute before they go into the oven so that the sauce does not make your dough soft . Place pizza on preheated pizza stone - cooking time at high temperatures will be quite short ( max 10 minutes ) .
Assuming you are n't very unlucky and happen to download a series of bad recipes I think it 's one of a few things . It 's possible you could be undercooking your goods . Fully cooked baked goods should not taste like flour . It 's also possible that you could be mixing insufficiently . If this were the case though you 'd likely have some cookies that were n't floury . The most likely culprit though is packed flour . If you are using volume measurements ( most likely given the source ) for flour , it 's quite possible to use nearly twice as much flour as the recipe intends simply because your flour is packed down more than the author 's was . I recommend using either a food processor or a sifter to sift your flour adequately before measuring . Do n't undo your sifting by rapping your measuring cup on the counter either ! Simply scoop , scrape to level and dump it in the mixing bowl . See Also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Dark sesame seeds are more common in Indian cooking . I personally think that they have a more intense taste . They are also smaller , for what little difference that makes . I would n't rush to use them to make tahini , because the color would be surprising and I suspect that the flavor would be a bit bitter .
Draining the juice , refilling the jar with oil and then storing to reduce the acidity wo n't work because : Acid and lye can be diluted only with water or liquids like water ( if I remember correctly , ethanol will also work ) but not oil . You might run into the risk of botulism . ( Maybe not since the mushrooms are sour . If you do n't measure the pH you ca n't be sure ) . The only thing you can do is to soak the portion of mushrooms you intend to eat in water before eating . Replacing the brine with water of the whole jar beforehand to lower the pH will shorten the shelf life significantly .
A cappuccino is probably not what you want to try latte art on . The amount of froth in a cap will probably cause the milk to be too thick to pour with . You want to start with your milk texture . You want stretch the milk and texture it so that it is suitable for a latte or maybe even a flat white . Correct micro foam will be integrated with the milk . It wo n't float on top . The surface will appear shiny and it will have the consistency of cream . For a free pour this is really important . Crema can also be your enemy . If your beans are too fresh , it can be a bit difficult to cut through . You can swirl your cup . You can also break it up a bit with your milk since you wo n't start pouring immediately . Once you can get your milk texture right , a good way to start is with some basic shapes . It can be useful to have a jug with a pronounced spout . 1 ) A basic dot in the middle of your cup . As you get to the top of your cup , tilt your jug a bit more to let the foam push the crema out of the way . 2 ) Basic heart . Same as the dot . But instead of just stopping the pour , push through the dot and slow the pour down quickly at the same time . 3 ) Layered dot . Starts like your basic dot . But as you increase the pour rate , wiggle your jug left and right smoothly . This will pull coffee in between the layers of the milk . Then just stop pouring . 4 ) Layered heart . Same as the layered dot , but pull through the dot like the basic heart . 5 ) The Rosetta . This is probably the iconic latte art pattern . This uses the skills of your layered heart . But you start your pour from the back of the cup with relatively large wiggles , then start to pull back and make your wiggles smaller . This gives you the curls at one end of the cup and the tapering " leaves " at the other . To finish , pull through like a heart . Other patterns are then variations on these themes . Like the tulip , swan , multiple hearts , multiple rosettas . And some combine free pouring with a bit of etching eg . smoking dog , pac man . Edit : This is how I learned to froth milk for a standard jug . The jug should be at an angle so that you can form a whirlpool . The tip of your steam wand should be just under the surface of the milk . Then turn on the steam . So I stretch very quickly and then spend the rest of the time texturing . You should n't be moving your jug up or down very much if at all .
Assuming that you want to serve the casserole hot and the streusel crispy , keep the casserole and the streusel separate until almost serving time . This means you will have to bake the streusel on a cookie sheet until crisp and ready , then let them cool uncovered and transport them in a separate container . Your casserole base contains eggs , so it must be baked . You want to avoid a " skin " or " crust " , so cover with foil at least part of the time or even the whole 30 minutes . ( Depends a bit on how wet the mash is . ) Depending on the logistics at the destination , either keep your casserole warm in your carrier or pop it in the microwave for a bit to gently ( ! ) reheat it . The right time to put the streusel on top of the base is a short while before serving - long enough that the hot mash can warm them up and that they can get a tiny bit soft at the bottom ( more authentic ! ) while staying crisp on top . A few minutes should suffice , but a quarter of an hour would still be fine . But keep the casserole uncovered .
Lucky you . I usually have all the shoulders split in two , cured and smoked , hocks and shanks smoked , belly smoked ( bacon ) . Some roasts and the rest into chops and steaks . Your cut and wrap ( butcher ) will put things up the way you ask , so have him put up meal size bits . The usual way to receive custom cut and wraped meat is frozen , have n't heard of anyone getting it fresh . . there 's just too much of it . I like my pigs between 105 - 110 kilos/230 -240 pounds on the hoof ; seems to give the right lean/fat ratio . They grow them much fatter in some places , China is one . You can have the shoulders left whole , that is a fairly large cut of meat though , better to have them cut into hams and picnics . Have them cut your shanks and hocks up a bit too . Custom cut and wrap outfits that are good are very good , some of them make excellent sausage , which brings this consideration into the mix , I would recommend trying the sausage you are thinking of having made first . Finally , the smoke on your very own pig parts will totally blow any other smoked pork product flavors out of the water , there is just no comparison . enjoy :)
This is a theoretical answer based on several publications and it would require actual experimental tests . The most probable tip seems to maintain your sourdough at 32 ° C as it will affect facultatively heterofermentative lactobacilli present in your sourdough . A lot of spread knowledge provides , without explanation , several tips such as : feed your starter more regularly , use more starter , add baking soda , use white flour , add baker 's yeast , rest your dough at cooler temperature , etc. . Wikipedia <URL> a <URL> by Debra Wink to assert : Conversely , a wetter and warmer starter has more bacterial activity and less yeast growth , with more lactic acid relative to acetic acid . Debra Wink 's post is a quite detailed theory of what 's going on with lactic and acetic acid productions in sourdough based on several research papers . The temperature argument is not so clear and seems to be based on so-called baker 's rule that low temperatures ( 20 -- 26 ° C ) are better for yeast growth . Indeed , this paper argues that you will need a warm temperature ( 90 ° F or 32 ° C ) and enough humidity as these are the optimal conditions for the growth of lactobacilli , and you need to slow the growth of yeast . While some yeast species ( such as <URL> ) grow faster within 20 -- 26 ° C range , the optimum temperature for growth of <URL> , the species of baker 's yeast , is supposed to be <URL> . And more importantly , yeast does not produce acetic acid or lactic acid , it only produces ethanol ( alcohol ) and CO2 . All acids are produced by bacteria . Lactic acid is produced by <URL> and to increase the lactic acid to acetic acid ratio , it seems you will indeed need to favor lactobacilli growth , hence the temperature argument . However , details are more complex . There are three kinds of lactobacilli : obligately homofermentative , producing two lactic acid molecules per 6-carbon sugars ; obligately heterofermentative , producing one lactic acid molecule , and one ethanol molecule and one CO2 molecule per 6-carbon sugars ( or just lactic acid and ethanol for lactobacilli able to ferment pentoses ) ; facultatively heterofermentative , chosing either path depending on availability of sugars and required energy . Facultatively heterofermentative lactobacili will apparently choose the homofermentative path ( produce only lactic acid ) at higher temperature . Acetic acid is a by-product of the metabolism of heterofermentative path : whether you end up with ethanol ( CH3CH2OH ) or acetic acid ( CH3COOH ) depends on the availability of co-substrates . Obviously , you might consider having only homofermentative lactobacilli , or facultatively heterofermentative lactobacilli in a warmer environment , yet you might not be able to choose your starter with this precision in your kitchen . Indeed , the issue seems to concern obligatively heterofermentative lactobacilli including Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis , which has been extensively studied as it is part of common sourdough . According to the post mentioned above , it will produce acetic acid by co-metabolizing fructose with maltose . However , Henry Ng , in a <URL> referenced by this post , found that limiting oxygen will limit the amount of acetic acid in a sourdough composed of Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis . In fact , this paper established Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis as an obligatively heterofermentative lactobacilli . Furthermore , <URL> , another author being referred to , oxygen is the co-substrate for acetic acid , Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis will reduce fructose to mannitol , not to acetic acid , and the amount of oxygen is limited anyway ( unless you shake it as Henry Ng 's team did ) . Consequently , the production of lactic acid appears to be the principal factor of the lactic to acetic acid ratio . Please note that this author stresses that you do need acetic acid in your sourdough : Spicher says that a ratio of 20 acetate to 80 lactate is optimal . [ ... ] The acetic acid is furthermore important as growth of spoilage organisms such as molds or rope causing bacilli ( Bacillus subtilis ) is inhibited by high acetic acid concentrations .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
end question
